FORT PIERRE, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. - -, passed - -
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Elected Officials
Mayor                    Gloria Hanson
Council member Ward I    Greg Kenzy
Council member Ward I    Larry Cronin
Council member Ward II   Scott Deal
Council member Ward II   Callie Iversen
Council member Ward III  Rick Cronin
Council member Ward III  Todd Bernhard
Appointed Officials
Finance Officer          Roxanne Heezen
Director of Public Works Rick Hahn
City Attorney            Tieszen Law Office official
CHARTER
Section
Preamble 
Article I. Powers of the City
   
1.01   Powers of the City
   
1.02   Construction
   
1.03   Intergovernmental relations
   
1.04   Limitations
   
1.05   New taxes
Article II. City Council
   
2.01   General powers and duties
   
2.02   Composition, eligibility, terms, bond required, designation of areas of
responsibility, powers and duties
   
2.03   Mayor
   
2.04   Compensation; expenses
   
2.05   Prohibitions
   
2.06   Vacancies; forfeiture of office; filling of vacancies
   
2.07   Judge of qualifications
   
2.08   Finance Officer
   
2.09   Investigations
   
2.10   Independent audit
   
2.11   Procedure
   
2.12   Action requiring an ordinance
   
2.13   Ordinances and resolutions in general
   
2.14   Emergency ordinances
   
2.15   Codes of technical regulations
   
2.16   Authentication and recording; codification; printing
Article III. Departments, Officers and Agencies
   
3.01   General provisions
   
3.02   Legal officer
Article IV. Financial Procedures
   
4.01   Fiscal year
   
4.02   Submission of budget and budget message
   
4.03   Budget
   
4.04   City Council action on budget
   
4.05   Appropriation and revenue ordinances
   
4.06   Amendments after adoption
   
4.07   Lapse of appropriations
   
4.08   Administration of budget
   
4.09   Overspending of appropriations prohibited
   
4.10   Public records
Article V. Elections 
   
5.01   City elections
   
5.02   Initiative and referendum
Article VI. Fort Pierre Municipal Utilities 
   
6.01   Management and control of Fort Pierre Municipal Utilities
Article VII. General Provisions
   
7.01   Conflicts of interest
   
7.02   Prohibitions
Article VIII. Charter Amendment
   
8.01   Proposal of amendment
   
8.02   Election
   
8.03   Adoption of amendment
Article IX. Transition/Separability Provision
   
9.01   Officers and employees
   
9.02   Departments, offices and agencies
   
9.03   Pending matters
   
9.04   State and municipal laws
   
9.05   Schedule
   
9.06   Separability
PREAMBLE
   We the people of the City of Fort Pierre, in order to establish a more
representative and effective city government, do adopt this Charter in
accordance with the Home Rule authority granted in Article IX, Section 2 of the
South Dakota Constitution and the procedural requirements of SDCL 6-12.
ARTICLE I. POWERS OF THE CITY
§ 1.01 POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The City shall have all powers it may now or hereafter be possible for a
municipal corporation in this State to exercise in harmony with the
Constitutions of this State and of the United States. It is the intention of
this Charter to confer upon the City every power that it would have if the
powers were specifically mentioned. The City shall have every power except
those specifically denied by this Charter, the Constitution or the general laws
of the State.
§ 1.02 CONSTRUCTION.
   This Charter shall be construed liberally in favor of the City and the
specific mention of particular municipal powers in other Sections of this
Charter does not limit the powers of the City to those so mentioned.
§ 1.03 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS.
   The City may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions and
may participate in the financing thereof, jointly or in cooperation, by
contract or otherwise with any one (1) or more states or any of their state
divisions or agencies, or the United States or any of its agencies or any
township, county, municipality, school district, tribal entity or other
governmental subdivision or non-profit organizations.
   The City retains and reserves its right of Joint Exercise of Governmental
Powers as set forth in SDCL Title 1. Further the City adopts and ratifies each
and every contract and agreement entered into by virtue of that power under any
prior City organization or form of government.
§ 1.04 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this Charter shall be construed to permit the City to do any of
the following:
      1.   Levy a personal or corporate income tax;
      2.   Issue more liquor licenses; or
      3.   Permit increased gaming.
   Unless and except to the extent otherwise authorized to any City established
as a SDCL Title 9 authorized from of City government.
§ 1.05 NEW TAXES.
   Any new form or type of taxation, which is approved by the City Council, may
be referred to a vote of the people before it can become effective. This does
not apply to new or increased fees or increases in existing taxes.
ARTICLE II. CITY COUNCIL
§ 2.01 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   All powers of the City shall be vested in the City Council, except as
otherwise provided by law or this Charter, and Council shall provide for the
exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and obligations imposed
on the City by law.
§ 2.02 COMPOSITION, ELIGIBILITY, TERMS, BOND REQUIRED, DESIGNATION OF AREAS OF
RESPONSIBILITY, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   a.   Composition. There shall be a City Council composed of the Mayor and
six (6) Council members. Two Council members shall be elected from each of the
three Wards for the City. The Mayor shall be elected by the voters of the City
at large.
   b.   Eligibility. No person is eligible to be nominated, elected or
appointed as a mayor or as an alderman unless such person is a citizen of the
United States, a voter of and resident of the municipality, and, if an
alderman, a voter of and resident of the ward for which such person is to hold
office.
   c.   Terms. The terms of Council members and the Mayor shall be for two (2)
years beginning with the first regular City Council meeting following the
election.
   d.   Continuation of terms of Council members. The present City Council
members and Mayor, upon the successful adoption of this Charter by the voters
of the City of Fort Pierre, shall continue in office for the remainder of their
respective terms and may seek re-election if not prohibited by the terms of
this Charter.
§ 2.03 MAYOR.
   Among his other duties the Mayor shall serve as the presiding officer of the
City Council. In the absence of the Mayor the City Council shall designate one
of its members as president with the duties to be the same as the Mayor’s.
      a.   Powers and duties of Mayor - veto power. The Mayor shall preside at
all meetings of the Council but shall have no vote except in case of a tie. The
Mayor shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the laws and
ordinances, and take care that such laws and ordinances are faithfully
executed. The Mayor shall annually and from time to time give the Council
information relative to the affairs of the City, and shall recommend for their
consideration such measures, as he may deem expedient. The Mayor shall have the
power to sign or veto any ordinance or resolution passed by the Council, and
the power to veto any part or item of an ordinance or resolution appropriating
money. The Council may override a veto by an affirmative vote of four (4)
members.
§ 2.04 COMPENSATION; EXPENSES.
   The City Council shall determine the annual salary of the Mayor and Council
members by resolution in December, and the resolution increasing such salary
shall become effective for the next regular fiscal year. The Mayor and Council
members shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties of office.
§ 2.05 PROHIBITIONS.
   a.   Holding other office. Except where authorized by law, no Council member
shall hold any other elected public office during the term for which the member
was elected to the Council. No Council member shall hold another City office or
City employment during the terms for which the member was elected to the
Council. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the Council
from selecting any current or former Council member to represent the City on
the governing board of regional or intergovernmental agency.
§ 2.06 VACANCIES; FORFEITURE OF OFFICE; FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   a.   Vacancies. The office of a Council member or Mayor shall become vacant
upon the person’s death, resignation, removal from office, or forfeiture of
office in any manner authorized by law.
   b.   Recall. The power of recall of the Mayor and Council members shall be
allowed as set forth in SDCL Title 9.
   c.   Forfeiture of office. The Mayor or a Council member shall forfeit that
office if the Mayor or Council member:
      1.   Lacks at any time during the term of office for which elected any
qualification for the office prescribed by this Charter or by law.
      2.   Violates any expressed prohibition in Section 7.02 of this Charter.
      3.   Fails to maintain residency within City limits or within the Ward
from which the Council member was elected.
      4.   Is convicted of a felony.
      5.   Fails to attend 50% of the regular meetings of the Council during a
fiscal year, or three consecutive regular meetings of the Council, without
being excused by the Mayor or the Council.
   d.   Filling of vacancies. The Mayor shall fill a vacancy in the office of
City Council for the remainder of the unexpired term by appointment of a
qualified person with approval by a majority vote of the remaining members of
the Council. Such vote shall be by secret ballot.
§ 2.07 JUDGE OF QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City Council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of
its members and of the grounds for forfeiture of their office. The City Council
shall have the power to set additional standards of conduct for its members
beyond those specified in the Charter and may provide for such penalties as it
deems appropriate, including forfeiture of office. In order to exercise these
powers, the Council shall have power to call witnesses and administer oaths. A
member charged with conduct constituting grounds for forfeiture of office shall
be entitled to a public hearing on demand, and notice of such hearing shall be
published in a legal newspaper for the City at least seven days in advance of
the hearing. Decisions made by the Council under this section shall be subject
to judicial review.
§ 2.08 FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall appoint an officer of the City who shall have the title of
Finance Officer. The City Council shall approve such appointment. The Finance
Officer shall give notice to Council meetings to its members and the public,
keep the journal of its proceedings and perform such other duties as are
assigned by this Charter, City Ordinance, the Council, the Mayor or state law.
The Council may require and provide for a bond in the amount set by the
Council.
§ 2.09 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The City Council may make investigations into the affairs of the City and
the conduct of any City department, office or agency and for this purpose may
call witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and request the production of
evidence. Failure or refusal to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of
these powers by the Council shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine and/or
jail sentence to be established by resolution of the Council.
§ 2.10 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   The City Council shall provide for an independent annual audit of all City
accounts and may provide for more frequent audits, as it deems necessary. A
certified public accountant or firm of such accountants who have no personal
interest, direct or indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the City government or
any of its officers shall make such audits. The Council may, without requiring
competitive bids, designate such accountant or firm annually or for a period
not exceeding two years, but the designation for any particular fiscal year
shall be made no later than 30 days after the beginning of such fiscal year. If
the state auditor general makes such an audit, the Council may accept it as
satisfying the requirements of this section.
§ 2.11 PROCEDURE.
   a.   Meetings. The Council shall meet regularly at such times and places as
the Council may prescribe by Ordinance. Special meetings may be held on the
call of the Mayor or of 3 or more members and, whenever practicable, upon no
less than twenty-four (24) hours notice to each member. Except as allowed by
state law, all meetings shall be public: however, the Council may recess for
the purpose of discussing in a closed or executive session limited to its own
membership, legal counsel and other persons invited by the Council, any matter
which would tend to defame or prejudice the character or reputation of any
person, any matter concerning personnel or collective bargaining matters or any
threatened or pending litigation or pending contract matters and any reason
provided by state law. The general subject matter should be expressed in the
motion calling for such session. All actions must be taken in session open to
the public.
   b.   Rules and minutes. The City Council shall determine its own rules and
order of business and shall provide for keeping the minutes of its proceedings.
These rules and minutes shall be a public record.
   c.   Voting. Voting, except on procedural motions, shall be by roll call and
the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal. Four members of the Council
shall constitute a quorum, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time
and may compel the attendance of absent members in the manner and subject to
the penalties provided in the preceding sentence and in §
2.06, and shall be valid or binding unless adopted by the affirmative vote of 4
or more members of the Council. Any official action must be approved by a
majority of the Council unless otherwise provided by this Charter or by state
law.
§ 2.12 ACTION REQUIRING AN ORDINANCE.
   In addition to other acts required by law or by specific provision of this
Charter to be done by ordinance, those acts of the City Council shall be by
ordinance which:
      1.   Adopt or amend any code of technical regulations or establish or
abolish any City department, office or agency.
      2.   Levy taxes.
      3.   Grant, renew or extend a franchise.
      4.   Regulate land use and development.
      5.   Amend or repeal any ordinance previously adopted.
      6.   Establish and regulate the conduct of elections.
      7.   Bidding, purchasing, and disposal procedures.
   Acts other than those referred to in the preceding sentence may be done
either by ordinance or by resolution.
§ 2.13 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS IN GENERAL.
   City ordinances and resolutions shall be introduced, published, enacted,
recorded, and codified as provided in state law; however, the City Council may
by ordinance amend such procedures.
§ 2.14 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or the public
peace, the City Council may adopt one or more emergency ordinances, but such
ordinances may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise, or authorize
the borrowing of money except as provided in §
4.06 (b). An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner
prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated
as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a
declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and
specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment
or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote
of at least 4 members shall be required for adoption. After its adoption, the
ordinance shall be published and printed as prescribed for other adopted
ordinances. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it
may specify.
   Every emergency ordinance, except one made pursuant to §
4.06(b), shall automatically stand repealed as of the 61st day following the
date on which it was adopted, unless otherwise provided in the ordinance, but
this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in
this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be
repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in
this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
§ 2.15 CODES OF TECHNICAL REGULATIONS.
   The City Council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by
reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements
governing such an adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances
generally that:
      1.   The requirements of §
2.13 for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed
to include copies of the code of technical regulations as well as of the
adopting ordinance.
      2.   A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations as well as of
the adopting ordinance shall be authenticated and recorded by the Finance
Officer pursuant to §
2.16(a).
   The Finance Officer shall make copies of any adopted code of technical
regulations available for distribution, review or for purchase at a reasonable
price.
§ 2.16 AUTHENTICATION AND RECORDING; CODIFICATION; PRINTING.
   a.   Authentication and recording. The Finance Officer shall authenticate by
signing and shall record in full in a properly indexed book kept for the
purpose all ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City Council.
   b.   Codification. Within five years after adoption of this Charter and at
least every twenty years thereafter, the City Council shall provide for the
preparation of a general codification of all City ordinances and resolutions
having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted
by the Council by ordinance and shall be published promptly in bound or loose-
leaf form, together with this Charter and any amendments thereto, pertinent
provisions of the Constitution and other laws of the State of South Dakota, and
such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the
Council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as
the Fort Pierre City Code of Ordinances. Copies of the Code shall be furnished
to City Officers, and conveniently placed for free public reference and made
available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price fixed by the
Council.
   c.   Printing of ordinances and resolutions. The City Council shall cause
each ordinance and resolution having the force and effect of law and each
amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and
the printed ordinances, resolutions and Charter amendments shall be distributed
or sold to the public at reasonable prices as fixed by the Council. Following
publication of the first Fort Pierre City Code of Ordinances and at all times
thereafter, the ordinances, resolutions and Charter amendments shall be printed
in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be
suitable in form for integration therein. The Council shall make such further
arrangements as it deems desirable with respect to reproduction and
distribution of any current changes in or addition to the provisions of the
Constitution and other laws of the State of South Dakota, or the codes or
technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
   d.   Publishing municipal ordinances and resolutions. Ordinances and
resolutions shall be published in the manner provided by state law except
lengthy exhibits need not be published in entirety, but shall be referred to by
title or summary. A copy of such exhibits shall be provided for public
inspection in the city office.
ARTICLE III. DEPARTMENTS, OFFICERS AND AGENCIES
§ 3.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The City Council may establish City departments, offices or agencies in
addition to those created by this Charter and may prescribe the function of all
departments, offices and agencies.
§ 3.02 LEGAL OFFICER.
   There shall be a legal officer of the City appointed by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council. The legal officer shall serve as chief legal
advisor to the Mayor, the Council and all city departments, offices and
agencies and shall represent the City in all legal proceedings and shall
perform any other duties prescribed by state law, by this Charter or by
Ordinance.
ARTICLE IV. FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
§ 4.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the City shall begin on the first day of January and end
on the last day of December.
§ 4.02 SUBMISSION OF BUDGET AND BUDGET MESSAGE.
   At the first regular City Council meeting in August of each year, the
Finance Officer, under direction of the Mayor, shall submit to the City Council
a proposed budget for the ensuing fiscal year.
§ 4.03 BUDGET.
   The budget shall provide a complete financial plan of all City funds and
activities for the ensuing fiscal year and except as required by law or this
Charter, shall be in such form as the City Council may require. The budget
shall begin with a clear general summary of its contents, shall show in detail
all estimated income, indicating the proposed property tax levy, and all
proposed expenditures, including debt service for the ensuing fiscal year; and
shall be so arranged as to show comparative figures for actual and estimated
income and expenditures of the current fiscal year. It shall indicate in
separate sections:
      1.   The proposed goals and objectives and expenditures for current
operations during the ensuing fiscal year, detailed for each fund by
organizational unit, and program, purpose or activity, and the method of
financing such expenditures.
      2.   Proposed capital expenditures during the ensuing fiscal year;
detailed for each fund by organizational unit when practicable, and the
proposed method of financing each such capital expenditure.
   For any fund, the total of proposed expenditures shall not exceed the total
of estimated income plus the fund balance carried forward, exclusive of
reserves.
§ 4.04 CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON BUDGET.
   The City Council shall adopt the budget on or before the 30th day of
September of the fiscal year currently ending.
§ 4.05 APPROPRIATION AND REVENUE ORDINANCES.
   To implement the adopted budget of the ensuing fiscal year, the City
Council:
   a.   Shall, no later than its first regular meeting in September of each
year or within 10 days thereafter, introduce the annual appropriation ordinance
for the ensuing fiscal year, in which it shall appropriate the sums of money
necessary to meet all lawful expenses and liabilities of the City.
      The ordinance shall specify the function and subfunction as prescribed by
the South Dakota Department of Legislative Audit for which the appropriations
are made and the amount appropriated for each function and subfunction, which
amount shall be appropriated from the proper fund. It is not necessary to
appropriate revenue to be expended from an enterprise or trust and agency fund
if the fund is not supported or subsidized by revenue derived from the annual
appropriated tax levy. However, an annual budget for these funds shall be
developed and published no later than the last day of December of each year.
   b.   Shall adopt any other ordinances required to authorize new revenues or
to amend the rates or other features of existing taxes or other revenue
sources.
§ 4.06 AMENDMENTS AFTER ADOPTION.
   a.   Supplemental appropriations. If during the fiscal year the finance
officer certifies that there are available for appropriation revenues in excess
of those estimated in the budget, the City Council by ordinance may make
supplemental appropriations for the year up to the amount of such excess
revenues.
   b.   Emergency appropriations. To meet a public emergency affecting life,
health, property, or the public peace, the City Council may make emergency
appropriations. Such appropriations may be made by emergency ordinance in
accordance with the provisions of §
2.14. To the extent that there are no available unappropriated revenues or a
sufficient fund balance to meet such appropriations, the Council may by such
emergency ordinance authorize the issuance of emergency notes, which may be
renewed from time to time, but the emergency notes and renewals of any fiscal
year shall be paid not later than the last day of the fiscal year next
succeeding that in which the emergency appropriation was made.
   c.   Reduction of appropriations. If at any time during the fiscal year it
appears probable to the finance officer that the revenues or fund balances
available will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for which
appropriations have been authorized, the finance officer shall report to the
City Council without delay, indicating the estimated amount of the deficit, and
recommendations as to any other steps to be taken. The Council shall then take
such further action as it deems necessary to prevent or reduce any deficit and
for that purpose it may by ordinance reduce one or m ore appropriations.
   d.   Transfer of appropriations. At any time during the fiscal year the City
Council may by resolution transfer part or all of the unencumbered
appropriation balance from one department or major organizational unit to the
appropriation for other departments or major organizational units. The finance
officer, with approval of the Council, may transfer part or all of any
unencumbered appropriation balances among programs within a department or
organizational unit and shall report such transfers to the Council in writing
prior to the next Council meeting.
   e.   Limitation; effective date. No appropriation for debt service may be
reduced or transferred, and no appropriation may be reduced below any amount
required by law to be appropriated or by more than the amount of the
unencumbered balance thereof. The emergency appropriations and reduction or
transfer of appropriations authorized by this section may be made effective
immediately upon adoption.
§ 4.07 LAPSE OF APPROPRIATIONS.
   Every appropriation shall lapse at the close of the fiscal year to the
extent that it has not been expended or encumbered.
§ 4.08 ADMINISTRATION OF BUDGET.
   The City Council shall provide by ordinance the procedures for administering
the budget.
§ 4.09 OVERSPENDING OF APPROPRIATIONS PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided no contract shall be made by the governing body
and no expense shall be incurred by any department or any officer thereof,
whether ordered by the governing body or not, unless an appropriation shall
have been previously made concerning such expense, or the governing body has
authorized the issuance of bonds for a specific purpose. Any authorization of
payment or incurring of obligation in violation of the provisions of this
Charter shall be void and any payments made illegal. Except where prohibited by
law, however, nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent the making
or authorizing of payments or making of contracts for capital improvements to
be financed wholly or partly by the issuance of bonds or to prevent the making
of any contract or lease providing for payments beyond the end of the fiscal
year, however, an appropriation need not have been previously made concerning
such future disbursements, except sufficient to cover the amount payable or
estimated to become payable under such contract for the first year thereof. The
governing body shall annually thereafter appropriate an amount sufficient to
cover the amount payable or estimated to become payable under such contract
during the ensuing fiscal year.
§ 4.10 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Copies of the budget, and appropriation and revenue ordinances shall be
public records and shall be made available to the public. Expenditures and all
other information is public information and available during regular office
hours at the City finance office.
ARTICLE V. ELECTIONS
§ 5.01 CITY ELECTIONS.
   a.   Regular elections. The regular City election shall be held at the time
established by state law or as otherwise established by ordinance adopted by
the City Council.
   b.   Registered voter defined. All citizens legally registered under the
Constitution and laws of the State of South Dakota to vote in the City shall be
registered voters of the City within the meaning of this Charter.
   c.   Conduct of elections. The provisions of the general election laws of
the State of South Dakota shall apply to elections held under this Charter or
as set forth in any ordinance adopted by the City Council. All elections
provided by for the Charter shall be conducted by the election authorities
established by law. Candidates shall run for office without party designation.
For the conduct of City elections, for the prevention of fraud in such
elections and for the recount of ballots in cases of doubt or fraud, the City
Council shall adopt ordinances consistent with law and this Charter, and the
election authorities may adopt further regulations consistent with law and this
Charter and the ordinances of the Council. Such ordinances and regulations
pertaining to elections shall be publicized in the manner of ordinances
generally.
§ 5.02 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   The powers of initiative and referendum are hereby reserved to the electors
of the City. The provisions of the election laws of the State of South Dakota,
as they currently exist or may hereafter be amended or superseded, shall govern
the exercise of the powers of initiative and referendum under this Charter.
ARTICLE VI. FORT PIERRE MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
§ 6.01 MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL OF FORT PIERRE MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   The management and control of the Fort Pierre Municipal Utilities is vested
in the City Council. The City Council may take any action it deems advisable in
the furtherance of any utilities or enterprises now existing or hereafter
acquired under its control including the borrowing of money, issuance of bonds
and other forms of indebtedness. The Council may contract with non-residents
for the provision of water and sewer services at rates and under such
conditions as the Council may determine. These powers shall not be limited
except to the extent expressly prohibited by the Constitutions of the United
States or the State of South Dakota, or this Charter.
ARTICLE VII. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 7.01 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   The use of public office for private gain is prohibited. The City Council
shall implement this prohibition by ordinance. Regulations to this end shall
include but not be limited to: acting in an official capacity on matters in
which the official has a private financial interest clearly separate from that
of the general public; the acceptance of gifts and other things of value;
acting in a private capacity on matters dealt with as a public official,
including the use of confidential information; and appearances by City
officials before other City agencies on behalf of private interests. The
appearance of impropriety shall be avoided. Municipal officials shall be, at a
minimum, restricted from conflict of interest to the same extent that state
public officials are bound by state law; provided however, that the City
Council may adopt an ordinance setting a stricter standard.
§ 7.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   a.   Activities prohibited. 
      1.   No person shall be discriminated against on any basis prohibited by
State or Federal law.
      2.   No person shall willfully make any false statement, certificate,
mark, rating, or report in regard to any test, certification, or appointment
under the provisions of this Charter or the rules and regulations made
hereunder, or in any manner commit any fraud preventing the impartial execution
of such provisions, rules and regulations.
      3.   No person who seeks appointment or promotion with respect to any
appointive City office shall directly or indirectly give, render, or pay any
money, service, or other valuable thing to any person for or in connection with
any test, appointment, proposed appointment or promotion.
      4.   No person shall knowingly or willfully solicit or assist in
soliciting any assessment, subscription, or contribution for any political
party or political purpose to be used in conjunction with any City election
from any City employee.
      5.   No City employee shall, directly or indirectly, contribute money or
anything of value to or render service in behalf of the candidacy of any
candidate for nomination or election to any City office. The expression of
private or personal views concerning candidates for political office is not
prohibited. Violation of this section shall be grounds for discharge or other
disciplinary action.
   b.   Penalties. Any violation of this section shall be sufficient cause for
the suspension, demotion, or termination of the employment of any City employee
found to be in violation of this section. The City Council shall establish by
ordinance such further penalties, as it may deem appropriate.
ARTICLE VIII. CHARTER AMENDMENT
§ 8.01 PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENT.
   Amendments to this Charter may be framed and proposed:
   a.   In the manner provided by law; or
   b.   By ordinance of the City Council containing the full text of the
proposed amendment (except Sections
1.04 and
1.05, cannot be so amended) and effective upon adoption; or
   c.   By the voters of the City, when any 50 qualified voters initiate
proceedings to amend the Charter by filing with the Finance Officer an
affidavit stating they will constitute the petitioners’ committee and be
responsible for circulating the petition and filing it in proper form, stating
their names and addresses and specifying the address to which all notices to
the committee are to be sent, and setting out in full the proposed Charter
amendment. Promptly after the affidavit of the petitioners’ committee is filed,
the Finance Officer shall issue the appropriate petition blanks to the
petitioners’ committee. The petitions shall contain or have attached thereto
throughout their circulation the full text of the proposed Charter amendment
and must be signed by registered voters of the City in the number of at least
10% of those individuals actually voting in the City in the preceding
gubernatorial election. Any proposed amendment approved by the Council is not
subject to Section
8.02.
§ 8.02 ELECTION.
   Upon delivery by the Finance Officer of an adopted ordinance proposing an
amendment pursuant to §
8.01(b) or a petition finally determined sufficient to propose an amendment
pursuant to §
8.01(d), the election authorities shall submit the proposed amendment to the
voters of the City in an election.
   Such election shall be announced by a notice containing the complete text of
the proposed amendment and published in the official newspaper of the City at
least 30 days prior to the date of the election. If the amendment is proposed
by petition, the amendment may be withdrawn at any time prior to the 13th day
preceding the day scheduled for the election by filing with the Finance Officer
a request for withdrawal signed by at least two-thirds of the members of the
petitioners’ committee. The election shall be held not less than 60 and not
more than 120 days after the adoption of the ordinance or the report of the
final determination of sufficiency of the petition proposing the amendment. If
no regular election is to be held within that period, the City Council shall
provide for a special election on the proposed amendment as specified in the
state election laws.
§ 8.03 ADOPTION OF AMENDMENT.
   If a majority of the registered voters of the City voting upon a proposed
Charter amendment vote in favor of it, the amendment shall become effective at
the time fixed in the amendment or, if no time is therein fixed, 3 0 days after
the official canvas certifying its adoption by the voters.
ARTICLE IX. TRANSITION/SEPARABILITY PROVISION
§ 9.01 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   a.   Rights and privileges preserved. Nothing in this Charter, except as
otherwise provided, shall affect or impair the rights or privileges of persons
who are City officers or employees at the time of its adoption.
   b.   Continuation of office or employment. Except as specifically provided
by this Charter, if at the time this Charter takes full effect a City
administrative officer or employee holds any office or position which is or can
be abolished by or under this Charter, he or she shall continue in such office
or position until the taking effect of some specific provision under this
Charter directing that he or she vacate the office or position.
   c.   Personnel system. An employee holding a City position at the time this
Charter takes full effect, who was serving in that same or a comparable
position at the time of its adoption, shall not be subject to competitive tests
as a condition of continuance in the same position but in all other respects
shall be subject to the personnel system provided by ordinance.
§ 9.02 DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES AND AGENCIES.
   a.   Transfer of powers. If a City department, office or agency is abolished
by this Charter, the powers and duties given it by law shall be transferred to
the City departments, office or agency designated in this Charter or, if the
Charter makes no provision, as designated by the City Council.
   b.   Property and records. All property, records and equipment of any
department, office or agency existing when this Charter is adopted shall be
transferred to the departments, office or agency assuming its powers and
duties, but, in the event that the powers or duties are to be discontinued or
divided between units or in the event that any conflict arises regarding a
transfer, such property, records or equipment shall be transferred to one or
more departments, offices or agencies designated by the City Council in
accordance with this Charter.
§ 9.03 PENDING MATTERS.
   All rights, claims, actions, orders, collective bargaining agreements,
contracts and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue except as
modified pursuant to the provisions of this Charter and in each case shall be
maintained, carried on or dealt with by the City department, office or agency
appropriate under this Charter.
§ 9.04 STATE AND MUNICIPAL LAWS.
   a.   In general. All City ordinances, resolutions, orders and regulations
which are in force when this Charter becomes effective shall continue except an
ordinance is repealed to the extent it is inconsistent with this Charter or of
ordinances or resolutions adopted pursuant hereto. To the extent that the
Constitution and laws of the State of South Dakota permit, all laws relating to
or affecting this City or its agencies officers or employees which are in force
when this Charter becomes fully effective are superseded to the extent that
they are inconsistent or interfere with the effective operation of this Charter
or of ordinances or resolutions adopted hereto.
§ 9.05 SCHEDULE.
   a.   First election. At the time of its adoption, this Charter shall be in
effect to the extent necessary in order that the first election of members of
the City Council may be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this
Charter. The first election shall be held on the second Tuesday of April 2000
unless a joint election agreement establishes a different date of election. The
present City Council shall prepare and adopt temporary regulations applicable
only to the first election and designed to insure its proper conduct and to
prevent and provide for recount of ballots in cases of doubt or fraud.
   b.   Time of taking full effect. The Charter shall be in full effect for all
purposes on and after the date and time of its adoption.
§ 9.06 SEPARABILITY.
   If any provision of this Charter is held invalid, the other provisions of
the Charter shall not be affected thereby. If the application of the Charter or
any of its provisions to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the
application of this Charter and its provisions to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereof.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Provisions subject to penalty
   
10.15   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles, chapters
and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Fort Pierre Code,” for
which designation “code of ordinances” or “codified ordinances” may be
substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. City of Fort Pierre, South Dakota.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last unless the last is a holiday, and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Fort Pierre, South Dakota.
   COUNTY. Stanley County, South Dakota.
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the City of Fort Pierre, South Dakota.
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. All cities and towns organized under
the laws of this state, but shall not include any other political subdivisions.
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of the powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county in which the municipality is located, or
his or her heirs or successors.
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for PUBLICATION shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service, either within or without the
state, upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice
required to be published shall be equivalent to the required PUBLICATION.
   RESOLUTION. Any determination, that decision or direction of the governing
body of a municipality of a temporary or special character, for the purpose of
initiating, effecting or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
   SDCL. The South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STATE. The State of South Dakota.
   STREET. STREET includes AVENUE.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-1-1 and 9-19-1
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended, or its application to
any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the local government exercising the powers,
duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer
of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions and regulations as may be proper and necessary to carry
into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided. When any ordinance repealing a
former ordinance, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, the repeal
shall not be construed to revive the former ordinance, clause or provision
unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PROVISIONS SUBJECT TO PENALTY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to allow the city to enact,
make, amend, revise or repeal all such ordinances, resolutions and regulations
as may be proper and necessary to carry into effect the powers granted thereto
and to provide for a punishment for each violation thereof by fine.
(Prior Code, § T-1-1)
   (B)   Amendment of section subject to penalty. Amendment to any section of
this code containing provisions for which a penalty is provided in another
section shall be held to relate and apply to the section so amended, whether
reenacted in the mandatory ordinance or not, unless otherwise specifically
provided therein.
(Prior Code, § T-1-3)
   (C)   Offenses having two penalties. Where the same offense is made
punishable by different clauses or sections of existing or subsequently enacted
code or ordinance, the city, in a prosecution based thereunder, may elect under
which clause or section to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § T-1-4)
Editor’s note:
   For authority, see U.S. Constitution, Amend. V, and South Dakota
Constitution, Art. VI, § 9.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
§ 10.15 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the current fine and bond values and court
costs as listed in the most current State of South Dakota Fine and Bond
Schedule as set forth by the 6th Judicial Circuit Court and Schedule of Courts
Costs as set by the South Dakota Unified Judicial System.
   (B)   Whenever in any section of this code or any ordinance, or any
resolution or regulation promulgated thereunder, the doing of any act is
required or is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, and no specific fine
or penalty is provided for such a violation thereof, any person who shall be
convicted of any violation of this code or any such ordinance, or of any
resolution or regulation promulgated thereunder, shall, for each offense, be
fined not more than $500 or be punished by imprisonment for not exceeding 30
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Each day’s violation of, or failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with, any provision of this code or any resolution or regulation promulgated
thereunder shall constitute a separate distinct offense.
   (D)   The provisions of divisions (B) and (C) above shall not apply to any
section of this code, or to any other ordinance, resolution or regulation
promulgated thereunder, that expressly provides a penalty for its violation.
(Prior Code, § T-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 22-6-2(2)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate limits
   
11.02   Wards and precincts
   
11.03   Territorial jurisdiction
§ 11.01 CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to identify the corporate
limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § A-1-1)
   (B)   Corporate limits of the city.
      (1)   The city shall consist of the land on the west bank of the Missouri
River in Township 5 North, Range 31 East of the Black Hills Meridian, Stanley
County, South Dakota, set apart by the Act of March 3, 1891, § 22, for townsite
purposes only as reflected in the patent issued by the United States government
to William R. Erwin, trustee, and on file in the office of the Register of
Deeds of the county, and shall include such areas as are from time to time
annexed thereto.
      (2)   The corporate limits of the city are as follows: the eastern
boundary shall be the Missouri River; the northern boundary shall begin at the
intersection of the west shore of the Missouri River and the north line of
Government Lot 5 in Section 16, thence, westerly to the NW corner of the SE 1/
4 SE 1/4 Section 17, thence southerly to the SW corner of the SE 1/4 of the SE
1/4 on the section line separating Section 20 from Section 17, in said Township
5, Range 31, thence, westerly to the north and south half section line of
Section 20; the western boundary shall be the north and south half section line
of Sections 20 and 29 from the above described northern border to intersection
with the east and west quarter line of the northeast quarter of Section 29,
along said quarter line to its intersection with the boundary between Sections
28 and 29, southerly along said boundary to the southern boundary of Section
28, and easterly along said southern boundary of Section 28 to intersection
with the original townsite described above, and then approximately 4,740 feet
along a southeasterly line described by the boundary of that townsite; thence
northeasterly along the southern boundary of the original townsite to the
intersection with the bank of the Bad River thence along the north and east
bank of the Bad River to the intersection with the north-south section line
dividing Sections 33 and 34, thence north along said section line the
intersection with the southernmost sixteenth line of Section 34, thence
easterly along said sixteenth line to the intersection with the bank of the
Missouri River, Stanley County.
(Prior Code, § A-1-2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c7df601766948ecb9e2dd8e829b08138baca1910/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2109.png]
 
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-3-2 and 9-29-1
§ 11.02 WARDS AND PRECINCTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish the number and
location of wards and precincts within the city.
(Prior Code, § A-4-1)
   (B)   Wards.
      (1)   The city is hereby divided into three wards, and such shall be
designated respectively as Ward One, Two and Three. The wards shall be
described with certain street or avenue designations or other landmarks that
border the wards. Any reference to a street or avenue below shall mean an
imaginary line running down the approximate middle of each street or avenue.
      (2)   The wards of the city are set forth below and shown in the ward map
thereof. Any discrepancies shall be resolved by reference to the ward map
rather than the physical descriptions set forth herein. Any previous wards and
precincts are replaced by those described herein and on the ward map.
         (a)   First Ward. All of that portion of the city enclosed by a line
starting at the southern city limit line, wrapping to the western city limit
line, north to Buffalo Road; then follow Buffalo Road to Far West Road, then
east on Far West Road to Sale Barn Road; then south following Sale Barn Road
until Highway 83, then south on Highway 83 until Second Avenue, then west three
blocks on Second Avenue until Fourth Street; then south one block on Fourth
Street until Main Avenue, then east on Main Avenue three blocks until Highway
83; then south on Highway 83 until the Bad River, then follow the Bad River to
the eastern city limit line; then south on the eastern city limit line until it
connects to the southern city limit line, ending at the starting point.
         (b)   Second Ward. All that portion of the city enclosed by a line
starting at the eastern city limit line adjacent to the railroad that lies
north of Royal Court, going south along the eastern city limit line until Main
Avenue, then wrapping around the north side of the Bad River to Highway 83;
then north on Highway 83 until Main Avenue, then three blocks west on Main
Avenue until Fourth Street, then north one block on Fourth Street until Second
Avenue, then 3 blocks east on Second Avenue until Highway 83; then north on
Highway 83 until Sale Barn Road; then west following Sale Barn Road until Far
West Road, then west of Far West Road until Buffalo Road; then south on Buffalo
Road to the west city limit line adjacent to Buffalo Road; then follow the west
city limit line west and north until Highway 14, then east on Highway 14 until
Laramie Trail; then north on Laramie Trail until Lindsay Trail, then east on
Lindsay Trail until Black and Yellow Trail, then north on Black and Yellow
Trail until Prairie Villa Trail; then east on Prairie Villa Trail to Highway
1806, then south on Highway 1806 until Highway 14; then east on Highway 14
until Waldron Street, then north on Waldron Street until the north entrance of
Tiree Drive; then east on Tiree Drive until Jura Avenue, then east on Jura
Avenue to Iona Street; then south on Iona Street to Islay Avenue, then east on
Islay Avenue to Skerrols Street; then south on Skerrols Street to Highway 14,
then east on Highway 14 until the railroad tracks adjacent to Royal Court; then
follow the railroad tracks until it connects to the eastern city limit line,
ending at the starting point.
         (c)   Third Ward. All that portion of the city enclosed by a line
starting at the northern city limit line, wrapping to the eastern city limit
line, south to the railroad; then follow the railroad southwest to Highway 14,
then west on Highway 14 to Skerrols Street; then north on Skerrols Street to
Islay Avenue, then west on Islay Avenue until Iona Street; then north on Iona
Street to Jura Avenue, then west on Jura Avenue to Tiree Drive; then north on
Tiree Drive until Waldron Street, following Waldron Street south until Highway
14; then west on Highway 14 until Highway 1806; then north on Highway 1806
until Prairie Villa Trail, then west on Prairie Villa Trail until Black and
Yellow Trail; then south on Black and Yellow Trail to Lindsay Trail, then west
on Lindsay Trail until Laramie Trail; then south on Laramie Trail until Highway
14, then west on Highway 14 to the western city limit line; then north on the
western city limit line until it connects to the northern city limit line,
ending at the starting point.
(Prior Code, § A-4-2)
   (C)   Precincts. Each ward within the city shall consist of one precinct,
with boundaries and designations identical to the boundary and designation of
the ward in which the precinct is situated.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c7df601766948ecb9e2dd8e829b08138baca1910/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2111.png]
 
(Prior Code, § A-4-3)
(Ord. 95, passed - -; Ord. 1057, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-2-7 and 9-13-16
§ 11.03 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to identify the corporate
limits of the city while setting forth applicable boundaries to aid in the
determination of jurisdiction concerning the enforcement of city ordinances and
resolutions and to clarify zoning jurisdictional area.
(Prior Code, § A-2-2)
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. All areas within the corporate limits, all land
owned by the city and all places within one mile outside the corporate limits
of the city or within one mile of any public ground or campground owned by the
city.
(Prior Code, § A-2-1)
   (C)   Territorial jurisdiction.
      (1)   For the purposes of promoting the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the community and of enforcing its ordinances and
resolutions relating thereto, the territorial jurisdiction of the city includes
all areas within the corporate limits, as defined in §
11.01 of this chapter, all land owned by the city and all places within one
mile outside the corporate limits of the city or the boundaries of city-owned
land.
      (2)   This jurisdiction shall not, however, extend to areas within the
corporate limits of any other legally incorporated and functioning
municipality.
      (3)   Any prohibitions contained in this code against acts or omissions
within this city or within the corporate limits of the city shall also extend
throughout the territorial jurisdiction of the city.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c7df601766948ecb9e2dd8e829b08138baca1910/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2113.png]
 
(Prior Code, § A-2-3)
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see Res. 680, passed 8-6-1990.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
31.   COUNCIL MEETINGS AND PROCEEDINGS
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
34.   FINANCES AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: CITY ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
30.01   Type of government
   
30.02   Mayor; qualifications and succession
   
30.03   Council members; qualifications and succession
   
30.04   Appointments by the City Council
   
30.05   City License Officer
§ 30.01 TYPE OF GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter, as well as
Ch. 31 of this code, is to describe the governing body of the city and also to
set forth the rules of procedure such body will follow.
(Prior Code, § B-1-1)
   (B)   Government of the city shall be of the Mayor-Council or aldermanic
form, as described in SDCL Ch. 9-8.
(Prior Code, § B-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-2-3
§ 30.02 MAYOR; QUALIFICATIONS AND SUCCESSION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish the chief
executive officer of the city, his or her qualifications and matters relating
to succession in such office.
(Prior Code, § B-2-1)
   (B)   Chief executive officer. The chief executive officer of the city shall
be the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § B-2-2)
   (C)   Qualifications and successions in Office of Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor of the city shall be a citizen of the United States and
must be a registered voter residing in the city.
      (2)   The term of office for the Mayor shall be two years.
      (3)   If the Mayor is disabled or for any reason is unable to act in that
capacity, the powers and duties of the Office of Mayor shall be assumed by the
President of the City Council. If the disability or inability to act is of a
permanent nature, an election shall be held for the unexpired term at the next
annual municipal election.
      (4)   If the President of the City Council is disabled or for any reason
is unable to act in that capacity, the powers and duties of the Office of
President shall be assumed by the Vice-President of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § B-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 1-30-5, 9-8-1, 9-8-2 and 9-8-7 and SDCL Ch.
9-8
§ 30.03 COUNCIL MEMBERS; QUALIFICATIONS AND SUCCESSION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to describe the governing body
of the city, the qualification and succession of its members and the
appointments made thereby.
(Prior Code, § B-3-1)
   (B)   Legislative powers. Legislative powers of the city shall be vested in
six Council members, who shall comprise the City Council.
(Prior Code, § B-3-2)
   (C)   Qualification and succession of Council members.
      (1)   A Council member of the city shall be a citizen of the United
States and must be a registered voter residing in the ward in which he or she
is elected.
      (2)   Council members shall serve staggered two-year terms of office.
      (3)   If a Council member is disabled or for any reason is unable to act
in that capacity for a term in excess of 60 days, the Mayor may propose another
qualified individual to act in place of the disabled Council member to serve
out the remaining term, who shall be appointed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § B-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 1-30-5, 9-2-3, 9-8-1.1, 9-8-4 and 9-14-3 and
SDCL Ch. 9-8
§ 30.04 APPOINTMENTS BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   At the first regular meeting in May of each year, the Mayor shall recommend
the appointment for City Attorney, Finance Officer, Chief of Police, Director
of Public Works and such other officers as needed, subject to confirmation by
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § B-3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-3 and SDCL Ch. 9-8
§ 30.05 CITY LICENSE OFFICER.
   (A)   Designation. The City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall act
as City License Officer.
   (B)   Issuing licenses. The City Finance Officer or his or her designee
shall collect all license fees and issue licenses in the name of the city to
all persons qualified under the provisions of
Ch. 110 of this code, and of Title XI of this code in general, and shall:
      (1)   Make rules. Promulgate and enforce all reasonable rules and
regulations necessary to the operation and enforcement of
Ch. 110 and of Title XI in general;
      (2)   Adopt forms. Adopt all forms and prescribe the information to be
given therein as to character and other relevant matters for all necessary
papers;
      (3)   Require affidavits. Require applicants to submit all affidavits and
oaths necessary to the administration of
Ch. 110 and of Title XI in general;
      (4)   Obtain endorsement of majority of the Council. Submit all
applications, except those listed below, to city officials for their
endorsement thereon as to compliance by the applicant with all city regulations
for which they have the duty of enforcing:
         (a)   The City Finance Officer or his or her designee may grant a
peddlers permit for the length of not longer than three days after receiving
proof of all state and local tax licenses; and
         (b)   The City Finance Officer or his or her designee may grant a
fireworks permit for the length of not longer than five days.
      (5)   Examine records. Examine the books and records of any applicant or
licensee when reasonably necessary to the administration and enforcement of
Ch. 110 and of Title XI in general; and
      (6)   Give notice. Notify any applicant of the acceptance or rejection of
his or her application and, upon his or her refusal of any license or permit,
at the applicant’s request, state in writing the reasons therefor and deliver
them to the applicant.
   (C)   Information confidential. The City Finance Officer or his or her
designee shall keep all information furnished or secured under the authority of
Ch. 110 and of Title XI in general in strict confidence. Such information shall
not be subject to public inspection and shall be kept so that the contents
thereof shall not become known, except to the persons charged with the
administration of Ch. 110 and of Title XI in general.
(Prior Code, § S-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
CHAPTER 31: COUNCIL MEETINGS AND PROCEEDINGS
Section
   
31.01   Purpose
   
31.02   Definitions
   
31.03   Regular meetings
   
31.04   Special meetings
   
31.05   Presiding officer; election and duties
   
31.06   Powers of presiding officer
   
31.07   Agenda
   
31.08   Call to order and roll call
   
31.09   Order of business; approving agenda
   
31.10   Reading of the minutes
   
31.11   Quorum
   
31.12   Silence constitutes an affirmative vote
   
31.13   Enforcement of decorum; movement of members of the public
   
31.14   Members may file protest against Council actions
   
31.15   Claims against city
   
31.16   Ordinances, resolutions, motions and contracts
   
31.17   Special committees
   
31.18   Reports of committees
   
31.19   Reports and resolutions filed with Finance Officer
   
31.20   Rules of Order
Cross-reference:
   Additional city and personnel policies, see
Ch. 33
§ 31.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to describe the policies of the City Council
concerning its meetings, agenda, presiding officer, rules of order, minutes,
voting and committees and also its policies concerning the preparation and
passage of ordinances, resolutions, motions and contracts.
(Prior Code, § B-4-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Ch. 9-8, 9-14, 9-19, 9-21 and 9-23
§ 31.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act of the governing body of the
municipality within the limits of its powers.
   RESOLUTION. Any determination, decision or direction of the governing body
of a municipality of a special or temporary character for the purpose of
initiating, affecting or carrying out its administrative duties and functions
under the laws and ordinances governing the municipality.
(Prior Code, § B-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-1
§ 31.03 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   Time. The City Council shall hold regular meetings on a fixed date and
time as established by resolution; provided, however, that when the day fixed
for any regular meeting of the Council falls upon a day designated by law as a
legal or national holiday, such meeting shall be held at the same hour on the
next succeeding day not a holiday.
    (B)   Place. All regular meetings of the Council shall be held in the
Council Room of the City Offices or as otherwise noted on the agenda. It shall
sit with open doors and shall keep a journal of its proceedings, except while
in executive session.
(Prior Code, § B-4-3) (Ord. 973, passed - -; Ord. - -, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-8-8
§ 31.04 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor shall call special meetings of the Council whenever, in his or her
opinion, the public business may so require or at the express written request
of any four members of the Council. Whenever a special meeting shall be called,
a summons or a notice in writing shall be served upon each member of the
Council, either in person or by notice left at his or her place of residence,
stating the date and hour of the meeting and the purpose for which such meeting
is called. No business shall be transacted except such as is stated in the
notice. The notice shall be provided within a reasonable time in advance of
such meeting.
(Prior Code, § B-4-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-8-8
§ 31.05 PRESIDING OFFICER; ELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The presiding officer of the Council shall be the Mayor, or in the
absence of the Mayor, the President, who shall be elected annually at the first
meeting in May of each year by the members from their membership.
   (B)   The presiding officer shall preserve strict order and decorum at all
regular and special meetings of the Council. He or she shall state every
question coming before the Council, announce the decision of the Council on all
subjects and decide all questions of order, subject, however, to an appeal by
the Council, in which event, a majority vote of the Council shall govern and
conclusively determine such question of order. He or she shall sign all
ordinances and resolutions adopted by the Council during his or her presence.
   (C)   In the event of the absence of the Mayor, the presiding officer shall
sign ordinances or resolutions as then adopted in his or her presence.
(Prior Code, § B-4-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-5 and 9-8-7
§ 31.06 POWERS OF PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   If the Mayor presides over a meeting, he or she may propose matters
for consideration and may assume an active role in debate of any matter which
shall come before the Council. The Mayor shall not, however, vote on any issue
before the Council unless there is a tie vote, at which time, the Mayor may
cast the deciding vote. The Mayor may not vote to break a tie upon any proposal
to sell any city property, to enter into any lease-purchase agreement for a
term exceeding one year or to pass any ordinance or proposal to create a
liability against the municipality or for the expenditure or appropriation of
its money.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to sign or veto any ordinance or
resolution passed by the City Council and the power to veto any part or item of
an ordinance or resolution appropriating money. If the Mayor disapproves an
ordinance, the Mayor may veto the same by filing a written objection thereto
with the Finance Officer within ten days after its passage upon second reading.
Such veto may extend to any one or more items contained in an ordinance making
an appropriation or to the entire ordinance, and in case the veto only extends
to a part of such ordinance, the remainder shall take effect. In all other
respects, the Mayor shall have all of the rights and privileges of a Council
member. If the Mayor vetoes any ordinance, it shall be presented at the next
meeting of the Council by the Finance Officer, with the Mayor’s written
objection, and may be reconsidered. If it shall pass by four votes of the
Council members, it shall be published and become effective, notwithstanding
the Mayor’s disapproval.
(Prior Code, § B-4-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-3, 9-8-10, 9-19-10, 9-19-11 and 9-21-
18.1
§ 31.07 AGENDA.
   All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract documents or
other matters shall be submitted to the Finance Officer or his or her designee,
the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, the City Council, the
Mayor, all other appointed officers and the City Attorney prior to the Council
meeting and as far in advance of the meeting as time for preparation will
permit. None of the foregoing matters shall be presented to the Council by
administrative officials except those of an urgent nature, and the same, when
so presented, shall have the written approval of the Mayor before presentation.
(Prior Code, § B-4-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-8-5
§ 31.08 CALL TO ORDER AND ROLL CALL.
   (A)   Call to order. The Mayor, or in his or her absence, the President of
the Council, or in the absence of both the Mayor and the President, the Vice-
President of the Council, shall take the chair precisely at the hour appointed
for the meeting and shall immediately call the Council to order. In the absence
of the Mayor, President or Vice-President, the Finance Officer or his or her
designee shall call the Council to order, whereupon a temporary Chairperson
shall be elected by the members of the Council present. Upon the arrival of the
Mayor, President or Vice-President, the temporary Chairperson shall relinquish
the chair upon the conclusion of the business immediately before the Council.
(Prior Code, § B-4-7)
   (B)   Roll call. Before proceeding with the business of the Council, the
Finance Officer or his or her designee shall record the roll of the members,
and the names of those present shall be entered in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § B-4-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-5 and 9-8-7
§ 31.09 ORDER OF BUSINESS; APPROVING AGENDA.
   All meetings of the Council shall be open to the public, except where closed
to executive session. Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each
regular meeting, the members of the City Council, the Finance Officer or his or
her designee, the City Attorney and the Mayor shall take their regular stations
in the Council Chambers and shall approve an agenda prior to conducting any
business before the Council.
(Prior Code, § B-4-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-5 and 9-8-8
§ 31.10 READING OF THE MINUTES.
   Unless a reading of the minutes of a Council meeting is requested by a
member of the Council, such minutes may be approved without reading if the
Finance Officer or his or her designee has previously mailed minutes to each
member. Once approved, the minutes shall be considered public record.
(Prior Code, § B-4-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-8-5
§ 31.11 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the members elected to the Council shall constitute a
quorum at any regular or special meeting of the Council. In the absence of a
quorum, the presiding officer shall, at the request of any three members
present, compel the attendance of absent members.
(Prior Code, § B-4-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-5 and 9-8-8
§ 31.12 SILENCE CONSTITUTES AN AFFIRMATIVE VOTE.
   Unless a member of the Council states that he or she is not voting, his or
her silence shall be recorded as an affirmative vote. This section does not
apply to ordinances or proposals to create a liability against the city, or for
the expenditure or appropriation of the city’s funds, or in cases of a Council
member’s abstention due to a conflict of interests.
(Prior Code, § B-4-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-5 and 9-8-10
§ 31.13 ENFORCEMENT OF DECORUM; MOVEMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   Enforcement. The Mayor or presiding officer, with the approval of the
Council, may appoint a Sergeant-at-Arms at the Council meetings. He or she
shall carry out all orders and instructions given by the presiding officer for
the purpose of maintaining order and decorum at the Council meeting. Upon
instructions of the presiding officer, it shall be the duty of the Sergeant-at-
Arms, or any of them present, to remove any person who violates the order and
decorum of the meeting and, upon a complaint to be signed by the presiding
officer, such person may be prosecuted for disorderly conduct pursuant to SDCL
§ 22-13-1.
(Prior Code, § B-4-14)
   (B)   Movement. When a meeting is in session, no person shall move about the
meeting room in a disruptive fashion which may disturb the Council’s
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § B-4-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-5 and 9-14-3
§ 31.14 MEMBERS MAY FILE PROTEST AGAINST COUNCIL ACTIONS.
   Any member shall have the right to have the reasons for his or her dissent
from, or protest against, any action of the Council entered in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § B-4-17)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-8-5
§ 31.15 CLAIMS AGAINST CITY.
   No account or other demand against the city shall be allowed or conceded
until the same has been considered and approved by the Council.
(Prior Code, § B-4-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-5, 9-23-1 and 9-23-2
§ 31.16 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS AND CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Preparation for presentation. Ordinances shall be prepared for
presentation to the Council by city staff, Council members or the Mayor, or as
an initiated measure pursuant to state law.
   (B)   Prior review by administrative staff. All ordinances and contract
documents, before presentation to the Council, shall be examined by the City
Attorney, the Mayor and the head of the department under whose jurisdiction the
administration of the subject matter lies.
   (C)   Introducing for passage or approval.
      (1)   Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects requiring
action by the Council must be introduced and sponsored by a member of the
Council. The Mayor, the Finance Officer or his or her designee, the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee or the City Attorney may present proposed
ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects to the Council for
consideration, and any Council member may assume sponsorship thereof by moving
that such ordinances, resolutions, matters or subjects be adopted; otherwise,
they shall not be considered.
      (2)   All ordinances shall be read twice, with at least five days
intervening between the first and second reading. The ordinance shall be signed
by the Mayor or presiding officer, filed with the City Finance Office and
published once, except that an ordinance incorporating and adopting
comprehensive regulations or a code promulgated, approved and published by the
recognized and established national organization prescribing building,
electrical, plumbing, safety, fire, health or milk regulations need not be
published in the newspaper in its entirety, but upon adoption of such
ordinance, the Finance Officer or his or her designee shall publish a notice of
the fact of adoption once a week for two successive weeks in the official
newspaper, notifying the public that a copy of such comprehensive regulation
may be inspected in the City Finance Office, and 20 days after the completed
publication of such notice, unless the referendum shall be invoked, such
ordinance shall become effective.
      (3)   No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, which shall be
clearly expressed in its title, and no ordinance or section thereof shall be
amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains the title of the
ordinance or section amended or repealed, and when practicable, all ordinances
shall be introduced as amendments to existing ordinances or sections thereof.
      (4)   The vote upon all ordinances upon the second reading, and to pass
the same over any veto, shall be taken by yeas and nays and entered upon the
minutes.
(Prior Code, § B-4-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-5, 9-14-22, 9-19-3, 9-19-5, 9-19-7 and
9-19-9
§ 31.17 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   All special committees shall be appointed by the presiding officer unless
otherwise directed by a majority vote of the Council.
(Prior Code, § B-4-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-3 and 9-8-5
§ 31.18 REPORTS OF COMMITTEES.
   All committees shall make report in writing and shall return to the Council
the petition, resolution, account or other paper submitted for consideration.
(Prior Code, § B-4-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-5 and 9-8-9
§ 31.19 REPORTS AND RESOLUTIONS FILED WITH FINANCE OFFICER.
   All reports and resolutions may be passed after one reading and shall be
filed with the City Finance Office. Resolutions shall be published in full
either as part of the minutes or separately.
(Prior Code, § B-4-21)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-8, 1-27-1, 1-27-1.16
§ 31.20 RULES OF ORDER.
   The City Council hereby adopts Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, for the
purpose of conducting meetings in a democratic manner to ensure its protection
and to consider the rights of its members.
(Prior Code, § B-4-22)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-8-5
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Public Safety
   
32.01   Fire protection agency
   
32.02   Police Department
   
32.03   Authority for joint power agency
Boards and Commissions
   
32.15   Purpose
   
32.16   Names and functions
   
32.17   Appeals from Board or Commission decisions
Committees
   
32.30   Purpose
   
32.31   Standing committees
   
32.32   Membership
PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 32.01 FIRE PROTECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to describe the city’s
policies concerning fire protection with the city.
(Prior Code, § C-1-1)
   (B)   Fire protection by contract.
      (1)   The city shall maintain no fire department as a component or
division of city government, but shall contract with local firefighting
agencies for fire protection.
      (2)   This section shall in no way prohibit or penalize participation by
city officers or employees in volunteer firefighting activities.
(Prior Code, § C-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-11 through 9-33-13 and 34-31-4
§ 32.02 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to describe the organization,
the powers and the duties of the City Police Department relating to the
enforcement of laws and to the protection of the citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, § C-2-1)
   (B)   Police force. The police force of the city shall consist of the Chief
of Police and such patrol officers as the Mayor may appoint, subject to the
approval of the City Council. In case of declared and documented emergency, the
Mayor may appoint extra police officers or call upon any resident of the city
to assist in establishing or maintaining order.
(Prior Code, § C-2-2)
   (C)   Appointment. The Chief of Police and the patrol officers shall hold
office until a resignation is submitted and accepted by the Mayor and Council
or until terminated for cause in accordance with established personnel
policies.
(Prior Code, § C-2-3)
   (D)   Uniform. Each police officer, while on duty, shall wear the official
uniform of the city’s police force. Clearly designated police vehicles shall be
used in the routine conduct of police business.
(Prior Code, § C-2-4)
   (E)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the police force of the city, and of
each officer thereof, to enforce all provisions of this code and to preserve
the peace and general order within the territorial jurisdiction of the city at
all times by such lawful means as the officer determines are reasonable and
necessary.
(Prior Code, § C-2-5)
   (F)   Impersonation. Except as provided for in SDCL Ch. 23A-3, it is
unlawful for any person not duly authorized to exercise the duty conferred by
ordinance upon police officers of this city to wear a police officer’s badge or
represent himself or herself as being a police officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § C-2-6)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-29-2, 9-29-17, 9-29-19 and 22-40-
16
§ 32.03 AUTHORITY FOR JOINT POWER AGENCY.
   Pursuant to state statute, the city, when necessary, may enter into a joint
powers agreement with other law enforcement agencies to provide for police
protection. Where such joint powers agreement is entered, the provisions of §
32.02(A) through (E) of this chapter, inclusive, shall be considered suspended
during the term of any such contract.
(Prior Code, § C-2-7)
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see South Dakota Constitution, Art. IX, § 3.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 1-24-2 and 9-12-4
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to describe the names and functions
of the boards that will assist the City Council in its discharge of
governmental responsibilities and duties.
(Prior Code, § D-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-3
§ 32.16 NAMES AND FUNCTIONS.
   The following boards or commissions shall assist the Council in the
discharge of governmental functions and duties:
   (A)   Ambulance Board. A multi-governmental board to which the Council shall
appoint Council members to serve as delegates and liaison on matters pertaining
to emergency medical services operations and funding;
   (B)   Board of Adjustment and Appeals. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals,
as established in Ch. 159 of this code, is an intermediate forum which, upon
request duly presented, reviews decisions of the city officials on specific
matters. The Board may rely on files or records and may conduct hearings at its
discretion pursuant to SDCL Ch. 11-4;
   (C)   Appraisal Board. A group of citizens familiar with property values in
the area who are charged with placing market values on government property;
   (D)   Housing Authority Board. An advisory panel charged with grant
oversight, coordination with planning entities and liaison with developers and
state and federal housing programs; and
   (E)   Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission, as established in Ch. 159 of
this code, is an advisory commission to which all zoning and rezoning requests
are initially directed. Such requests, along with the recommendation of the
Commission, shall be transmitted to the Council for final determination.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by
the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council. The term of each member shall be
for five years.
      (3)   Three of the initial members shall be appointed for terms of three
years and the other four for five years. Thereafter, all terms, as aforesaid,
shall be for five years. The Mayor, with the confirmation of the City Council,
may remove any member for cause upon written charges and after public hearing.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term
becomes vacant.
      (4)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from among its
membership for a term of one year, with eligibility for reelection, and may
fill such other offices it may create in a manner prescribed by its rules.
Members shall receive compensation for each meeting as set annually by the City
Council.
      (5)   All terms of its members and its officers shall expire on July 1 in
any given year. The Commission hereby adopts Robert’s Rules of Order, revised,
for the purpose of conducting meetings in a democratic manner to ensure its
protection and to consider the rights of its members.
(Prior Code, § D-1-2) (Ord. 894, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 6-13-2, 9-12-3.1, 9-14-3, 11-4-11, 11-6-2,
11-8-38 and 34-11-1 and SDCL Ch. 1-24 and 11-4
§ 32.17 APPEALS FROM BOARD OR COMMISSION DECISIONS.
   Any action or decision of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals, as listed in
this subchapter, may be appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The Council
may establish and change the procedures and rules governing the Planning and
Zoning Commission or Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
(Prior Code, § D-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-25 and 11-6-2
COMMITTEES
§ 32.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to enumerate the standing committees of
the City Council and describe the appointment process for the members of each.
(Prior Code, § D-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§9-14-3 and 9-14-27
§ 32.31 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   Standing committees of the City Council shall consist of four Council
members, as follows:
   (A)   Finance Committee;
   (B)   Utilities Committee;
   (C)   Property and Parks Committee; and
   (D)   Personnel Committee.
(Prior Code, § D-2-2) (Ord. 530, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-8-5 and 9-14-27
§ 32.32 MEMBERSHIP.
   Members of the standing committees established hereby shall be appointed by
the Mayor, with approval by the Council, at the first regular Council meeting
of the month following the annual elections of Council members.
(Prior Code, § D-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-3
CHAPTER 33: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
Personnel Policies Generally
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Personnel policies adopted
   
33.03   Policy and procedure manual, City Police Department
   
33.04   Swimming pool policy manual
Code of Conduct
   
33.15   Purpose
   
33.16   Definitions
   
33.17   Application
   
33.18   Requirements
   
33.19   Gift or promise of favor
   
33.20   Remedy
Lobbying Restrictions
   
33.35   Purpose
   
33.36   Restrictions
   
33.37   Disclosure
   
33.38   Documentation required
PERSONNEL POLICIES GENERALLY
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for a uniform and sound
personnel administration policy within the city.
(Prior Code, § B-5-1)
§ 33.02 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted a certain policy known as the Personnel Policies,
and the whole thereof shall be on file with the City Finance Office. Additional
deletions, modifications and amendments may be made by the City Council as an
administrative matter by resolution and shall be effective upon their adoption
and filing with the City Finance Office. The Finance Officer or his or her
designee shall keep and maintain a master copy of said policy, including all
future deletions, modifications and amendments which may be adopted by the City
Council as herein provided, and the same shall be available and subject to
public inspection at all times.
(Prior Code, § B-5-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-3, 60-4-2, 60-4-4, 60-4-5 and 60-4-
9 and SDCL Ch. 9-14 and 60-2
§ 33.03 POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL, CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Personnel Policies shall be amended to attach as a part thereof Appendix
No. 1, “Policy and Procedure Manual, City Police Department,” and the whole
thereof shall be on file with the City Finance Office. Additional deletions,
modifications and amendments may be made by the City Council as an
administrative matter by resolution and shall be effective upon the adoption
and filing with the City Finance Office. The Finance Officer or his or her
designee shall keep and maintain a master copy of said policy, including all
future deletions, modifications and amendments which may be adopted by the City
Council as herein provided, and the same shall be available and subject to
public inspection at all times.
(Prior Code, § B-5-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-3, 60-4-2, 60-4-4, 60-4-5 and 60-4-
9 and SDCL Ch. 9-14 and 60-2
§ 33.04 SWIMMING POOL POLICY MANUAL.
   The Personnel Policies shall be amended to attach as a part thereof Appendix
No. 2, “Swimming Pool Policy Manual,” and the whole thereof shall be on file
with the City Finance Office. Additional deletions, modifications and
amendments may be made by the City Council as an administrative matter by
resolution and shall be effective upon the adoption and filing with the City
Finance Office. The Finance Officer or his or her designee shall keep and
maintain a master copy of said policy, including all future deletions,
modifications and amendments which may be adopted by the City Council as herein
provided, and the same shall be available and subject to public inspection at
all times.
(Prior Code, § B-5-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-3, 60-4-2, 60-4-4, 60-4-5 and 60-4-
9 and SDCL Ch. 9-14 and 60-2
CODE OF CONDUCT
§ 33.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure the efficient, fair and
professional administration of federal grants in compliance with federal Office
of Management and Budget Circular A-102, 59 FR 52224 (dated October 7, 1994,
published October 14, 1994) as further amended at 62 FR 45934 (August 29,
1997), and other applicable federal and state standards, regulations and laws.
(Prior Code, § U-1-2)
Editor’s note:
   Additionally, see Hatch Act, being 5 U.S.C. §§ 7321 through 7326; and 5
U.S.C.S. §§ 1501 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
§ 33.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENTS. Persons authorized to act on behalf of the city.   
   CONDUCT. The personal behavior of the officers, agents and employees of the
city while such persons are carrying out their official duties.
   EMPLOYEES. Persons employed by the city to perform certain duties who are
compensated for such performance and who are not considered independent
contractors.
   OFFICERS. Elected or appointed officials who are vested with some portion of
the function of government to be exercised for the public benefit.
(Prior Code, § U-1-1)
§ 33.17 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter applies to all officers, employees or agents of the city
engaged in the award or administration of contracts supported by federal grant
funds.
(Prior Code, § U-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 59-3-4 and 60-2-7
§ 33.18 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No officer, employee or agent of the city shall participate in the
selection, award or administration of a contract supported by federal funds if
the procedure for public bids under SDCL Ch. 5-18A through 5-18C has not been
followed and if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved.
   (B)   Such a conflict would arise when any of the following has a financial
or other interest in the firm selected for award:
      (1)   An employee, officer or agent of the city;
      (2)   Any member of the immediate family of such employee, officer or
agent of the city;
      (3)   The partner of any such employee, officer or agent of the city; or
      (4)   An organization which employs or is about to employ any of the
above.
   (C)   Officers, employees or agents of the city shall neither solicit nor
accept gratuities, favors or anything of more than nominal monetary value from
contractors, potential contractors or subcontractors.
(Prior Code, § U-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 59-3-4 and 60-2-8
§ 33.19 GIFT OR PROMISE OF FAVOR.
   No contractor, potential contractor, subcontractor or his or her agents
shall offer, provide or make any gift or promise of favor of more than nominal
value to any officer, employee or agent of the city who participates in the
selection, award or administration of a contract supported by federal funds.
(Prior Code, § U-1-5)
Editor’s note:
   Additionally, see Hatch Act, being 5 U.S.C. §§ 7321 through 7326; and 5
U.S.C.S. §§ 1501 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3 and SDCL Ch. 22-12A
§ 33.20 REMEDY.
   To the extent that is permitted by federal, state or local laws or
regulations, a violation of the standard of this subchapter may cause
penalties, sanctions or other disciplinary actions to be taken against the
officers, employees or agents of the city and/or against the contractors,
potential contractors, subcontractors or their agents.
(Prior Code, § U-1-6)
Editor’s note:
   Additionally, see Hatch Act, being 5 U.S.C. §§ 7321 through 7326; and 5
U.S.C.S. §§ 1501 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3 and SDCL Ch. 22-12A
LOBBYING RESTRICTIONS
§ 33.35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure that no federally appropriated
funds will be used to influence any federal agency or member, officer or
employee of Congress and to ensure strict compliance with federal policies
regarding the use of federally appropriated funds.
(Prior Code, § U-2-1)
§ 33.36 RESTRICTIONS.
   No federally appropriated funds will be paid to any person for influencing
or attempting to influence, on behalf of the city, an officer or employee of
any federal agency, a member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or
an employee of a member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any
federal contract, the making of any federal grant, the making of any federal
loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement and the extension,
continuation, renewal, amendment or modification of any federal contract,
grant, loan or cooperative agreement.
(Prior Code, § U-2-2)
Editor’s note:
   Additionally, see Hatch Act, being 5 U.S.C. §§ 7321 through 7326; and 5
U.S.C.S. §§ 1501 et seq.
§ 33.37 DISCLOSURE.
   If the City Council authorizes the expenditure of any funds to any person
for influencing or attempting to influence, on behalf of the city, an officer
or employee of any federal agency, a member of Congress, an officer or employee
of Congress or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with the
awarding of any federal contract, the making of any federal grant, the making
of any federal loan or the entering into of any cooperative agreement, the
Mayor shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report
Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(Prior Code, § U-2-3)
Editor’s note:
   Additionally, see Hatch Act, being 5 U.S.C. §§ 7321 through 7326; and 5
U.S.C.S. §§ 1501 et seq.
§ 33.38 DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED.
   The Mayor shall require that the language of this subchapter be included in
the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subgrants and
contract under grants, subgrants, loans and cooperative agreements) which
exceed $100,000 and that all such subrecipients shall certify and disclose
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § U-2-4)
Editor’s note:
   Additionally, see Hatch Act, being 5 U.S.C. §§ 7321 through 7326; and 5
U.S.C.S. §§ 1501 et seq.
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES AND REVENUE
Section
Municipal Sales, Service and Use Tax
   
34.01   Purpose
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Effective date
   
34.04   Collection
   
34.05   Exemptions
   
34.06   Use tax
   
34.07   Interpretation
   
34.08   Use of revenue
Local Option Taxes
   
34.20   Purpose
   
34.21   Definitions
   
34.22   Tax on lodging rentals, eating establishment sales and intoxicating
liquor and malt beverage retail sales
   
34.23   Tax on ticket sales and amusements
   
34.24   Use of revenue
   
34.25   Collection
Discretionary Tax Formula
   
34.40   Purpose
   
34.41   Industrial and commercial structures
   
34.42   Discretionary formula applied
Special Maintenance Fees
   
34.55   Purpose
   
34.56   Special maintenance fee for street maintenance and repair
   
34.57   Fee apportioned on a front foot basis and levied accordingly
 
   
34.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL SALES, SERVICE AND USE TAX
§ 34.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the city by imposing a municipal retail sales and use tax pursuant to the
powers granted to the municipality by the state by SDCL Ch. 10-52, entitled
“Uniform Municipal Non-Ad Valorem Tax Law,” and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § F-1-2) (Ord. 824, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 10-52-2
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any activity engaged in by any person, or caused to be engaged in
by him or her, with the object of gain, benefit or advantage, either direct or
indirect.   
   GROSS RECEIPTS.
      (1)   The total amount or consideration, including cash, credit, property
and services, for which tangible personal property or services are sold, leased
or rented, valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, without any
deduction for the following: the retailer’s cost of the property or service
sold; the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, interest, losses, all
costs of transportation to the retailer and all taxes imposed on the retailer
and any other expense of the retailer; except as provided in SDCL Ch. 10-46A or
10-46B, charges by the retailer for any services necessary to complete the
sale, whether or not separately stated, including delivery charges; and the
value of exempt tangible personal property, whether or not separately stated on
the invoice, billing or similar document given to the purchaser where taxable
and exempt tangible personal property have been bundled together and sold by
the retailer as a single product or piece of merchandise.
      (2)   GROSS RECEIPTS do not include: discounts, including cash, term or
coupons that are not reimbursed by a third party that are allowed by a retailer
and taken by a purchaser on a sale; interest, financing and carrying charges
from credit extended on the sale of tangible personal property or services, if
the amount is separately stated on the invoice, bill of sale or similar
document given to the purchaser; and any taxes legally imposed directly on the
consumer that are separately stated on the invoice, bill of sale or similar
document given to the purchaser.
   NON-AD VALOREM TAX. Any tax other than an ad valorem real property tax.   
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, copartnership, joint adventure, association,
limited liability company, corporation, municipal corporation, estate, trust,
business trust, receiver, this state and its political subdivisions or any
group or combination acting as a unit.
   RETAIL SALE or SALE AT RETAIL. Any sale, lease or rental for any purpose
other than for resale, sublease or subrent.
   RETAILER. Any person engaged in the business of selling tangible goods,
wares or merchandise at retail, or the furnishing of gas, electricity, water
and communication service, or tickets or admissions to places of amusement and
athletic events, as provided in this chapter. The term also includes any person
subject to the tax imposed by SDCL §§ 10-45-4 and 10-45-5. The isolated or
occasional sale of tangible personal property at retail by a person who does
not hold himself or herself out as engaging in the business of selling such
tangible personal property at retail does not constitute such person a
RETAILER.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in any
manner or by any means whatsoever, for a consideration.
(Prior Code, § F-1-1) (Ord. 824, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 10-45-1 and 10-52-1
§ 34.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   From and after January 1, 2004, there is hereby imposed, as a municipal
retail occupational sales and service tax upon the privilege of engaging in
business, a tax measured by 2% of the gross receipts of all persons engaged in
business within the jurisdiction of the city who are subject to the state’s
retail occupational sales and service tax, SDCL Ch. 10-45, and acts amendatory
thereto.
(Prior Code, § F-1-3) (Ord. 824, passed - -; Ord. 826, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 10-52-2 and 10-52-9
§ 34.04 COLLECTION.
   The tax authorized by this subchapter is levied pursuant to the
authorization granted by SDCL Ch. 10-52, and acts amendatory thereto, and shall
be collected by the state’s Department of Revenue in accordance with the same
rules and regulations applicable to the state sales tax and under such
additional rules and regulations as the Secretary of Revenue of the state shall
lawfully prescribe.
(Prior Code, § F-1-4) (Ord. 824, passed - -) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 10-52-4 and 10-52-5
§ 34.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions to the non-ad valorem taxes set out in this subchapter shall be
the same exemptions as set out in SDCL Ch. 10-45, 10-46 and 10-52, and all acts
amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § F-1-5) (Ord. 824, passed - -)
§ 34.06 USE TAX.
   In addition, there is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of the
use, storage and consumption of tangible personal property within the
jurisdiction of the city and purchased from and after January 1, 2004, at the
same rate as the municipal sales and service tax upon all transactions or use,
storage and consumption which are subject to the state’s use tax, SDCL Ch. 10-
46, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § F-1-6) (Ord. 824, passed - -) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 10-52-2
§ 34.07 INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the state’s retail occupational sales and service tax, SDCL
Ch. 10-45, and acts amendatory thereto, and the state’s use tax, SDCL Ch. 10-
46, and acts amendatory thereto, and that this shall be considered a similar
tax.
(Prior Code, § F-1-7) (Ord. 824, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 10-52-2
§ 34.08 USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   Any revenue received under this subchapter in excess of 1% may be used
only for capital improvements, land acquisition or debt retirement, with a
minimum of 0.10% dedicated toward street capital improvements.
(Prior Code, § F-1-10)
   (B)   Capital improvements shall be as defined by SDCL § 5-14-1, and acts
amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § F-1-11)
(Ord. 824, passed - -; Ord. 826, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 5-14-1 and 10-52-2
LOCAL OPTION TAXES
§ 34.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the city by imposing a tax upon the gross receipts from the rental of lodging
establishments received from transient guests, upon gross receipts of all sales
within eating establishments and upon gross receipts of all retail sales of
intoxicating and malt beverages, pursuant to the powers granted to a
municipality by the state by SDCL Ch. 10-52, entitled “Uniform Municipal Non-Ad
Valorem Tax Law,” and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § F-2-2) (Ord. 824, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3 and SDCL Ch. 10-52A
§ 34.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, structure, property or premises kept,
used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public to be a place where the
public is invited to eat, dine or purchase and carry out prepared food for
immediate consumption.
   LODGING ESTABLISHMENTS. Any building, structure, property or premises kept,
maintained, advertised or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are furnished in two or more rental units to transient guests,
or space which is provided for transient persons to park transportable
recreational housing or camping facilities in travel parks, as defined in Ch.
155 of this code.
   ON-SALE LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENT. Establishments duly licensed pursuant to SDCL
Title 35.
   ON-SALE MALT BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Establishments duly licensed pursuant
to SDCL Title 35.
   TRANSIENT GUEST. Any person who resides in a lodging establishment less than
28 consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § F-2-1) (Ord. 824, passed - -; Ord. 986, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 10-52-8 and SDCL Title 35
§ 34.22 TAX ON LODGING RENTALS, EATING ESTABLISHMENT SALES AND INTOXICATING
LIQUOR AND MALT BEVERAGE RETAIL SALES.
   From and after January 1, 2004, there is hereby imposed an additional tax of
1%, over and above that previously imposed by §
34.03 of this chapter, upon the gross receipts from rental of lodging
establishments received from transient guests; and upon the gross receipts of
all sales within eating establishments; and upon the gross receipts of retail
sales of intoxicating and malt beverages.
(Prior Code, § F-2-3) (Ord. 824, passed - -) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Ch. 10-52A
§ 34.23 TAX ON TICKET SALES AND AMUSEMENTS.
   From and after January 1, 2004, there is hereby imposed an additional tax of
1%, over and above that previously imposed by §
34.03 of this chapter, upon the gross receipts from ticket sales or admission
to places of amusement, athletic and cultural events.
(Prior Code, § F-2-4) (Ord. 824, passed - -) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Ch. 10-52A
§ 34.24 USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   The additional 1% tax herein imposed shall be used solely for the
purpose of land acquisition, architectural fees, construction costs, payments
for civic center, auditorium or athletic facility buildings, including the
maintenance, staffing and operation of such facilities, and for the promotion
and advertising of the city, its facilities, attractions and activities.
   (B)   Taxes imposed by this subchapter shall conform in all respects to the
state sales and use tax on such items, with the exception of the rate.
(Prior Code, § F-2-5) (Ord. 824, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Ch. 10-52A
§ 34.25 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL Ch. 10-52,
which shall be collected by the state’s Department of Revenue in accordance
with the same rules and regulations applicable to the state sales tax and under
such additional rules and regulations as the Department of Revenue shall
lawfully prescribe.
(Prior Code, § F-2-6) (Ord. 824, passed - -) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 10-52-4 and 10-52-5
DISCRETIONARY TAX FORMULA
§ 34.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to provide for a discretionary tax
formula for reduced taxation of new structures and additional and partially
constructed structures pursuant to SDCL § 10-6-137.
(Prior Code, § F-3-1) (Ord. 1045, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 10-6-138
§ 34.41 INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any structure classified pursuant to this section shall,
following construction, be valued for taxation purposes in the usual manner.
However, the board of county commissioners of the county where the structure is
located may adopt any formula for assessed value to be used for tax purposes.
The formula may include, for any or all of the five tax years following
construction, all, any portion or none of the assessed valuation for tax
purposes. Any formula adopted shall be equally applied to specifically
classified structures within a tax increment finance district.
      (2)   The board of county commissioners of the county where the structure
is located, may, if requested by the owner of the structure, not apply the
discretionary formula, and the full assessment shall be made without
application of the formula. In waiving the formula for the structure of one
owner, the board of county commissioners is not prohibited from applying the
formula for subsequent new structures.
      (3)   The assessed valuation during any of the five years may not be less
than the assessed valuation of the property in the year preceding the first
year of the tax years following construction.
   (B)   Any structure that is partially constructed on the assessment date may
be valued for tax purposes pursuant to this section, and the valuation may not
be less than the assessed valuation of the property in the year preceding the
beginning of construction. The period that the property is valued for tax
purposes under this section may include the years when the property is
partially constructed.
   (C)   Following the five-year period under this section, the property shall
be assessed at the same percentage as is all other property for tax purposes.
   (D)   Any of the following types of real property may be specifically
classified for the purpose of taxation pursuant to this section:
      (1)   Any new industrial or commercial structure, or any addition,
renovation or reconstruction to an existing structure, located within a
designated urban renewal area, as defined in SDCL § 11-8-4, if the new
structure, addition, renovation or reconstruction has a full and true value of
$30,000 or more;
      (2)   Any new industrial structure, including a power generation
facility, or an addition to an existing structure if the new structure or
addition has a full and true value of $30,000 or more;
      (3)   Any new nonresidential agricultural structure, or any addition to
an existing structure, if the new structure or addition has a full and true
value of $10,000 or more;
      (4)   Any new commercial structure, or any addition to an existing
structure, except a commercial residential structure as described in division
(D)(5) below, if the new structure or addition has a full and true value of
$30,000 or more;
      (5)   Any new commercial residential structure, or addition to an
existing structure, containing four or more units if the new structure or
addition has a full and true value of $30,000 or more;
      (6)   Any new affordable housing structure containing four or more units
with a monthly rental rate of the units at or below the annually calculated
rent for the state’s 60% area median income being used by the state’s Housing
Development Authority, for a minimum of ten years following the date of first
occupancy, if the structure has a full and true value of $30,000 or more;
      (7)   Any new residential structure, or addition to or renovation of an
existing structure, located within a redevelopment neighborhood established
pursuant to SDCL § 10-6-141 if the new structure, addition or renovation has a
full and true value of $5,000 or more. The structure shall be located in an
area defined and designated as a redevelopment neighborhood based on conditions
provided in SDCL §§ 11-7-2 or 11-7-3; or
      (8)   Any commercial, industrial or nonresidential agricultural property
which increases more than $10,000 in full and true value as a result of
reconstruction or renovation of the structure.
(Prior Code, § F-3-2) (Ord. 1045, passed - -) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 10-6-137 and 10-6-138
§ 34.42 DISCRETIONARY FORMULA APPLIED.
   The assessed value to be used for tax purposes of any structure classified
pursuant to this subchapter shall, following construction, be calculated as
follows.
   (A)   Five-year discretionary formula table for §
34.41(D)(1) through (D)(4) shall be as follows:
      (1)   For the first tax year following construction, 20% of the pre-
adjustment value;
      (2)   For the second tax year the following construction, 40% of the pre-
adjustment value;
      (3)   For the third tax year following construction, 60% of the pre-
adjustment value;
      (4)   For the fourth tax year following construction, 80% of the pre-
adjustment value; and
      (5)   For the fifth tax year following construction, 100% of the pre-
adjustment value.
   (B)   Seven-year discretionary formula table for §
34.41(D)(5) through (D)(7) shall be as follows:
      (1)   For the first tax year following construction, 25% of the pre-
adjustment value;
      (2)   For the second tax year the following construction, 25% of the pre-
adjustment value;
      (3)   For the third tax year following construction, 50% of the pre-
adjustment value;
      (4)   For the fourth tax year following construction, 50% of the pre-
adjustment value;
      (5)   For the fifth tax year following construction, 75% of the pre-
adjustment value;
      (6)   For the sixth tax year following construction, 75% of the pre-
adjustment value; and
      (7)   For the seventh tax year following construction, 100% of the pre-
adjustment value.
(Prior Code, § F-3-3) (Ord. 1045, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 10-6-138 and 13-13-20.4
SPECIAL MAINTENANCE FEES
§ 34.55 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish authority for a special
maintenance fee for annual maintenance and repair of street surfacing.
(Prior Code, § K-6-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-43-138
§ 34.56 SPECIAL MAINTENANCE FEE FOR STREET MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   The City Council, prior to the assessment of real property within the city
for the next fiscal year, may levy annually, for the purpose of maintaining or
repairing street surfacing or pavement, a special maintenance fee set annually
by resolution upon the lots fronting and abutting the street but no less than
25 feet. Such funds received from this assessment shall be used only for the
maintenance and repairing of existing streets.
(Prior Code, § K-6-2) (Ord. 925, passed - -) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.57 FEE APPORTIONED ON A FRONT FOOT BASIS AND LEVIED ACCORDINGLY.
   (A)   The City Council, prior to the assessment of real property, may, by
resolution, designate the lot or portion of lots against which the assessment
is to be levied and the amount of the assessment against each lot or portions
thereof for such purposes; notify the Director of Equalization to add the
assessment to the general assessment against the property; and certify the
assessment together with the regular assessment to the County Auditor, to be
collected as taxes for the city for any general purposes. The assessment fee is
subject to review and equalization the same as assessments or taxes for general
purposes.
   (B)   FRONT FOOT, for the purposes of this subchapter, means the actual
front of the premises as established by the buildings thereon, record title and
use of the property, regardless of the original plat but shall not be less than
25 feet.
(Prior Code, § K-6-3) (Ord. 925, passed - -)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
34.01 through
34.08 of this code and the rules and regulations relating to the determination
and collection of the tax therein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. In addition, all such collection remedies authorized by
SDCL Ch. 10-45, and acts amendatory thereto, and SDCL Ch. 10-46, and acts
amendatory thereto, are hereby authorized for the collection of these excise
taxes by the Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § F-1-8)
   (C)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
34.20 through
34.25 of this chapter and the rules and regulations relating to the
determination and collection of the tax therein levied shall be fined as
provided for in §
10.99 of this code. In addition, all collection remedies authorized by SDCL Ch.
10-45 and 10-46 are hereby authorized for collection of these taxes by the
Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § F-2-7)
(Ord. 824, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 10-52-4
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   UTILITY RATES, FEES AND DEPOSITS
      
52.   ELECTRIC SERVICE
      
53.   WATER SERVICE
      
54.   SEWER SERVICE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Authority
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Office of Public Works Authority
   
50.03   Electrical Department Authority
   
50.04   Water Department Authority
   
50.05   Sewer Department Authority
   
50.06   Municipal utility service agreement; granting access
Utility Connections
   
50.20   Purpose
   
50.21   Application for utility connections
   
50.22   Application process
   
50.23   Decision on applications
   
50.24   Connection of electrical utilities
   
50.25   New electrical service lines to be underground
   
50.26   Responsibility for utility service line maintenance
   
50.27   Utility meters
   
50.28   Notice to owners to repair lines and fixtures
   
50.29   Abatement and assessment of costs
   
50.30   Notice to owners to repair or replace services due to public
improvements
Utility Billing
   
50.45   Purpose
   
50.46   Due date
   
50.47   Delinquent bills
   
50.48   Notice of delinquency
   
50.49   Opportunity for hearing
   
50.50   Disconnection and reconnection
   
50.51   Reconnection after past-due account turned over to collection agency
   
50.52   Forfeit of deposit
   
50.53   Rental properties where tenants billed directly
   
50.54   Notice to tenants when landlord or landlady billed
   
50.55   Partial disconnection; how payments are credited
   
50.56   Exceptions
   
50.57   Closing out utility accounts; final billings
AUTHORITY
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to describe the authority granted to the
Office of Public Works, Electrical Department, Water Department and Sewer
Department of the city regarding its usage and maintenance of municipal
utilities.
(Prior Code, § C-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-27
§ 50.02 OFFICE OF PUBLIC WORKS AUTHORITY.
   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee, the City Superintendent
or his or her designee, the chief law enforcement officer or any other
department supervisor is hereby authorized to negotiate with property owners
for the purpose of ensuring compliance with codes or specifications within a
given time from notice of violation. All agreements must be ratified by the
City Council. Said municipal employees are not authorized to suspend
ordinances, specifications or codes, but may delay enforcement or extend the
period permitted for compliance for a reasonable time pursuant to a written
promise by the affected party to comply.
(Prior Code, § C-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-1-5 and 9-14-27
§ 50.03 ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY.
   In order to ensure the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the
city, any officer or employee of the city is hereby authorized to investigate
unexplained loss of electrical energy, abnormal electrical meter readings and
any other phenomenon indicating that electrical energy is being used but not
paid for according to this code, or is being mishandled or misused in a manner
that may create a hazardous condition, or resold to tenants or households other
than that of the person in whose name the electrical energy is supplied. Any
municipal employee may, during the course of official business, enter upon
private property to investigate service or transmission facilities of the
municipal electric system located thereon and, if necessary for the protection
of the public, discontinue service.
(Prior Code, § C-3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-39-23 and 9-40-1
§ 50.04 WATER DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY.
   In order to ensure the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the
city, any officer or employee of the city is hereby authorized to investigate
unexplained loss of water quantity or pressure, abnormal water meter readings
and any other phenomenon indicating that municipal water service is being used
but not paid for according to this code, or is being mishandled or misused in a
manner that may create a hazardous condition, or resold to tenants or
households other than as allowed by agreement with the city and in the name of
the person to whom the water utility is supplied. Any municipal employee,
during the course of official business, may enter upon private property to
investigate service or transmission facilities of the municipal water system
located thereon and, if necessary for the protection of the public, discontinue
service.
(Prior Code, § C-3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-40-1
§ 50.05 SEWER DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY.
   In order to ensure the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the
city, any officer or employee of the city is hereby authorized to investigate
the unexplained use of the municipal sewer system and any other phenomenon
indicating that the municipal sewer service is being used but not paid for
according to this code or is being mishandled or misused in a manner that may
create a hazardous condition, or resold to tenants or households other than as
allowed by agreement with the city and in the name of the person to whom the
municipal sewer service is supplied. Any municipal employee may, during the
course of official business, enter upon private property to investigate service
or transmission facilities of the municipal sewer system located thereon and,
if necessary for the protection of the public, discontinue service.
(Prior Code, § C-3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-40-1
§ 50.06 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICE AGREEMENT; GRANTING ACCESS.
   To ensure the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the city, when a
citizen of the city agrees to purchase utility services from the city, that
citizen is deemed by the request of such service to grant the city and its
officers and employees the reasonable and necessary access to such person’s
private land for the purposes of maintaining, repairing, inspecting and
operating the municipal utility service. Such access is granted only to city
employees and officers while in performance of their official duties in
furtherance of the operation, repair, inspection or maintenance of municipal
utility transmission facilities that are owned or operated and maintained by
the city. This section shall not be construed to impose any duty or
responsibility on the city to maintain, repair or inspect the service owned by
the other contracting party to a municipality utility service. Any person who
refuses the terms set out in this section shall be guilty of violating this
section and penalized according to the provisions of §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § C-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
UTILITY CONNECTIONS
§ 50.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the rules and regulations
regarding utility connections to municipal utilities provided by the city.
These rules and regulations shall include the application process, connections,
maintenance and repair procedures.
(Prior Code, § H-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-39-23
§ 50.21 APPLICATION FOR UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   Any person wishing to have structures, facilities or property connected to
city utility systems must make application for such connection at the City
Finance Office. If the application is for new construction, such application
may be consolidated with the application for a building permit.
(Prior Code, § H-4-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-39-23
§ 50.22 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   Upon receiving application for connection of utilities, the Finance Officer
or his or her designee shall collect all fees and deposits required under
Ch. 51 of this code, shall require that the proper agreement for utilities
service is executed by the appropriate party and shall forward the application
to the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § H-4-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-39-23
§ 50.23 DECISION ON APPLICATIONS.
   Upon receipt of the application with information indicating compliance with
fee, deposit and agreement requirements, the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee shall determine if the proposed installation or connection
complies with applicable city ordinance, and upon being satisfied that it does,
may authorize the service to be connected. If the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee rejects the application, a reason shall be given and
corrective action explained at the time of the rejection. The applicant shall
have the option to obtain a refund of fees and deposits paid at that time or
may agree to rectify the problem. In the latter instance, the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee must be satisfied that the problem is, in
fact, rectified, and may then authorize the service to be connected.
(Prior Code, § H-4-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-39-23
§ 50.24 CONNECTION OF ELECTRICAL UTILITIES.
   City employees of the Electrical Department will connect the required
electrical utilities at the earliest opportunity available.
(Prior Code, § H-4-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-39-23
§ 50.25 NEW ELECTRICAL SERVICE LINES TO BE UNDERGROUND.
   All new, repaired or replaced electrical service lines connecting with city
main lines shall be placed underground from and after the effective date of
this section.
(Prior Code, § H-4-6.1) (Ord. 1009, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL 9-39-1
§ 50.26 RESPONSIBILITY FOR UTILITY SERVICE LINE MAINTENANCE.
   The city is obligated to maintain utility lines only to the point of
connection with the individual service. The property owner is responsible for
the maintenance of water and sewer lines from the tap on the city main to and
inside the property. The property owner is responsible and liable for the
maintenance of secondary electrical lines from the tap on the final
distribution transformer or from the tap on the final distribution system to
and inside the property line. All taps shall be made by the city and shall
remain the responsibility of the city.
(Prior Code, § H-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-23 and 9-47-1
§ 50.27 UTILITY METERS.
   The meter placed in the electrical and water lines shall remain the property
of the city and may not be altered, replaced or removed except by city
personnel or duly authorized contractors as defined in §
110.03 of this code.
(Prior Code, § H-4-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-23 and 9-47-1
§ 50.28 NOTICE TO OWNERS TO REPAIR LINES AND FIXTURES.
   Whenever it is necessary due to deterioration, accident or natural event to
repair or replace an electric service line, water service line or sewer service
line, or a fixture of any service line to the current city standards, the city
shall notify all owners of record on which the fixture or service line lies to
repair or replace the fixture to the current city standard at their own expense
within a designated time. Such notice shall be served by certified mail or hand
delivered with proof of service.
(Prior Code, § H-4-8) (Ord. 1009, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1, 9-39-23, 9-47-1 and 9-48-2
§ 50.29 ABATEMENT AND ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   If the service line or fixture is not repaired or replaced in the manner and
within the prescribed time pursuant to notice served upon owners of record
under the authority of this chapter, the governing body shall cause the work to
be done, and the cost of all materials, installation and necessary easements
that may be required shall be charged to the lot or parcel. The City Finance
Officer or his or her designee shall certify the costs to be charged to each
lot or parcel to the County Auditor, which shall be collected as other taxes in
and for the city. The City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall also
file a tax lien with the County Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § H-4-9) (Ord. 1009, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-23 and 9-47-1 and SDCL Ch. 9-43
§ 50.30 NOTICE TO OWNERS TO REPAIR OR REPLACE SERVICES DUE TO PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   From time to time, the city may make repairs or replace the
streets and utility systems that will require the underlying or attached
service fixtures and lines to be repaired or replaced to the current city
standard from the point of connection to the city fixture and line to meter or
structure served. When the city has scheduled repair or replacement for the
connecting main lines or scheduled improvements of the overlying infrastructure
that may be damaged by an anticipated or projected service fixture and line
repair or replacement, the city may require the service fixtures and lines to
be repaired or replaced to the current city standard from the city main to the
meter or structure served.
      (2)   The City Public Works Director or his or her designee shall provide
notice, by certified mail or hand delivered with proof of service, to all
property owners of record on which the affected service fixtures or service
lines lie of the determination that the service fixtures and lines are required
to be repaired or replaced to the current city standard. Such notice must
specify the upgrade to be made and the date by which it must be completed,
which may not be less than 60 days from receipt by the property owner of the
notice.
      (3)   If the service line or fixture is not repaired or replaced in the
manner and within the time prescribed in the notice, the city or its designee
may cause the work to be done to the meter or to the structure served. If the
city causes the work to be done, the cost of such upgrades shall be charged to
the lot or parcel owner. The City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall
certify the costs to be charged to each lot or parcel to the County Auditor,
which shall be collected as other taxes in and for the city. The City Finance
Officer or his or her designee shall also file a tax lien with the County
Register of Deeds.
   (B)   SERVICE FIXTURE AND LINE UPGRADES, for purposes of this section, shall
include, but not be limited to, the replacement of overhead electrical service
lines with underground electrical service lines, the repair or replacement of
water services and the repair or replacement of sewer services to the current
city standard.
(Prior Code, § H-4-10) (Ord. 918, passed - -; Ord. 1009, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1, 9-39-23 and 9-48-2
UTILITY BILLING
§ 50.45 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules and regulations in
regards to the billing procedures for municipal utility services. This
subchapter shall include policy provisions regarding delinquent bills,
disconnection procedures and forfeiture of deposits and also the procedures for
reconnection to municipal utility services.
(Prior Code, § H-6-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1, 9-39-23, 9-40-1, 9-47-1 and 9-48-2
§ 50.46 DUE DATE.
   All fees and charges for utilities and utility services furnished by the
city are due and payable on the first day of the calendar month following the
period in which such utilities and utility services were supplied or rendered.
The City Council may enter into such agreements with financial institutions as
it sees fit that are designed to allow automatic payments of utility bills.
(Prior Code, § H-6-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1, 9-39-23 and 9-40-1
§ 50.47 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   All fees and charges for municipal utilities and utility services not
received by the city prior to the close of business on the fifteenth day of the
month shall be declared delinquent; a late charge of 5% of the total amount
appearing on the billing statement or $1, whichever is greater, which must then
be paid in addition to the fees and charges stated in the original billing
statement. All governmental subdivisions and activated military personnel
during the respective period of activation, upon proof of activation, are
exempt from said delinquent charge. In the event the fifteenth day falls upon a
weekend or other holiday, the late charge will not accrue until the next
succeeding business day.
(Prior Code, § H-6-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1, 9-39-23 and 9-40-1
§ 50.48 NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY.
   Notice of the delinquency of the account, the imposition of late charges and
reminder that the recipient may appear before the City Council concerning the
unpaid utility bill shall be sent by first-class mail to all delinquent
accounts. The notice must state the grounds on which the proposed disconnect is
based, the city’s intention to disconnect service unless the customer takes
corrective action and the corrective action which the customer must take to
avoid disconnection.
(Prior Code, § H-6-4) (Ord. 942, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1, 9-39-23 and 9-40-1
§ 50.49 OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING.
   (A)   The billing statement issued on the first day of the month shall
provide notice that the City Council shall, at its second regular meeting of
each month, provide an opportunity for anyone disputing a city utility bill or
requesting different arrangements for payment of an uncontested bill to be
heard. Notification of intent to appear before the Council at the second
meeting of the month must be given to the Finance Officer or his or her
designee by the twelfth of the month in which the bill is due. Failure to
appear before the Council at the second meeting of the month in which the bill
is due constitutes waiver of the right to be heard, and the utility account is
then subject to disconnection as established in §
50.50 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Finance Officer or his or her designee shall inform any individual
appearing before the City Council of the decision within three days of the
hearing. The City Council shall have the power to waive late charges and/or any
portion of the unpaid balance if it is in the best interest of the city.
(Prior Code, § H-6-5) (Ord. 942, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-39-23
§ 50.50 DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION.
   (A)   Disconnection. If all fees and charges for municipal utilities and
utility services have not been received by the city on or before the twenty-
seventh day following the date of the billing for the period in which such
utilities and utility services were supplied or rendered, including any
outstanding returned payments for utility services, on the twenty-eighth day or
the next business day, the city may disconnect the utility service connection
or metering device for all or part of the utility services supplied but not
paid.
   (B)   Reconnection. Such utilities, once disconnected, may be reconnected
only by a city employee at the direction of the Finance Officer or his or her
designee. The Finance Officer or his or her designee shall order reconnection
only upon payment of the full amount due (including late charge, if
applicable), plus a new deposit if the existing deposit was applied toward the
outstanding balance, plus a nonrefundable reconnect charge of $40 plus tax; if
a reconnect is requested after hours or on Saturday, Sunday, a legal holiday or
at a time when the city’s business offices are not open to the public, the
reconnect fee charged will be $60 plus tax.
(Prior Code, § H-6-6) (Ord. 899, passed - -; Ord. 935, passed - -; Ord. 942,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1 and 9-39-23
§ 50.51 RECONNECTION AFTER PAST-DUE ACCOUNT TURNED OVER TO COLLECTION AGENCY.
   Any person seeking to reconnect any utility after the said utility account
has been turned over to a collection agency may be reconnected only upon
payment of said charges in §
50.50 of this chapter plus the city’s costs incurred by the turnover to the
collection agency.
(Prior Code, § H-6-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1 and 9-39-23
§ 50.52 FORFEIT OF DEPOSIT.
   If a utility bill remains unpaid 30 days after billing, the deposit shall be
applied toward the outstanding balance, and the current utility deposit must be
paid before service is reconnected.
(Prior Code, § H-6-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1, 9-39-23 and 9-40-1
§ 50.53 RENTAL PROPERTIES WHERE TENANTS BILLED DIRECTLY.
   Landlords, landladies or property owners whose tenants are billed directly
by the city may be assured of notice prior to disconnection of service if such
landlord, landlady or property owner has requested, in writing, that he or she
be sent notice of his or her tenants’ delinquent utility bills. In the event
that the tenants fail to pay the utility bills as provided herein, the property
owner may avert interruption of service to the property by payment of the
outstanding amount before the fourteenth day following the day the bill became
delinquent.
(Prior Code, § H-6-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1, 9-39-23 and 9-40-1
§ 50.54 NOTICE TO TENANTS WHEN LANDLORD OR LANDLADY BILLED.
   Utility service to tenants, where the billings for utilities and services
are made to the landlord or landlady, may not be terminated prior to ten days
from notice of delinquent account. In such cases, notice of delinquent account
must be posted conspicuously on the premises, as well as mailed first-class to
the landlord or landlady in whose name the utilities account is maintained.
Notice of opportunity for hearing before the City Council must be included in
the posted notice.
(Prior Code, § H-6-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1, 9-39-23 and 9-40-1
§ 50.55 PARTIAL DISCONNECTION; HOW PAYMENTS ARE CREDITED.
   If a utility bill is only partially unpaid, only the utility not paid for
may be disconnected or interrupted. Payments otherwise undesignated will be
credited first to the sales tax, secondly to sewer, third to water and finally
to electric and other charges.
(Prior Code, § H-6-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1, 9-39-23 and 9-40-1
§ 50.56 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Electrical service may not be disconnected under this chapter if such
measures would be reasonably expected to immediately endanger the health or
safety of a building occupant who has established, at the hearing provided for
in §
50.49 of this chapter, that they cannot, by reasonable effort, find shelter or
housing elsewhere.
   (B)   The city utility service may continue for a single 30-day period upon
receipt and approval by the governing body of a physician’s certificate that
disconnection of utility service would aggravate an existing medical emergency
or other urgent circumstances of the customer or another permanent resident in
the customer’s premises.
   (C)   If the city continues electrical service under this section, it
reserves the right to take such measures as the City Superintendent or his or
her designee shall see fit to minimize power consumption or loss to the city.
The city does not waive its right to ultimate payment by this section, but may
waive its right to timely or immediate payment.
(Prior Code, § H-6-12) (Ord. 899, passed - -; Ord. 942, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1, 9-39-23 and 9-40-1
§ 50.57 CLOSING OUT UTILITY ACCOUNTS; FINAL BILLINGS.
   Utility customers are required to inform the city on the closeout of
municipal utility services for their utility service address. Upon presentment
of updated contact information and application of any refundable deposit for
security, subject to §
51.016(C) of this code, utility services for the respective account will be
finalized and final meter readings will serve to calculate the final utility
fees and charges for the utility account. Utility accounts will be finalized on
the date of final reading of utility meters, and any fees or charges for
utility services shall be prorated based upon the number of days occupied since
the previous date that utility metering devices were read by the city for
utility billing purposes.
(Prior Code, § H-6-13) (Ord. 899, passed - -; Ord. 942, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: UTILITY RATES, FEES AND DEPOSITS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose
General Fees and Deposits
   
51.015   One-time connection fees
   
51.016   Refundable meter deposits
   
51.017   Meter testing fee
Electricity
   
51.030   Electric utility rates
Water
   
51.045   Water services rates, residential and nonresidential
   
51.046   Permit or license for service beyond city boundaries
   
51.047   Rates in case of water meter failure
Sewer
   
51.060   Purpose
   
51.061   Definitions
   
51.062   Determining total annual cost of operation and maintenance
   
51.063   Rate determination
   
51.064   Minimum rates and monthly charge
   
51.065   Special arrangements for nonresidential users
   
51.066   Notification of user rates
   
51.067   Special rates
   
51.068   Review of each user’s wastewater service charge
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish reasonable rates, fees and
deposits for connection to and use of the municipal utility services, including
electric utility rates, water utility rates, sewer utility rates and also meter
deposit charges in association with the use and monitoring of these utilities.
(Prior Code, § H-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-35-1, 9-39-23, 9-48-26 through 9-48-28 and
9-48-31
GENERAL FEES AND DEPOSITS
§ 51.015 ONE-TIME CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   The following one-time connection fees must be paid in full before the
service can be energized.
      (1)   Electric connection fees.
         (a)   Residential electric connection fee. A nonrefundable, one-time
fee in the amount of $500, plus applicable taxes, shall be paid for a 200 amp,
single-phase electric service prior to the permanent connection of a new
service. The actual cost for labor and materials shall be paid by the
residential customer for modifying or altering an existing service. A
nonrefundable, one-time fee in the amount of $850, plus applicable taxes, shall
be paid for a 400 amp, single-phase electric service. Electric service greater
than a 400 amp, single-phase electric service will follow the same cost
participation as the commercial electric connection fee.
         (b)   Commercial electric connection fee. Prior to the connection of a
new service or upgrade, a written estimate of the cost, including, but not
limited to, wire, transformer, trenching, labor and miscellaneous materials,
shall be prepared by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee and
presented to the owner or his or her designee for approval. One hundred percent
of the actual cost of installation, along with the appropriate deposit as
required by §
51.016 of this chapter, plus applicable taxes, shall be paid prior to the
permanent connection or reconnection of the service.
      (2)   Temporary electric service fee. A nonrefundable, one-time fee in
the amount of $65, plus applicable taxes, shall be paid for a temporary
electric service prior to the connection of the service.
      (3)   Utility account connection fee. Notwithstanding and in addition to
any other fee prescribed in this chapter, a nonrefundable utility account
connection fee of $10, plus applicable taxes, shall be paid in addition to the
refundable meter deposit as prescribed in §
51.016 of this chapter prior to the connection or the transfer of the utility
account.
   (B)   In all cases where the city must expend more than the connection fee
to obtain a connection satisfactory to the city, such additional expense shall
be borne by the owner and paid prior to approval of the connection.
(Prior Code, § H-5-2) (Ord. 821, passed - -; Ord. 851, passed - -; Ord. 870,
passed - -; Ord. 878, passed - -; Ord. 883, passed - -)
§ 51.016 REFUNDABLE METER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   A refundable deposit for security on the utility meters shall be paid
prior to the connection or transfer of the utility account.
   (B)   The deposits shall be:
 
Class                                   Amount
Commercial
   Large commercial                  $400, plus applicable taxes
   Small commercial                  $150, plus applicable taxes
Residential
   With a favorable credit reference $100, plus applicable taxes
   Without a favorable credit referen$200, plus applicable taxes
 
   (C)   Subject to §§
50.50 and
50.52 of this code, when a utility customer terminates service without a
transfer to a new service address and all city property associated with the
terminated service is accounted for, then the deposit imposed under this
section shall be returned immediately or applied to the utility customer’s
final bill. The Finance Officer shall provide a report to the City Council of
all paid returned deposits at the next City Council meeting for ratification.
(Prior Code, § H-5-3) (Ord. 883, passed - -; Ord. 935, passed - -; Ord. 1017,
passed - -)
§ 51.017 METER TESTING FEE.
   A fee of $10, plus applicable taxes, shall be charged to any occupant or
owner of premises who desires to have his or her water meter tested as provided
for in §
53.25 of this code.
(Prior Code, § H-5-4) (Ord. 883, passed - -)
ELECTRICITY
§ 51.030 ELECTRIC UTILITY RATES.
   (A)   Rates by customer class. The charge for each kilowatt hour of
electrical power registered on the electric meter or meters for the premises
shall be as follows.
      (1)   Generally.
Class Amount
Class                                        Amount
Commercial Customers
Large commercial customers
   Customer charge                        $36.50 per month
   Demand charge (per kWh)
      June—August                    $16.70
      September—May                  $12.90
   Energy charge (per kWh)                $0.035
Small commercial customers
   Customer charge
      Single-phase                     $20.50 per month
      Three-phase                      $27 per month
   Energy charge (per kWh)
      All kWh (June—August)          $0.097
      All kWh (September—May)        $0.083
Residential Customers
   Customer charge                        $14.50 per month
   Energy charge (per kWh)
      All kWh (June—August)          $0.095
      All kWh (September—May) 0 to 1,$0.082h
      All kWh (September—May) over 1,$0.074h
 
      (2)   Usage exceeding 5,000 kilowatt hours. Customers whose usage exceeds
5,000 kilowatt hours in three or more months during a 12-month period will be
placed in the “large customer” class for a minimum of one year.
      (3)   Consumers outside corporate limits. A distribution surcharge of
$0.027 per kilowatt hour will be added for all consumers outside the corporate
limits of the city.
      (4)   First and last months prorated. The customer charge for every user
shall be prorated to the owner or occupant for the residential dwelling unit
based upon the occupied number of days during the first and last months of
occupancy.
   (B)   Security light rate.
 
Flat charge $13 per month per light
 
(Prior Code, § H-5-5) (Ord. 809, passed - -; Ord. 812, passed - -; Ord. 855,
passed - -; Ord. 872, passed - -; Ord. 876, passed - -; Ord. 883, passed - -;
Ord. 899, passed - -; Ord. 917, passed - -; Ord. 960, passed - -; Ord. 980,
passed - -; Ord. 1004, passed - -; Ord. 1017, passed - -; Ord. 1026, passed -
-; Ord. 1038, passed - -; Ord. 1047, passed - -; Ord. 1066, passed 12-19-2022)
WATER
§ 51.045 WATER SERVICES RATES, RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Rates by type of user. The owner or occupant of each residential or
nonresidential facility connected to the municipal water services shall pay for
the use of such service a monthly fee based upon the following.
   Ty   F   Amount of Water
   Type        Fee          Amount of Water
Outside City Limits
   Base rate$41.25          Base; no gallons included
   Second ti$2.50 per 1,000 0 to 40,000 gallons
   Third tie$3.00 per 1,000 Above 40,000 gallons
Within City Limits
   Base rate$27.50          Base; no gallons included
   Second ti$2.50 per 1,000 0 to 40,000 gallons
   Third tie$3 per 1,000    Above 40,000 gallons
 
   (B)   First and last months prorated. The base rate fee for every user shall
be prorated to the owner or occupant for the residential or nonresidential
dwelling unit based upon the occupied number of days during the first and last
months of occupancy.
(Prior Code, § H-5-6) (Ord. 809, passed - -; Ord. 850, passed - -; Ord. 883,
passed - -; Ord. 917, passed - -; Ord. 921, passed - -; Ord. 923, passed - -;
Ord. 960, passed - -; Ord. 988, passed - -; Ord. 1004, passed - -; Ord. 1017,
passed - -; Ord. 1026, passed - -; Ord. 1038, passed - -; Ord. 1047, passed -
-; Ord. 1066, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 51.046 PERMIT OR LICENSE FOR SERVICE BEYOND CITY BOUNDARIES.
   The owner of each residential or nonresidential water pipeline connected to
the municipal water services for services beyond the city boundaries shall be
required to apply for a permit or license with the city allowing for the
purchasing of such municipal water services. The contract must stipulate rates,
gallonage, billing procedure and other provisions for providing water services
as the City Council may determine appropriate.
(Prior Code, § H-5-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 51.047 RATES IN CASE OF WATER METER FAILURE.
   In cases where meters fail to register the amount of water passing through
them by being stopped up, or from any cause whatsoever, the quantity used shall
be determined and the charge made based upon the average amount used during the
two or more preceding periods of similar length. If the average amount cannot
be determined, then the flat rates as given in this subchapter will be charged
to the consumer. In cases of breakage or stoppage or any other irregularity in
the meter installed by the city, the owner or consumer is to immediately notify
the City Finance Office, and any necessary repairs will be made by the City
Water Department.
(Prior Code, § H-5-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
SEWER
§ 51.060 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to generate sufficient revenue to
pay all costs for the operation and maintenance and construction of the
complete wastewater system.
   (B)   The costs shall be distributed equitably to all users of the
wastewater system.
(Prior Code, § H-5-10.1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-48-2 and 9-48-27
§ 51.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C expressed in milligrams per liter.
   NONRESIDENTIAL USER. All users that are not residential users that introduce
only domestic or primarily segregated domestic wastes into a building sewer.
   PRIMARILY SEGREGATED DOMESTIC WASTES. The sewage that is introduced into a
building sewer and which contains not more than 50% industrial waste prior to
any intentional dilution.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. All users that introduce only sanitary sewage resulting
from household operations into a building sewer.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The water-carried wastes from residences, hotels,
restaurants or eating houses, or from business establishments or premises
engaged solely in the sale, storage or repair of goods, wares or merchandise,
and which contains garbage and human wastes.
   SEWER USE CHARGE. A monthly charge to all users of the wastewater facilities
that is based on sewage volume, strength and/or flow.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. Total suspended matter that either floats on
the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids and
that is removable by laboratory filtering, as prescribed in Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, and referred to as NONFILTERABLE
RESIDUE.
(Prior Code, § H-5-10.2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-48-2
§ 51.062 DETERMINING TOTAL ANNUAL COST OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The city, its Finance Officer or his or her designee shall determine the
total annual cost of operation and maintenance of the wastewater system in the
city. The total annual cost of operation and maintenance shall include, but not
be limited to, labor, repairs, equipment, replacement, maintenance, necessary
modifications, power, sampling, laboratory tests, construction for replacement
or expansion of existing facilities and a reasonable contingency fund.
(Prior Code, § H-5-10.3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-48-2 and SDCL Ch. 9-48
§ 51.063 RATE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Consumer or owner to pay. All wastewater discharge to the wastewater
system operated by the city shall be paid for by the consumer or owner of the
premises.
   (B)   Residential users. Residential users shall all be considered one class
of user, and the service charge will be based on the average residential water
use in accordance with §
51.064(B).
   (C)   Nonresidential users.
      (1)   Nonresidential users who use no more than a typical residence will
have the service charge based upon 7,000 gallons per month.
      (2)   Nonresidential users who use more than a typical residence will
have the same service charge as a residential user for the first 7,000 gallons
per month, plus a charge per 1,000 gallons for all flows over 7,000 gallons per
month.
      (3)   Nonresidential users shall pay a surcharge for above-normal BOD and
TSS loadings. The surcharge is to cover the operation and maintenance costs for
treating above-normal BOD and TSS loadings. Normal BOD and TSS loadings are
considered to be equal to the average domestic sewage strength for the city, or
200 parts per million for TSS.
(Prior Code, § H-5-10.4) (Ord. 917, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-48-2 and 9-48-27 and SDCL Ch. 9-48
§ 51.064 MINIMUM RATES AND MONTHLY CHARGE.
   (A)   Each residential dwelling unit, as defined in the currently adopted
Building Code as referenced in §
150.01(B), connected either directly or indirectly to the wastewater system
shall pay a minimum monthly fee of $27.50. Those residential customers who are
outside the city limits shall pay a minimum monthly fee of $41.25.
   (B)   Each residential dwelling unit as identified in division (A) above, in
addition to the minimum monthly fee, shall pay $2.50 per 1,000 gallons of
water. This additional fee shall be based on the average gallons of water used
in such dwelling during the months of November, December, January, February and
March of each calendar year. If no gallons of water are used during January,
February or March for a residential dwelling unit, a fee based on 3,000 gallons
of water will be used in lieu of a usage for any given month.
   (C)   Each nonresidential user not otherwise classified as a residential
dwelling unit that is connected either directly or indirectly to the wastewater
system shall pay a minimum monthly fee of $27.50. Those nonresidential
customers who are outside the city limits shall pay a minimum monthly fee of
$41.25.
   (D)   Each user not identified as a residential user shall pay, in addition
to the minimum monthly fee, $2.50 per 1,000 gallons of water used or any
portion thereof.
   (E)   The minimum monthly fee for every user shall be prorated to the owner
or occupant for the residential dwelling unit or nonresidential user based upon
the occupied number of days during the first and last months of occupancy.
   (F)   In addition to the other sewer charges, the city establishes a
surcharge of $0.85, payable by each customer of its system who receives or
benefits from the services of the project financed by the CW#6 SRF loan with
the borrower bond. Such funds collected will be captured and committed as a
“Wastewater Surcharge-CW#6 SRF.” Said commitment is subject to adjustment from
time to time by ordinance as necessary to repay a $216,000 Clean Water State
Revolving Loan Fund (SRF) over a period of not more than 30 years at an
interest rate of 3.25%, in accordance with the loan agreement to be entered
into by the city and the state’s Department of Environment and Natural
Resources, the proceeds of which loan are to be used for the wastewater
treatment improvements project. Such surcharge shall be segregated from all
other funds of the city, shall be and are hereby pledged to secure such loan
and shall be used for no purposes other than the repayment thereof.
   (G)   In addition to other sewer charges, the city establishes a surcharge
of $10.50, payable by each residential customer, of $17.50, payable by each
small commercial customer, and of $85, payable by each large commercial
customer, of its system who receives or benefits from the services of the
project financed by the CW#7 SRF loan with the borrower bond. Such funds
collected will be captured and committed as a “Wastewater Surcharge-CW#7 SRF.”
The collection of the surcharge will start on March 1, 2021, with bill payable
in April. The surcharge shall remain in effect until such time as the borrower
bond is paid in full; it shall be collected at the same time as other charges
of the system and establish a surcharge account to segregate the income from
the other system income for bookkeeping purposes, to be pledged to the state
Conservancy District. The surcharge shall be reviewed from year to year and
modified in order to provide the required 110% debt coverage. The said
commitment shall repay a $3,701,000 Clean Water State Revolving Loan Fund (SRF)
over a period of not more than 30 years at an interest rate of 2.125%, in
accordance with the loan agreement to be entered into by the city and the
state’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources, the proceeds of which
loan are to be used for the wastewater treatment improvements project.
(Prior Code, § H-5-10.5) (Ord. 809, passed - -; Ord. 834, passed - -; Ord. 856,
passed - -; Ord. 899, passed - -; Ord. 917, passed - -; Ord. 923, passed - -;
Ord. 950, passed - -; Ord. 954, passed - -; Ord. 960, passed - -; Ord. 972,
passed - -; Ord. 1004, passed - -; Ord. 1017, passed - -; Ord. 1026, passed -
-; Ord. 1038, passed - -; Ord. 1047, passed - -; Ord. 1066, passed 12-19-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-23, 9-48-2 and 9-48-27 and SDCL Ch. 9-
48
§ 51.065 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL USERS.
   Any nonresidential user receiving metered water for uses that result in
portions of the water not being discharged to the wastewater system may have
his or her sewer use charge adjusted by showing, at the owner’s expense, what
percentage of the metered water is not being discharged to the system.
(Prior Code, § H-5-10.6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-48-2 and 9-48-27
§ 51.066 NOTIFICATION OF USER RATES.
   Each user will be notified, at least annually, and in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges that are
attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(Prior Code, § H-5-10.11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-48-27
§ 51.067 SPECIAL RATES.
   Whenever a consumer resides outside the limits of the city and there are
other special circumstances which increase or otherwise affect the cost of
supplying utilities to a given consumer, the city may, by and through the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee, negotiate with the prospective
consumer as to rates, quantities and other characteristics beyond the
connection fee. Where these extraordinary circumstances occur, the city shall
not be bound to furnish the utility service at the rates previously established
herein or to provide the utility service at all.
(Prior Code, § H-5-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-48-32
§ 51.068 REVIEW OF EACH USER’S WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The city shall review the total annual cost of operation and maintenance, as
well as each user’s wastewater service charge, on an annual basis to assure
equity of the service charge system established herein. If a significant user,
such as an industry, has completed in-plant modifications which would change
that user’s wastewater contribution, the user can present at a regularly
scheduled meeting of the governing body such factual information, and the city
shall then determine if the user’s wastewater service charge is to be changed.
The city shall notify the user of its findings as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § H-5-10.10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-48-27
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRIC SERVICE
Section
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Definition
   
52.03   Nonstandard electrical power
   
52.04   Connection prerequisites
   
52.05   Nonmunicipal power supply
   
52.06   Power disconnection conditions
   
52.07   Tampering with power supply
   
52.08   Retail customer defined
   
52.09   Aggregation of retail customer demand response
   
52.10   Ancillary services provided by demand response resources
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish the rules and regulations
regarding the city’s authority to provide its citizens with electrical energy,
to establish the prerequisites for connection, limit non-useful power supplies,
describe the conditions requiring disconnection and establish rules and
regulations for tampering with a municipal power supply.
(Prior Code, § H-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-39-1
§ 52.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL ENERGY. Single-phase, 220 volt, 60 hertz alternating current. The
city cannot and does not warrant quality or quantity of such electrical energy,
but will make every reasonable effort to ensure delivery of continuous, usable
electrical energy.
(Prior Code, § H-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-39-1
§ 52.03 NONSTANDARD ELECTRICAL POWER.
   (A)   Any person requiring electrical power other than that described in §
52.02 of this chapter must negotiate with the Director of Public Works or his
or her designee on the terms governing such power supply. Said officer may
capitalize costs of special lines and facilities required by the person
applying therefor, may require payment of all costs attributable to such
service requirements prior to supplying the power or may decline on behalf of
the city to supply nonstandard electrical power.
   (B)   If it is determined that nonstandard electrical power requirements
will not be satisfied by the city, the decision may be appealed within 30 days
to the Board of Appeals. If the denial of the Director of Public Works or his
or her designee is upheld, the requesting party is free to secure such services
from another electrical supplier according to state law.
(Prior Code, § H-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-39-1
§ 52.04 CONNECTION PREREQUISITES.
   Electrical energy will be supplied to any dwelling or business place located
within the city whenever the following criteria are met.
   (A)   The owner or occupant requests electrical connection as provided in §§
50.20 through
50.30 of this code, signs all agreements required by the city, makes all
required utility and meter deposits and complies with the provisions of §§
50.25 through
50.28 of this code.
   (B)   The structure that is to be connected to city lines complies with
applicable safety codes or, if not subject to said codes, apparently will not
present significant hazard to human life when energized.
   (C)   The party requesting services owes no electrical bills to the city
which are more than 30 days in arrears.
(Prior Code, § H-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-39-1 and 9-39-23
§ 52.05 NONMUNICIPAL POWER SUPPLY.
   (A)   No electric supplier other than the City Electrical Department may
supply electrical energy within the corporate limits of the city, except:
      (1)   Other electric utilities or rural electric associations which have
served an area continuously and exclusively prior to annexation by the city,
which the city has not offered in good faith to purchase as provided by state
law; or
      (2)   Other electric utilities or rural electric associations supplying
nonstandard electrical power as provided in §
52.03 of this chapter.
   (B)   No electric supplier, other than the City Electrical Department, may
expand or supply service to new customers within the city other than as
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § H-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-39-1 and 49-34A-42
§ 52.06 POWER DISCONNECTION CONDITIONS.
   The City Electrical Department, employees thereof acting in their official
capacity or contractors therefor in the process of performing under contract
may disconnect power under the following conditions:
   (A)   To correct or terminate a hazardous condition;
   (B)   For purposes of construction, repair or maintenance of city facilities
to ensure dependable power supply or restore services to areas where power has
been interrupted due to facility failure; but if electrical energy will be
disconnected for periods of time in excess of one hour, the Electrical
Department shall cause notice by public service announcements and newspaper
announcements, to the extent reasonable and practical under the circumstances,
to minimize inconvenience to affected utility consumers;
   (C)   In the event of inadequate power supply to the city, a system of
rolling black-outs or brown-outs may be employed, whereby service to various
areas of the city is interrupted in succession to ensure availability of power
to other areas. The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall
divide the city into service areas for the purposes of this process and shall
maintain a list to ensure that each area is treated equally with respect to
non-service or reduced service; and
   (D)   Pursuant to §§
50.45 through
50.57 of this code, relating to nonpayment or late payment of utility bills.
(Prior Code, § H-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-39-1 and 9-39-23
§ 52.07 TAMPERING WITH POWER SUPPLY.
   (A)   No person may touch, contact, control, cause the breaking or grounding
of or cause power loss through induction in any electrical line or conductor,
appliance or transformer or service equipment owned or operated by the city. No
person may dismantle, break the seal on, bypass or influence magnetically, or
by other means, the reading on any electric meter which has been installed to
measure amounts of electrical energy or power supplied by the city.
   (B)   Duly licensed electricians, when performing an emergency or after-
hours service call for a customer, employees of the city and contractors
performing under a contract with the city are exempt from the operation of this
section.
   (C)   Violation of this section, unless specifically excepted, subjects the
violator to the standard penalty for violation of ordinances as provided for in
§
10.99 of this code. In addition, the city or a private party sustaining damages
as a consequence of acts herein prohibited may recover the value of electrical
energy lost, replacement of damaged facilities and damages sustained as a
consequence of acts hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § H-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-39-1, 22-34-28, 49-34-15 and 49-
34-19
§ 52.08 RETAIL CUSTOMER DEFINED.
   For purposes of §§
52.09 and
52.10 of this chapter, RETAIL CUSTOMERS are defined as those customers located
inside the corporate limits as well as those customers outside the city limits
but within the West Central Electric Cooperative’s, or its successor’s,
territorial service area.
(Prior Code, § H-1-9) (Ord. 914, passed - -)
§ 52.09 AGGREGATION OF RETAIL CUSTOMER DEMAND RESPONSE.
   (A)   The municipal Electric Department or its authorized designee is the
sole entity permitted to bid demand response on behalf of retail customers
served by the municipal Electric Department directly into any Commission-
approved independent system operator’s or regional transmission organization’s
organized electric markets.
   (B)   Retail customers served by the municipal Electric Department wishing
to bid their demand response into a Commission-approved independent system
operator’s or regional transmission organization’s organized electric markets
may do so by participating in the program established by the municipal Electric
Department or its authorized designee. Retail customers are not permitted to
participate in the demand response program of any other entity without the
express prior authorization of the municipal Electric Department.
(Prior Code, § H-1-8) (Ord. 914, passed - -)
§ 52.10 ANCILLARY SERVICES PROVIDED BY DEMAND RESPONSE RESOURCES.
   (A)   The municipal Electric Department or its authorized designee is the
sole entity permitted to bid demand response on behalf of retail customers
served by the municipal Electric Department directly into any Commission-
approved independent system operator’s or regional transmission organization’s
organized markets for energy imbalance, spinning reserves, supplemental
reserves, reactive power and voltage control or regulation and frequency
response ancillary services (or its functional equivalent in the Commission-
approved independent system operator’s or regional transmission organization’s
tariff).
   (B)   Retail customers served by the municipal Electric Department wishing
to bid their demand response into a Commission-approved independent system
operator’s or regional transmission organization’s organized markets for energy
imbalance, spinning reserves, supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage
control or regulation and frequency response ancillary services (or its
functional equivalent in the Commission-approved independent system operator’s
or regional transmission organization’s tariff) may do so by participating in
the program established by the municipal Electric Department or its authorized
designee. Retail customers are not permitted to participate in the demand
response program of any other entity without the express prior authorization of
the municipal Electric Department.
(Prior Code, § H-1-9) (Ord. 914, passed - -)
CHAPTER 53: WATER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Non-domestic water use
   
53.03   Prerequisites for water supply within city
   
53.04   Prerequisites for water supply outside city boundaries
   
53.05   Procedure for tapping main
   
53.06   Common use water service lines prohibited
   
53.07   Tampering with water supply
   
53.08   Placement of check valves on boilers and hot water apparatus
   
53.09   Right to enter; procedure when violation found
Water Meters
   
53.20   Metering all water from city mains; city to furnish, service meters
   
53.21   Single meter for each service pipe; auxiliary meters
   
53.22   Placement of meters in buildings
   
53.23   Placement of outside meters in meter pits
   
53.24   Consumer responsibility for meter safety and accessibility; costs;
violations
   
53.25   Meter testing at consumer’s request; deposit
   
53.26   Damaging or interfering with meters
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOMESTIC WATER. Potable water provided for use in drinking, sanitation and
cleansing and the watering of vegetation, all on a scale associated with a
residence or dwelling.
   NON-DOMESTIC WATER. The water used for motive force, cooling, large-scale
irrigation or other consumptive uses from which economic gain is expected to be
realized, or rates or quantities in excess of 7,500 gallons per day.
(Prior Code, § H-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 53.02 NON-DOMESTIC WATER USE.
   Any person requiring a water supply for purposes other than domestic use
must make application to the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
The Director of Public Works or his or her designee may capitalize costs of
special facilities or increased capacities to be paid on a per unit basis, may
require immediate payment of costs attributable to such requirements or may
decline to supply water for non-domestic use.
(Prior Code, § H-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-47-1
§ 53.03 PREREQUISITES FOR WATER SUPPLY WITHIN CITY.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
53.02 of this chapter, and notwithstanding the subdivision requirements set
forth in
Ch. 158 of this code, the owners of all houses, buildings or properties used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within
the city requesting municipal water service shall connect such service to the
municipal water system in accordance with the provisions set forth in this
chapter.
   (B)   Any proposed installation of water services beyond an existing public
water main shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Plans and specifications for the water main and connecting service
lines shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee,
if in conformance with this chapter, and placed on file. Such plans and
specifications shall conform with all federal, state, county and municipal laws
and regulations. The water main and service lines shall be installed in such a
manner that freezing or uncontrolled release of water cannot occur under
foreseeable circumstances and no foreign material can be siphoned into the
municipal water system.
   (D)   The person requesting the installation of the water main (hereinafter
referred to as “requesting party”) shall be responsible for all labor and
material costs associated with the installation of the water main, including,
but not limited to, the water main pipe, sleeves, tees, valves, valve boxes,
saddles, corporation stops, hydrants and other pertinent apparatuses necessary
to extend or connect to the existing municipal water system. The requesting
party shall be responsible for the materials and labor associated with the
installation and maintenance of all water service lines.
   (E)   Prior to commencement of the water main installation, any necessary
easements and an agreement for installation shall be executed between the city
and the requesting party. The agreement shall incorporate the approved plans
and specifications, allow for other parties to tap into or extend the water
main, provide for the collection of fees, establish the amount of the fee to be
charged by the requesting party on a per-linear-foot or per-square-foot basis
and provide for the transfer of ownership of the main as required by §
53.03(I).
   (F)   The requesting party may collect a fee for all costs from all parties,
except the city, who wish to tap the water main by assessing the lot or parcel
fronting or abutting the water main at a rate not to exceed 80% of the original
cost on a per-linear-foot or per-square-foot basis. The requesting party shall
not collect any fee from parties not subject to the fee for costs who only wish
to extend the water main.
   (G)   Except for the city and the requesting party, all other parties
connecting to the water main for the purpose of extending the water main or for
tapping the water main for a service line shall pay to the city any current
municipal tapping fee in addition to the fee for materials required by §
53.03(F), if any.
   (H)   All installation and tapping fees payable to the city or requesting
party, must be paid in full at the time of application pursuant to §
53.05 of this chapter.
   (I)   On the fifth anniversary of the water line contract, or earlier if the
owner has recouped his or her costs or if the owner has selected a lesser
period of time, whichever is sooner, for water improvements less than 2,000
lineal feet or less than $50,000 in total construction costs, the owner shall
deliver a properly executed bill of sale to the city for the sum of $1.
   (J)   On the tenth anniversary of the water line contract, or earlier if the
owner has recouped his or her costs or if the owner has selected a lesser
period of time, whichever is sooner, for water improvements greater than 2,000
lineal feet or greater than $50,000 in total construction costs, the owner
shall deliver a properly executed bill of sale to the city for the sum of $1.
(Prior Code, § H-2-3) (Ord. 814, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 53.04 PREREQUISITES FOR WATER SUPPLY OUTSIDE CITY BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The city may furnish water service, domestic or non-domestic, to
persons outside the city boundaries (hereinafter referred as “contracting
party”).
   (B)   All labor and material costs for the installation of any such service
shall be borne by the contracting party.
   (C)   All contracting parties seeking to tap the municipal water main,
either at or near the city boundaries or a water main installed under contract
under the provisions of this chapter, shall pay to the city the current
municipal tapping fee in addition to the costs imposed in §
53.04(B).
   (D)   The metering of the water for the purpose of charging for such service
shall be at a location and of a type approved by the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee. All meters outside the city limits shall be maintained
by the city. All costs associated with the purchase and any subsequent repairs
shall be paid by the contracting party. All meters shall be placed in a pit or
other facility at the expense of the contracting party. The construction of
such pit or other facility shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee prior to its installation.
   (E)   Multiple meters can be allowed by contract with the city, provided the
city is granted free and convenient access to any property where such meters
are located; and provided further that the contracting party agrees to hold
harmless and indemnify the city from any loss or liability arising from the
provision of such water service and access to property, including reasonable
attorney fees.
   (F)   All meters outside the city boundaries shall be accessible to the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee for the purpose of reading or
maintaining such meters.
   (G)   All curb stops for water lines located outside the city boundaries
shall be installed on the upstream side of the meter pit. All backflow
preventers shall be installed on the downstream side of the meter.
   (H)   Prior to the connection of any water line outside municipal boundaries
to the city water system, the plans and specifications for the water main and
connecting service lines shall be designed by a registered engineer, submitted
to the Director of Public Works or his or her designee for approval of
conformance with this chapter and placed on file. Any service line shall be
installed in such a manner that freezing or uncontrolled release of water
cannot occur under foreseeable circumstances and no foreign material can be
siphoned into the municipal water system. Maintenance of any such water service
line shall be the responsibility of the contracting party from the point of
connection to the city water system regardless of the location of the meter.
   (I)   Any uncontrolled release in a line outside the limits shall be
repaired within 48 hours of notice. If not repaired, the service will be
terminated without further notice.
(Prior Code, § H-2-3) (Ord. 814, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 53.05 PROCEDURE FOR TAPPING MAIN.
   (A)   A person wishing to obtain a new water supply from a city water main
must apply to the Director of Public Works or his or her designee for a permit
to tap a city main and must pay to the Finance Officer or his or her designee
the required deposit and the cost of the labor and materials required for the
tap to the extent that the cost exceeds the deposit.
   (B)   The tap shall be made by the city. The applicant is responsible for
furnishing and installing all water supply facilities other than the tap
itself. The applicant is further responsible for all excavation necessary,
including the cutting, patching or repairing of any surfaced street.
   (C)   No tap or line may be covered until inspected by the City
Superintendent or his or her designee. The pipe, curb stop and curb box
utilized must be a type approved by the City Superintendent or his or her
designee, and the stop must be placed in a standard and accessible location. If
an installation is covered before approval, the person covering shall be liable
to the city for the cost of re-excavation.
(Prior Code, § H-2-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 53.06 COMMON USE WATER SERVICE LINES PROHIBITED.
   All water service lines installed after the effective date of this chapter
shall be separate from any other existing water service line and shall be
tapped directly into a municipal water main. Exceptions may be allowed only by
written permission of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee upon
written finding that no adverse effect upon human health or operation of the
water system will be experienced and that it is economically unfeasible to
create a separate water system. If written permission is granted, it shall be
so indicated on the permit application filed in accordance with §
53.05 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § H-2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-47-1
§ 53.07 TAMPERING WITH WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to uncover, tap or alter in any way any
water supply main operated by the city or to disrupt, modify or control the
flow of water without authorization from the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee. It is unlawful for any person to inject or permit to be siphoned
into such main any material.
   (B)   Violation of this section, unless specifically exempted, subjects the
violator to the standard penalty for violation of ordinances as provided for in
§
10.99 of this code.
   (C)   Firefighters in the process of fighting a fire or practicing
firefighting skills are exempt from this section.
(Prior Code, § H-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1, 9-47-1, 22-34-28 and 49-34-
15
§ 53.08 PLACEMENT OF CHECK VALVES ON BOILERS AND HOT WATER APPARATUS.
   Where a meter has been placed on a water pipe connection to a boiler or
other hot water apparatus, a check valve must be placed and maintained between
such meter and the boiler or hot water apparatus when so ordered by the city,
which shall protect such meter from back pressure of steam or hot water. In
case the meter shall be damaged by hot water or steam, the owner or occupant of
the premises shall pay for all such damages.
(Prior Code, § H-2-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 53.09 RIGHT TO ENTER; PROCEDURE WHEN VIOLATION FOUND.
   The Mayor, City Council members, chief law enforcement officer, City
Engineer, Director of Public Works or his or her designee and employees of the
City Water Department shall be permitted (at reasonable hours) to enter the
premises or buildings of consumers to examine the water pipes and fixtures and
the manner in which water is used. In any case of fraudulent representation on
the part of the owner or occupant, or willful or unreasonable use of water,
such owner or occupant shall be notified in writing, and the city may cause the
water service to be discontinued and assess reasonable damages.
(Prior Code, § H-2-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-47-1
WATER METERS
§ 53.20 METERING ALL WATER FROM CITY MAINS; CITY TO FURNISH, SERVICE METERS.
   All consumers of water from the city water main shall receive city water
through a meter. The City Water Department shall provide all meters and outside
meter devices and install and keep the same in repair free of charge to the
consumer as provided in this chapter. The meter and outside meter devices will
remain the property of the city. The property owner shall furnish suitable
plumbing for the water meters according to the Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § H-2-7)
Cross-reference:
   Plumbing Code, see §
150.03
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 53.21 SINGLE METER FOR EACH SERVICE PIPE; AUXILIARY METERS.
   The supply of water through each separate service pipe must be recorded by
one meter only. All additional or auxiliary meters shall be furnished by the
owner or occupant at his or her own expense, and he or she must assume all
responsibility of maintaining and reading the same.
(Prior Code, § H-2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 53.22 PLACEMENT OF METERS IN BUILDINGS.
   All meters shall be located in the cellar, basement or crawl space of the
building on the premises to be supplied with water and provided with a valve
between the main and the meter. The Director of Public Works or his or her
designee may permit the meter in other places on the property when, in his or
her opinion, such meter shall be safe from frost or other destructive
conditions.
(Prior Code, § H-2-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 53.23 PLACEMENT OF OUTSIDE METERS IN METER PITS.
   All water meters not located in cellars, basements or crawl spaces must be
placed in meter pits. The construction of such a pit shall be approved by the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee and shall not be below the
frost line, be three feet long and two and one-half feet wide, inside
measurement, and must be provided with two close-fitting covers so arranged as
to provide a dead air space between each cover, and with steps to enable one to
descend into the pit. The city may supply the necessary materials for the meter
pit, provided all costs and sales tax associated with the purchase of the meter
pit is paid by the owner.
(Prior Code, § H-2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 53.24 CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY FOR METER SAFETY AND ACCESSIBILITY; COSTS;
VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A suitable place, safe from frost or other damage and accessible for
reading and examination, must be provided for said meter at the expense of the
owner or occupant. In all cases where the meter is injured by freezing, or
where it is otherwise damaged by the act or neglect of the owner or occupant of
the premises, or of his or her agent, the cost of repair and replacing of same
shall be paid by the owner or occupant.
   (B)   In case of neglect or refusal to pay the same on demand, and after
reasonable notice to the owner or occupant, the water supply may be turned off
or meter removed, or both, and shall not again be turned on until such costs
are paid and conditions corrected. Such notice will set out the grounds on
which the disconnection is based, state the utility’s intention to disconnect,
identify the corrective action which the customer must take to avoid
disconnection and advise the customer of the right and procedure to appeal.
   (C)   The owner or occupant of all premises where a water meter is located
shall see that the meter is kept free from obstruction on or around the same
and conveniently accessible during all reasonable hours of the day for the
purposes of reading, inspection or the repairing of such meter.
(Prior Code, § H-2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-47-1
§ 53.25 METER TESTING AT CONSUMER’S REQUEST; DEPOSIT.
   Any owner or occupant of premises shall have the right, upon payment of a
fee to the city as prescribed in
Ch. 51 of this code, to have his or her water meter tested. The owner or
occupant may be present at such test if he or she so desires. If the meter is
found to be defective, the fee shall be returned.
(Prior Code, § H-2-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 53.26 DAMAGING OR INTERFERING WITH METERS.
   Any person who shall break or deface the seal of any water meter or outside
meter device, or who shall obstruct or injure the action of any water meter or
outside meter device, or who shall make any connections, by means of a pipe or
otherwise, with any main or pipe used for the delivery of water to the consumer
in such manner so as to take water from said main or pipe without its passing
through a water meter, or who shall use any water so obtained, or who shall,
with intent to defraud, make any connection or reconnection with such main or
pipe, or turn on or off or in any manner interfere with any valve, stop cock or
other appliance connected therewith, shall, upon conviction therefor, be
penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § H-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1, 9-47-1 and 22-34-1
CHAPTER 54: SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Public sewer use required
   
54.04   Sewer main installation, connection
   
54.05   Private wastewater disposal
   
54.06   Permit required to uncover, open, use, alter or disturb public sewer
   
54.07   Classes of building sewer permits
   
54.08   Separate, independent sewer for each building
   
54.09   Old building sewer line use
   
54.10   Construction standards for installation
   
54.11   Backflow preventers
   
54.12   Connections to city sewer mains outside city limits
   
54.13   Connection permit required
   
54.14   Inspection
   
54.15   Excavation and barricade requirements
Discharge Restrictions and Requirements
   
54.30   Discharge of unpolluted waters, stormwater runoff
   
54.31   Permit to discharge water from basement sump pumps to sanitary sewers
   
54.32   Items not allowed to be discharged
   
54.33   Wastes restricted by concentration or quantity limits
   
54.34   Alternatives for control; Director to reject or require
   
54.35   Pretreatment, flow equalization at owner’s expense
   
54.36   Interceptors
   
54.37   Special arrangements allowed
Observation, Testing and Enforcement
   
54.50   Meters required for observation, sampling and measurement
   
54.51   Information required for determining compliance
   
54.52   Sampling methods
   
54.53   Violations
   
54.54   Powers and authority of Inspectors
   
54.55   Hearing Board
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish rules and regulations regarding
the proper use of the municipal sewer system, connection requirements thereto
and penalty provisions for noncompliance.
(Prior Code, § H-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-48-2
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING. Any structure utilized for human occupancy for more than ten days
within a 30-day period unless otherwise authorized by ordinance.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet or one and one-half meters outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Fat, oil or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   HEARING BOARD. The board appointed according to the provisions of §
54.55 of this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. Is permissive. (See also SHALL.)   
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.   
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch or one and twenty-seven-
hundredths (1.27) centimeters in any dimension.   
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.   
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER MAIN. A sewer pipe designed to carry the discharge of more than one
sewer.
   SHALL. Is mandatory. (See also MAY.)   
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
systems and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER, a drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of wastewater facilities, and/or of
wastewater treatment works, and/or of water pollution control, of the city, or
his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. Total suspended matter that either floats on
the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids and
that is removable by laboratory filtering, as prescribed in Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, and referred to as NONFILTERABLE
RESIDUE.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground, storm and surface water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § H-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-48-2
§ 54.03 PUBLIC SEWER USE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater within 200 feet of an existing municipal system.
   (C)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes in which plumbing
facilities are installed, situated within the city, fronting or abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby
required, at such owner’s expense, to install suitable toilet facilities
therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer,
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of
official notice to do so.
(Prior Code, § H-3-3) (Ord. 814, passed - -) Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-48-53
§ 54.04 SEWER MAIN INSTALLATION, CONNECTION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the subdivision requirements set forth in
Ch. 158 of this code, any proposed installation of a sewer main shall be
accomplished in accordance with provisions of this chapter at the expense of
the private party.
   (B)   The person requesting the installation of a sewer main (hereinafter
“private party”) shall be responsible for all material costs associated with
the installation of the sewer main, including, but not limited to, sewer main
pipe, saddles, number of manholes, required lift stations, clean outs and “Y”
connections and other pertinent apparatuses necessary to extend or connect to
the existing municipal sewer system. The materials shall be purchased by the
city, and the cost shall be reimbursed to the city by the private party prior
to installation. The city shall be responsible for installing and maintaining
the sewer main. The private party shall be responsible for the materials and
labor associated with the installation and maintenance of all sewer service
lines.
   (C)   Prior to commencement of the sewer main or lift station installation,
a license for the use of public rights-of-way for construction purposes must be
secured from the city, together with a contract for such installation. The
contract shall incorporate the plans and specifications approved by the state’s
Department of Environment and Natural Resources, including, but not limited to,
the location of the proposed sewer main, size of sewer main, number of
manholes, required lift stations, clean outs and “Y” connections, allow for
other parties to tap into or extend the sewer main, provide for the collection
of an installation fee, establish the amount of the installation fee to be
charged by the private party to potential users of such installation on a per-
linear-foot or per-square-foot basis and provide for the transfer of ownership
of the main to the city as required by this section.
   (D)   The private party may collect an installation fee from all potential
users, except the city, seeking to tap the sewer main by assessing the lot or
parcel fronting or abutting the sewer main at a rate not to exceed 80% of the
original installation cost on a per-linear-foot or per-square-foot basis.
   (E)   Except for the city and the private party, all potential users
connecting to the sewer main or lift station for the purpose of extending the
sewer main or for tapping the sewer main for a service line shall pay to the
city any current municipal tapping fee in addition to the installation fee
required by this section.
   (F)   Except for the city and the private party, all potential users
connecting to the manhole or lift stations for the purpose of extending the
sewer main and who are not subject to the installation fee shall pay the
private party an amount equal to the city’s current tapping fee in addition to
the tapping fee to the city.
   (G)   All installation fees and tapping fees payable to the private party or
to the city must be paid in full prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   (H)   On the fifth anniversary of the sewer main contract, or earlier if the
private party has already recouped his or her costs or if the owner has
selected a lesser period of time, whichever is sooner, for sanitary sewer
improvements less than 2,000 lineal feet or less than $50,000 in total
construction cost, the private party shall deliver a bill of sale transferring
ownership of the sewer main, manholes and lift station to the city for the sum
of $1.
   (I)   On the tenth anniversary of the sewer main contract, or earlier if the
private party has already recouped his or her costs or if the owner has
selected a lesser period of time, whichever is sooner, for sanitary sewer
improvements greater than 2,000 lineal feet or greater than $50,000 in total
construction cost, the private party shall deliver a bill of sale transferring
ownership of the sewer main, manholes and lift station to the city for the sum
of $1.
(Prior Code, § H-3-3) (Ord. 814, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-48-2
§ 54.05 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
54.03 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the City
Superintendent or his or her designee. The application of such a permit shall
be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement
with any plans, specifications and other information as is deemed necessary by
the City Superintendent or his or her designee. A permit and inspection fee as
provided and established by resolution shall be paid to the city at the time
the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the City
Superintendent or his or her designee. The City Superintendent or his or her
designee shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and,
in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the City Superintendent
or his or her designee when the work is ready for final inspections and before
any underground portions are covered.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply will all recommendations of the state’s Department
of Public Health. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to
any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system as provided in this section, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days in compliance with
this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater
disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable
material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the state’s Department
of Health.
(Prior Code, § H-3-4) Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-48-2 and SDCL Ch. 9-48
§ 54.06 PERMIT REQUIRED TO UNCOVER, OPEN, USE, ALTER OR DISTURB PUBLIC SEWER.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into or use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee.
(Prior Code, § H-3-5) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07 CLASSES OF BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: residential and
nonresidential. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee. A connection fee shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
(Prior Code, § H-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-48-2
§ 54.08 SEPARATE, INDEPENDENT SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. Exceptions may be allowed only by written permission of the Director
of Public Works or his or her designee upon written finding that no adverse
effect upon human health or operation of the sewer system will be experienced
and that it is economically unfeasible to create a separate sewer system. If
written permission is granted, it shall be so indicated on the permit
application filed in accordance with §
54.07 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § H-3-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-48-2
§ 54.09 OLD BUILDING SEWER LINE USE.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the City Sewer Department, to meet
all requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § H-3-9)
§ 54.10 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR INSTALLATION.
   Installation shall meet or exceed minimum standards set forth in the Uniform
Standards Plumbing Code, as currently adopted and amended by the state’s
Plumbing Commission.
(Prior Code, § H-3-10) (Ord. 809, passed - -; Ord. 939, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Plumbing Code, see §
150.03
§ 54.11 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS.
   (A)   Conditions requiring. Whenever any of the following conditions exist,
then a sewer backflow preventer shall be installed:
      (1)   New construction where the sewer is proposed to be connected to the
municipal sewer system;
      (2)   When substantial (greater than 50% value) remodeling occurs; or
      (3)   When an existing sewer service line is replaced.
   (B)   Requirements. It shall be protected from backflow of sewage by
installation of a backflow prevention device of an approved type and in the
manner prescribed by the Public Works Department. Any such backflow device
shall be installed by the applicant for sewer service at the sole cost and
expense of the applicant. The maintenance of the backflow device shall be the
sole obligation of the permit holder or his or her successor(s) in interest.
The city shall be under no obligation to ascertain the operating condition of
the backflow device in manner prescribed by the Public Works Department.
   (C)   Exception. Backflow preventers are not required where a sewer serves
plumbing fixtures that are located more than two feet above the base flood
elevation (BFE) of the nearest FEMA flood source and two feet above the rim
elevation of nearest upstream manhole in the reach in the sewer main into which
the service connects.
(Prior Code, § H-3-10) (Ord. 809, passed - -; Ord. 939, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
54.99
§ 54.12 CONNECTIONS TO CITY SEWER MAINS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   Each residential or nonresidential sewer line outside the corporate limits
of the city connected to the municipal sewer system for the purpose of treating
or disposing of private sewage or industrial waste, whether originating within
the municipality, within one mile of the corporate limits or from sewer
districts established in accordance with state statute, shall be covered by an
agreement/permit between the city and the owner. The agreement/permit must
stipulate rates, billing procedures and other provisions as the city may
determine appropriate for the privilege of using the municipal sewer service.
(Prior Code, § H-3-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§  9-43-127 and 9-48-32
§ 54.13 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected, directly or indirectly, to
a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee for purposes of disposal of surface or
groundwater drainage and a permit to discharge has been issued pursuant to §
54.31 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § H-3-11) Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9
§ 54.14 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall
be made under the supervision of the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
(Prior Code, § H-3-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9
§ 54.15 EXCAVATION AND BARRICADE REQUIREMENTS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § H-3-13) Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-9
DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 54.30 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS, STORMWATER RUNOFF.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage or cooling water to any sewer, except stormwater runoff from limited
areas, which stormwater may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the
sanitary sewer by permission of the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
(Prior Code, § H-3-14)
   (B)   Stormwater other than that exempted under division (A) above and all
other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee and
other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process
waters may be discharged, on approval of the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § H-3-15)
Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
§ 54.31 PERMIT TO DISCHARGE WATER FROM BASEMENT SUMP PUMPS TO SANITARY SEWERS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
54.30 of this chapter, any person, corporation, partnership or business may
discharge unpolluted subsurface water from basement sump pumps into the
sanitary sewer between October 15 and April 1, provided a permit for
discharging has been obtained from the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee. Said permit to discharge shall become null and void upon repeal of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § H-3-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
§ 54.32 ITEMS NOT ALLOWED TO BE DISCHARGED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or impair the treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the receiving waters
of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater works; and
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Prior Code, § H-3-17) Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
§ 54.33 WASTES RESTRICTED BY CONCENTRATION OR QUANTITY LIMITS.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment; will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or will not
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Director of Public Works or his or her designee may set limitations lower than
the limitations established in the regulations below if, in his or her opinion,
such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In
forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability, the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee will give consideration to such factors as the
quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process
employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of
the waste in the wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
wastes or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F or 65°C;
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, products of mineral oil origin or nonbiodegradable cutting oils;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see § 54.02 of
this chapter). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such a degree that any such
material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works
exceeds the limits established by the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee in compliance with applicable state or federal
regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow or concentrations, or both, which constitute a
“slug” as defined herein;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(Prior Code, § H-3-18) (Ord. 530, passed - -; Ord. 538, passed 2-7-1983)
Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
§ 54.34 ALTERNATIVES FOR CONTROL; DIRECTOR TO REJECT OR REQUIRE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
54.33 of this chapter, and which, in the judgment of the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee, may have a harmful effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
51.064.
(Prior Code, § H-3-19)
   (B)   When considering the alternatives in division (A) above, the Director
of Public Works or his or her designee shall give consideration to the economic
impact of each alternative on the discharger. If the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § H-3-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
§ 54.35 PRETREATMENT, FLOW EQUALIZATION AT OWNER’S EXPENSE.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § H-3-22) Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
§ 54.36 INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided by the user when,
in the opinion of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease
in excessive amounts, as specified in §
54.33 of this chapter, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   (B)   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captivated material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal, which are subject to review by the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed
by the owner or the owner’s personnel must be performed by currently licensed
waste disposal firms.
(Prior Code, § H-3-21) Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
§ 54.37 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS ALLOWED.
   No statement contained in §
54.34(A) of this chapter shall be construed as preventing any special agreement
or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city
for treatment.
(Prior Code, § H-3-26)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
OBSERVATION, TESTING AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 54.50 METERS REQUIRED FOR OBSERVATION, SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT.
   When required by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, the
owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes
shall install a suitable structure, together with such necessary meters and
other appurtenances, in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling
and measurement of the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be
accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans
approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee. The structure
shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained
by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § H-3-23) Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
§ 54.51 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR DETERMINING COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee may require a user
of sewer services to provide information needed to determine compliance with
this chapter.
   (B)   These requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analysis of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility locations;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Prior Code, § H-3-24)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
§ 54.52 SAMPLING METHODS.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis, subject to approval by the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § H-3-25)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
§ 54.53 VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Violation of this
section is punishable according to the provisions of §
54.99 of this code, and this remedy is in addition to the ability of the city
to recover the cost of repair.
(Prior Code, § H-3-27) Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1, 9-32-9 and 22-34-28
§ 54.54 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee and other duly
authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter, at reasonable times, upon all properties for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing,
pertinent to discharges into the community sewer system, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee or other duly
authorized employees are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial
processes that have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system. The industry may withhold information that it
demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee, constitutes a trade secret or would result in advantage to
competitors if revealed to the public.
(Prior Code, § H-3-28)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-32-9
§ 54.55 HEARING BOARD.
   (A)   A hearing board shall be appointed as needed for arbitration of
differences between the Director of Public Works or his or her designee and
sewer users on matters concerning interpretation and execution of the
provisions of this chapter by the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee. The cost of the arbitration will be divided equally between the city
and the sewer user.
   (B)   The Hearing Board shall consist of the City Council, the Mayor and any
specialist so deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § H-3-29)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-8-5
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
except §
54.53 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § H-3-30)
      (2)   (a)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in this division (B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be penalized according to the provisions of §
10.99 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be penalized according to the provisions of §
10.99.
         (b)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation. If compliance is not made as required in the
notice, the city may rectify the condition and impose a lien upon the property
where violation occurred.
(Prior Code, § H-3-31)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 9-32-9
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL
      
72.   PARKING, STANDING AND STORING MOTOR VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Purpose
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Prerequisites to operation
   
70.04   Place of operation
   
70.05   Horns and sirens
   
70.06   Exhibition driving
   
70.07   Careless driving
   
70.08   Beer or alcoholic beverage containers in motor vehicles
   
70.09   Report of accident
   
70.10   Leaving scene of accident
   
70.11   Emergency vehicles
   
70.12   Parking of volunteer vehicles
   
70.13   Abandoned vehicle removal
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned/inoperative motor vehicles as nuisances, see §§
92.15 through
92.29
§ 70.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Traffic Code is to describe the regulations of motor
vehicles operating within the city regarding the place of operation, manner of
operation, prerequisites to operation, speed regulations, parking regulations
and establishment of snow routes to ensure the safe movement of motor vehicles
upon the streets and alleyways of the city.
(Prior Code, § N-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2 and 9-31-1
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Traffic Code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any inoperable or unlicensed motor vehicle which is
left unattended on any public street, alley, public place or parking lot within
the city for a longer period than 24 hours without notifying the local law
enforcement and making arrangements for the parking of such motor vehicle. This
definition shall also apply to any vehicle in violation of §
72.08 of this code.
   CITY. The City of Fort Pierre, South Dakota.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that does not have lawfully affixed
thereto both an unexpired license plate or plates and a motor vehicle
inspection certificate, if such certificate is required, or any motor vehicle
which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative or discarded.
An OPERATING VEHICLE is one that demonstrates self-propelled ability upon
request of law enforcement.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any mode of transportation powered by engine or motor,
including motorcycles and ATVs.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not public property as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley or highway, which shall include the
entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for
the purposes of vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned
property or facility.
   STREET. Unless otherwise qualified, any public property which is open, or is
designed to be open, to travel by automobile, truck or other motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § N-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2, 9-31-1, 32-5-1 and 32-5-1.2
§ 70.03 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION.
   It is unlawful to drive or operate a motor vehicle upon any public property
within the city unless all of the following conditions are met.
   (A)   The driver or operator has in his or her possession a valid license or
permit to drive issued by an agency of a state or federal government to that
person.
   (B)   The motor vehicle is in conformity with all state safety requirements,
is in a condition which permits safe operation and, except for farm machinery,
mopeds and road maintenance equipment, is licensed by the state. No unlicensed
ATV or snowmobile may be operated along streets or alleyways.
   (C)   Neither the seating capacity nor the gross vehicle weight specified by
the manufacturer for that vehicle are exceeded.
(Prior Code, § N-2-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-31-1, 32-5-1.2, 32-20-1 and 32-20-12
§ 70.04 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   It is unlawful to drive a motor vehicle in the city or cause entry of a
motor vehicle:
   (A)   Upon private property without the consent of the property owner;
   (B)   Upon public property, except streets, between curbs, alleys,
designated driveways and parking lots;
   (C)   Upon any property that has been barricaded, fenced or otherwise closed
to traffic by private owner or as authorized by the city; or
   (D)   Upon any surface which is likely to be damaged by the vehicle due to
weight, load distribution or tire design without permission of the city or
owner of the private property.
(Prior Code, § N-2-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-31-1, 9-31-2 and SDCL Ch. 32-14
§ 70.05 HORNS AND SIRENS.
   It is unlawful to sound the horn of a motor vehicle unless necessary to
avert an imminent collision or traffic accident. No motor vehicle, other than
law enforcement vehicles, fire trucks and ambulances, may be equipped with or
sound sirens or audible emergency signals other than horns.
(Prior Code, § N-2-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-31-1 and 32-15-11
§ 70.06 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   It is unlawful to drive a motor vehicle in the city or cause a motor vehicle
to be operated:
   (A)   In excess of reasonable and prudent speeds where ice, rain, fog or
snow causes speed limits to be unsafe;
   (B)   So that any tire thereof slides, skids, spins, leaves the ground,
squeals or planes on water, unless conditions are so icy that these measures
are necessary for travel, or unless it is necessary to avoid imminent collision
due to unlawful or negligent acts of other persons or animals;
   (C)   So that unnecessary noise or smoke is emitted from the vehicle;
   (D)   So that the vehicle approaches within two feet of pedestrians,
skaters, skateboarders or bicyclists;
   (E)   With any person clinging to, seated or standing upon, or otherwise
traveling with but outside of, the vehicle;
   (F)   In reverse around a corner for a distance in excess of 30 feet or at a
speed in excess of five mph;
   (G)   With windshield or windows obstructed, obscured or fractured to a
degree that interferes with vision;
   (H)   At a speed greater than 25 mph unless in a speed zone designated by
signs specifying other limits, in which case, those limits may not be exceeded;
or
   (I)   With the unnecessary use of “jake brakes” or compression brakes,
except in emergency situations.
(Prior Code, § N-2-2) (Ord. 820, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-31-1 and 9-31-3
§ 70.07 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a highway, alley, public park or
recreational area, or upon the property of a public or private school, college
or university, carelessly and without due caution, at a speed or in a manner so
as to endanger any person or property not amounting to reckless driving as
defined in SDCL § 32-24-1, is guilty of careless driving.
(Prior Code, § N-2-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-31-1 and 9-31-3
§ 70.08 BEER OR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to have a package or any receptacle containing
an alcoholic beverage in his or her possession in a motor vehicle unless the
seal of the original package remains unbroken or the alcoholic beverage is so
removed that no occupant of the motor vehicle shall have access to it while the
vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § N-2-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-31-1, 9-31-4 and 35-1-9.1
§ 70.09 REPORT OF ACCIDENT.
   Any person causing or involved in a collision or other damage by or to a
motor vehicle shall immediately note the physical description of the vehicle or
vehicles involved and communicate the circumstances and description of the
incident to local law enforcement.
(Prior Code, § N-2-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 70.10 LEAVING SCENE OF ACCIDENT.
   No person shall leave the scene of an accident, collision or other damage by
or to a motor vehicle if that person owns or was operating a motor vehicle
involved in the accident prior to authorization by the investigating officer.
(Prior Code, § N-2-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-31-1 and 32-34-3
§ 70.11 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code shall not apply to the following,
provided such vehicles are responding to an emergency or are in the course of
official functions, such as apprehending violators:
   (A)   Local law enforcement, police, sheriff or highway patrol vehicles;
   (B)   Ambulance vehicles;
   (C)   Rescue squad vehicles; and
   (D)   Firefighting equipment.
(Prior Code, § N-6-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2, 9-31-1 and 32-31-1
§ 70.12 PARKING OF VOLUNTEER VEHICLES.
   The provisions of the Traffic Code on parking shall not apply to volunteer
firefighters, police reserve or rescue squad members as to their private
vehicles so long as said individuals are engaged in official duties.
(Prior Code, § N-6-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2, 9-31-1 and 32-31-1
§ 70.13 ABANDONED VEHICLE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Parking on public property. It is unlawful to park or place upon
streets or public property, of any nature, any motor vehicle, trailer,
equipment or implement which is not currently licensed and in operating
condition for periods in excess of 24 hours at the same location.
(Prior Code, § N-5-1)
   (B)   Notification. If the presence of the property does not constitute a
substantial hazard or obstacle to the public which utilizes the public property
upon which it is situated, the investigating officer shall attach an official
sticker, notice or citation to the vehicle or property in a conspicuous place
stating that the vehicle must be removed from public property within 24 hours
or it will be seized.
(Prior Code, § N-5-2)
   (C)   Seizure. Upon expiration of the 24-hour period, or upon determination
that the vehicle or property has been reported stolen or has otherwise been
misappropriated or used in the commission of a crime, or upon determination
that such vehicle or property poses a hazard or obstacle to users of the public
property, the vehicle or property shall be taken into custody and impounded, to
be disposed of pursuant to
Ch. 92 of this code.
(Prior Code, § N-5-3)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2 and 9-31-1
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this Traffic Code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §§
70.03 through
70.10 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of §§
70.03 through
70.10 or regulation promulgated thereunder shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § N-2-11)
   (C)   Careless driving, as set out in §
70.07 of this chapter, is a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § N-2-3)
   (D)   Any person in violation of §
70.13 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of §
70.13 or regulation promulgated thereunder shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § N-5-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-30-2, 9-31-1 and 9-31-3
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
   
71.01   Traffic direction
   
71.02   Emerging from alley, driveway
   
71.03   Speed limits
   
71.04   Speed zones
   
71.05   School safety zone areas
   
71.06   Truck routes
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 TRAFFIC DIRECTION.
   It is unlawful for anyone driving or operating a motor vehicle within the
city or its jurisdiction to:
   (A)   Fail to obey any city or state traffic sign, signal or pavement
marking;
   (B)   Cross any barricade lawfully placed in or across a street; or
   (C)   Fail or refuse to obey the direction of a law enforcement or city
employee engaged in directing traffic.
(Prior Code, § N-2-6) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 71.02 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY.
   It is unlawful to drive a motor vehicle from an alley, driveway, sidewalk or
any entrance onto a public street without first bringing the vehicle to a
complete stop at the crosswalk or sidewalk crossing.
(Prior Code, § N-2-5) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-31-1 and 32-25-16
§ 71.03 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to drive or cause operation of a motor vehicle in
excess of 25 mph, except as otherwise provided by signs, signals or traffic-
control devices in the area.
   (B)   Where signs, signals or traffic-control devices specify a speed less
than 25 mph, the lesser speed shall be the maximum permissible speed.
(Prior Code, § N-3-1) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-31-1, 9-31-3 and 32-14-3
§ 71.04 SPEED ZONES.
   The beginning of any speed zone is the location of the sign, signal or
traffic-control device that requires or permits decrease or increase of motor
vehicle speed. Such speed zone shall continue until the beginning of the next
speed zone.
(Prior Code, § N-3-2) (Ord. 1025, passed - -; Ord. 1042, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Speed zones, see
Chapter 73, Schedule I
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-31-1 and 9-31-3
§ 71.05 SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE AREAS.
   It is unlawful to drive or cause operation of a motor vehicle in excess of
15 mph when school safety zone signs are posted. The posted speed limit shall
apply when school is in session and when children are present.
(Prior Code, § N-3-3) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   School safety zone areas, see
Chapter 73, Schedule II
§ 71.06 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all truck drivers within the city limits to
drive and operate trucks having a gross vehicle weight exceeding 15,000 pounds
upon the routes designated, except trucks making local delivery and service
calls, who shall, nevertheless, follow the truck route or routes to the nearest
point of departure to the delivery or service call site.
   (B)   Trucks operating on city streets or highways may not exceed the weight
limits as defined by the state’s Motor Carrier Handbook, prepared by the
state’s Department of Transportation. The maximum axle and axle group loadings
as set forth in this section may be reduced. The City Council shall be
responsible for setting load limits and may increase, lessen or remove these
restrictions if street or highway conditions warrant. Any law enforcement
officer having reasonable cause to believe that the weight of a vehicle and
load is unlawful is authorized to weigh the same, either by means of portable
or stationary scales, and may require that such vehicle be driven to the
nearest scales.
   (C)   The city may close certain streets or portions of streets to truck
traffic (at or over 10,000 pounds gross) as it sees fit. Those streets shall be
signed, in accordance with the Manual of Uniform Traffic- Control Devices
(MUTCD), with “no through trucks” signs.
(Prior Code, § N-3-4) (Ord. 819, passed - -; Ord. 877, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Truck routes, see
Chapter 73, Schedule III
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §§
71.01 or
71.02 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be penalized as provided in §
70.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of §§
71.01 or
71.02 or regulation promulgated thereunder shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § N-2-11)
   (C)   Any person in violation of §§
71.03 through
71.06 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be penalized as provided in §
70.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of §§
71.03 through
71.06 or regulation promulgated thereunder shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § N-3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-31-1 and 9-31-3
CHAPTER 72: PARKING, STANDING AND STORING MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Parking time limits
   
72.02   Winter parking time restrictions
   
72.03   Parking orientation on streets
   
72.04   Parking orientation in parking lots
   
72.05   Handicapped parking
   
72.06   Parking restrictions
   
72.07   Blocking access or rights-of-way
   
72.08   No parking due to amount of snowfall
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PARKING TIME LIMITS.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle or trailer upon a public street for a
continuous period of more than 48 hours, except as specified in §§
72.02,
72.05,
72.06 or
72.08 of this chapter or
Ch. 74, Schd. II, of this code. If a shorter maximum time period is specified
by signs placed by the city, that maximum time period shall apply to the area.
(Prior Code, § N-4-6) (Ord. 888, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2 and 9-31-1
§ 72.02 WINTER PARKING TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   All types of boats, campers and recreational vehicles are not permitted to
park on any of the traveled portion of the public rights-of-way during the time
period of November 15 until March 15 of each year for a continuous period of
more than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § N-4-8.1) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING ORIENTATION ON STREETS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles on city streets shall be parked parallel to the right
curb, with the right wheels within two feet of the curb, unless the curb is
marked with diagonal lines.
   (B)   If the curb is marked with diagonal lines, motor vehicles not
exceeding 20 feet in length overall shall park diagonally between two
consecutive lines. Vehicles in excess of 20 feet in length overall may not be
parked in such areas.
(Prior Code, § N-4-1) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 72.04 PARKING ORIENTATION IN PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles shall be parked in parking lots as indicated by
pavement markings. Where no such markings exist, vehicles may be parked in any
manner so that entrance or exit is not blocked and no other vehicles are
trapped.
   (B)   It is unlawful to park in such a manner that access is blocked to any
vehicle entering, located in or leaving the lot.
(Prior Code, § N-4-2) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
§ 72.05 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   Motor vehicles shall not park in an area designated as handicapped parking
when such space is marked by a handicapped parking sign or handicapped pavement
markings unless the motor vehicle has a license plate or authorized temporary
permit with letters, numbers or symbols that readily apprise law enforcement
officers of the fact that the motor vehicle is owned, operated or used in
transporting a substantially disabled person.
(Prior Code, § N-4-7) (Ord. 888, passed - -; Ord. 1030, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2, 9-31-1 and 32-30-11.1
§ 72.06 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles shall not park in an area so designated by the city as
a “no parking zone” when such zone is marked either by “no parking” or by a
yellow painted curb.
   (B)   All types of vehicles, boats, campers and recreational vehicles are
permitted to park on public rights-of-way for up to 48 hours during the time
period of March 15 until November 15 of each year under the following
restrictions:
      (1)   No vehicles shall be parked less than 30 feet from an intersection,
as measured from the face of the curb of the intersecting road, or where marked
by a yellow curb, or where posted by a sign;
      (2)   No vehicles, boats, campers or recreational vehicles shall park on
a public roadway from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, May 1 to
November 1 when that roadway is scheduled to be swept pursuant to the sweeping
schedule as approved by the City Council. The schedule shall be posted at the
city office and displayed on the city’s website;
      (3)   Any vehicle in excess of 32 feet in length or eight feet in width
that restricts visibility or safety for vehicular traffic is prohibited from
parking on the public rights-of-way;
      (4)   No vehicles, boats, campers, trailers or recreational vehicles
shall park on the paved portion of the public right-of-way on rural section
roadways. PAVED PORTION is defined as the gravel, asphalt or concrete surface
area maintained by the city. No vehicles, boats, campers, trailers or
recreational vehicles shall park in the public right-of-way off of the paved
portion on rural section roadways for more than 24 consecutive hours; and
      (5)   No vehicles, boats, campers, trailers or recreational vehicles
shall park within 15 feet of the center of a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § N-4-7) (Ord. 888, passed - -; Ord. 1030, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Boats, campers, trailers or recreational vehicles, see
Chapter 74, Schedule II
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2, 9-31-1, 32-30-6(2) and 32-30-11.1
§ 72.07 BLOCKING ACCESS OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   It is unlawful to block the sidewalk or entrance to any driveway, alley or
other public property. Motor vehicles so parked are subject to removal and
impoundment by the proper law enforcement authority.
(Prior Code, § N-4-3) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2 and 9-31-1
§ 72.08 NO PARKING DUE TO AMOUNT OF SNOWFALL.
   There shall be no parking on the emergency snow routes when there is more
than two inches of snowfall until said routes have been cleared to the edges of
the street and not until all snowfall has ceased.
(Prior Code, § N-4-5) (Ord. 937, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Snow routes, see
Chapter 74, Schedule I
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2 and 9-31-1
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any vehicle in direct violation of §§
72.01 through
72.04,
72.06 and
72.07 of this chapter, inclusive, shall be fined $25 and/or be removed or
caused to be removed by local law enforcement and towed to a place of safety.
The cost of such towing and any storage charges shall be paid by the owner of
the vehicle in addition to the prescribed fine prior to release of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § N-4-8)
   (C)   The owner of any vehicle not displaying a serially numbered
certificate or special license plate, as set out in §
72.05 of this chapter, that is parked or stopped in a parking space or blocking
a parking space on public or private property designated as reserved for a
person with a physical disability commits a Class 2 misdemeanor. The court
shall assess a fine of not less than $100 if the parking space is marked in
accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines as
of January 1, 2002, being 36 C.F.R. pt. 1191.
(Prior Code, § N-4-10)
   (D)   Any vehicle in direct violation of §
72.08 of this chapter shall be fined $50 and the actual cost of removal and
towing if not removed within 24 hours of citation. The cost of such towing and
any storage charges shall be paid to the city by the owner of the vehicle in
addition to the prescribed fine prior to release of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § N-4-5.1)
(Ord. 830, passed - -; Ord. 937, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-30-2 and 9-31-1
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed zones
      
II.   School safety zone areas
      
III.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I. SPEED ZONES.
   (A)   Exception to the standard speed limit. The following speed zones shall
have a maximum speed limit other than the speed limit stated in §
71.03 of this code and shall be posted accordingly in compliance with the
current Manual of Uniform Traffic-Control Devices (MUTCD).
Location Maximum Speed Limit
Location                                             Maximum Speed Limit
Black and Yellow Trail                               15 mph
Dupree Trail                                         15 mph
Hollowood Trail                                      15 mph
Laramie Trail                                        15 mph
Lindsay Trail                                        15 mph
Medora Trail                                         15 mph
Prairie Villa Trail                                  15 mph
Rousseau Avenue from Highway 1806 east for 1,250 ft. 35 mph
Telegraph Trail                                      15 mph
 
(Prior Code, § N-3-2)
   (B)   Penalty. Any person in violation of any provision within this schedule
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be penalized as
provided in §
70.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of this schedule or regulation promulgated thereunder shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § N-3-4)
(Ord. 1025, passed - -; Ord. 1042, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-31-1 and 9-31-3
SCHEDULE II. SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated. The designated school safety zone areas shall be:
      (1)   Main Avenue from Second Street to one-half the distance between
State Highway 83 and Deadwood Street; and
      (2)   Second Avenue from Second Street to one-half of the distance
between State Highway 83 and Deadwood Street.
(Prior Code, § N-3-3)
   (B)   Penalty. Any person in violation of any provision within this schedule
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be penalized as
provided in §
70.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of this schedule or regulation promulgated thereunder shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § N-3-4)
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Routes. The routes shall be as follows:
      (1)   State Highway 34 within the city limits;
      (2)   State Highway 1806;
      (3)   U.S. Highway 14 and 83;
      (4)   Sale Barn, Stanley and Elevator Roads from Highway 14/34 to 83; and
      (5)   Waldron Street, Far West Avenue and the County Road, all south of
Highway 14/34.
(Prior Code, § N-3-4)
   (B)   Penalty. Any person in violation of any provision within this schedule
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be penalized as
provided in §
70.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of this schedule or regulation promulgated thereunder shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § N-3-4)
(Ord. 819, passed - -; Ord. 877, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-31-1
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Snow routes
      
II.   Boats, campers, trailers or recreational vehicles
SCHEDULE I. SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   Routes. The following streets, avenues, drives, trails and roads are
declared emergency snow routes:
      (1)   The entirety of Deadwood Street, Verendrye Drive, Park Avenue, Sale
Barn Road, Port Charlotte Avenue, Rousseau Avenue, Laramie Trail, Telegraph
Trail, Black and Yellow Trail, Lindsay Trail from Laramie Trail to Black and
Yellow Trail and North Second Street;
      (2)   Seventh Avenue from Deadwood Street to Marion Street;
      (3)   Fifth Avenue East from First Street to Missouri Street, then
Missouri Street north from Fifth Avenue to Sixth Avenue, then Sixth Avenue east
from Missouri Street to Marion Street then Marion Street north from Sixth
Avenue to Ninth Avenue then Ninth Avenue from Marion Street to First Street;
      (4)   Second Avenue east from First Street to Deadwood Street and Main
Avenue west from Deadwood Street to Fifth Street, then Fifth Street south from
Main Avenue to First Avenue, then First Avenue from Fifth Street to Second
Street;
      (5)   Fourth Street north from Park Avenue to Cedar Avenue then west on
Cedar Avenue to city limits;
      (6)   Casey Tibbs Street south from Ash Avenue to Scotty Philip Avenue;
      (7)   Scotty Philip Avenue east from First Street to Two Rivers Street
then Two Rivers Street south from Scotty Philip Avenue to Laframboise Drive and
Laframboise Drive from Two Rivers Street to Scotty Phillips Avenue;
      (8)   Skerrols Street from U.S. Highway 14/34 to Islay Avenue, then west
on Islay Avenue to Mull Street, then north on Mull Street to Jura Avenue, then
west on Jura Avenue to Tiree Drive, then north and west on Tiree Drive to
Waldron Street, then south on Waldron Street to U.S. Highway 14/34; and
      (9)   Waldron Street north from Tiree Drive to Dakota Avenue then Dakota
Avenue east from Waldron Street to Levee Street then Levee Street north from
Dakota Avenue to Pheba Avenue then Pheba Avenue east to Whispering Shores Drive
then Whispering Shores Drive north from Pheba Avenue to Rousseau Avenue.
(Prior Code, § N-4-4)
   (B)   Penalty. Any vehicle in direct violation of this schedule shall be
fined in accordance with §
72.99(D) and/or be removed or caused to be removed by local law enforcement and
towed to a place of safety. The cost of such towing and any storage charges
shall be paid by the owner of the vehicle in addition to the prescribed fine
prior to release of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § N-4-5.1)
(Ord. 871, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2 and 9-31-1
SCHEDULE II. BOATS, CAMPERS, TRAILERS OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Restrictions. No boats, campers, trailers or recreational vehicles
shall park on:
      (1)   Main Avenue from the railroad east to Deadwood Street;
      (2)   Deadwood Street from Main Avenue north to Sixth Avenue; and
      (3)   Any street where diagonal parking is indicated by sign or pavement
markings.
(Prior Code, § N-4-7)
   (B)   Penalty. Any vehicle in direct violation of this schedule shall be
fined in accordance with §
72.99(D) and/or be removed or caused to be removed by local law enforcement and
towed to a place of safety. The cost of such towing and any storage charges
shall be paid by the owner of the vehicle in addition to the prescribed fine
prior to release of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § N-4-8)
(Ord. 888, passed - -; Ord. 1030, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2, 9-31-1 and 32-30-11.1
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   POLLUTION
      
92.   NUISANCES OR HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Purpose
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Requirements for keeping pets
   
90.004   Pet licenses
   
90.005   Term of license
   
90.006   Livestock; licensing and zoning
Care and Treatment of Animals
   
90.020   Abuse of animals
   
90.021   Hunting, trapping and destruction
Restrictions and Violations
   
90.035   Harboring undesirable animals
   
90.036   Biting and diseased animals
   
90.037   Animal offenses
Dangerous or Vicious Dogs
   
90.050   Purpose
   
90.051   Definition
   
90.052   Public nuisance; notice to remove
   
90.053   Abatement upon failure to comply
   
90.054   Hearing
   
90.055   Authority of law
Impoundment
   
90.070   Impoundment; disposition
   
90.071   Veterinary care of apprehended animals
   
90.072   Fees; holding limit before disposal
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to define the types of animals allowed
and prohibited within the city, enumerate the exceptions and guidelines for
these exceptions, describe the licensing requirements of the city and describe
the types of animals that need to be licensed and the terms of such licenses,
and to establish rules regarding livestock within the city limits, undesirable
animals and policies related thereto, and to generally describe and enumerate
offenses causes by animals, abusive animals, destruction, impoundment and
penalties for such violations.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall be considered a public nuisance,
and penalties shall be provided therefore.
(Prior Code, § L-8-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-29-11, 9-29-12, 11-4-1 and 40-2-5
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FERAL ANIMALS. Livestock or pets not effectively controlled by any person
and exhibiting predatory, scavenger or vicious tendencies.
   LIVESTOCK. Mammals or birds of a type which are typically kept for draft,
production of food or the hides, plumage or pelts of which are generally
marketable. This includes, but is not limited to, cattle, buffalo, sheep,
goats, swine, poultry, mink, chinchilla, nutria, horses, donkeys, burros and
rabbits.
   PETS. Mammals of a type generally housed in or near a human habitation and
kept for companionship, protection, hunting or show. This includes, but is not
limited to, dogs, cats, monkeys and domesticated wild animals, such as skunks
and raccoons. Guide dogs are not PETS.
   WILD ANIMALS. Mammals, reptiles or birds of a type not commonly domesticated
which are indigenous to this or other areas and not subject to immediate human
control or restraint.
(Prior Code, § L-8-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-29-12
§ 90.003 REQUIREMENTS FOR KEEPING PETS.
   Pets may be kept, maintained, harbored or in custody of a person within the
city only if all of the following criteria are met.
   (A)   The owner, keeper or custodian of the pet has applied for and received
a license for said pet as required herein.
   (B)   A registration tag bearing the legible number of the license for the
animal is securely fastened to the animal’s collar or harness and is clearly
visible.
   (C)   The animal is restrained by a leash, lead, tether or chain fastened to
an immobile object or held in the hand of a person capable of controlling the
animal, or is confined within a building, kennel, pen, run or enclosure from
which it cannot escape.
(Prior Code, § L-8-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 90.004 PET LICENSES.
   Licenses as herein required shall be issued for individual animals when the
following prerequisites are satisfied as to each animal:
   (A)   Application is made to the City Finance Officer or his or her designee
on the form provided;
   (B)   Applicant warrants that the animal is not vicious and will not be
permitted to run at large;
   (C)   Veterinarian’s certificate that the animal has a current vaccination
against rabies;
   (D)   The current license fee is satisfied;
   (E)   Presentation of a veterinarian’s certificate or receipt that the
animal has been neutered or spayed; and
   (F)   All dogs must be licensed annually on or before January 15 of the new
fiscal year. A grace period of 15 days will be allowed. The license fee for
dogs shall be $50, and the license fee for dogs that are neutered or spayed
shall be $10.
(Prior Code, § L-8-4) (Ord. 895, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 90.005 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire at midnight on
December 31 of the year in which issued. No citation shall be issued for
failure to license an animal until two weeks after the lapse of a previous
valid license.
(Prior Code, § L-8-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 90.006 LIVESTOCK; LICENSING AND ZONING.
   (A)   No person shall keep, maintain, harbor, have in custody or under
control or permit upon property owned or occupied by such person any livestock
within the city, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § L-8-6)
   (B)   (1)   Any person wishing to keep any livestock on his or her property
within the city shall first occupy an area specifically zoned for animal
husbandry and submit an application to the city, or his or her designee, upon
the form furnished by the City Finance Office.
      (2)   Applications shall set forth the legal description of the property,
the area in square feet of the enclosure, the type and number of animals to be
kept there and the means by which the animals will be confined.
(Prior Code, § L-8-7)
Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-29-12, 9-29-13 and 9-32-7
CARE AND TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
§ 90.020 ABUSE OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall maltreat, abuse or neglect any animal, nor inflict pain or
suffering of any kind upon any animal, except for purposes of training, and
then such pain shall be of a temporary nature only. This section shall not
apply to animal control or police officers in the performance of their duty.
(Prior Code, § L-8-11) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-11
§ 90.021 HUNTING, TRAPPING AND DESTRUCTION.
   No person shall hunt, trap or otherwise injure or destroy any bird or pet
within the city. This provision shall not apply to licensed veterinary
physicians, city animal control or law enforcement officers or the use of live
traps by the citizenry.
(Prior Code, § L-8-12) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-29-11
RESTRICTIONS AND VIOLATIONS
§ 90.035 HARBORING UNDESIRABLE ANIMALS.
   No person shall permit feral animals or vicious animals of any type to
remain upon property owned or occupied by said person within the city.
(Prior Code, § L-8-8) (Ord. 895, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-29-13 and 9-32-1
§ 90.036 BITING AND DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Upon report that an animal is acting in a strange or uncharacteristic
manner or appears to be in ill health, the animal control officer or local law
enforcement officer shall investigate and shall order that the animal be
impounded by the city for a period of time as recommended by a doctor of
veterinary science.
   (B)   Such impoundment shall be at the expense of the owner of the animal or
of the city, if the owner cannot be ascertained.
(Prior Code, § L-8-9) (Ord. 895, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-12 and 9-32-1
§ 90.037 ANIMAL OFFENSES.
   No person shall permit animals owned or kept by such person to:
   (A)   Run at large or leave the real or personal property owned or leased by
such person unless physically restrained or controlled by a leash, lead, tether
or other attachment;
   (B)   Emit or produce sound of a nature generally considered noisome,
noxious or irritating; or
   (C)   Defecate upon public property or private property owned by another
person unless such deposit is promptly and effectively disposed of.
(Prior Code, § L-8-10) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-12, 9-29-13 and 9-32-1
DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOGS
§ 90.050 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to eliminate dangerous or vicious dogs
from the city from the effective date of this subchapter. It is the further
purpose of this subchapter to ensure that all persons owning, possessing,
keeping or maintaining any dangerous or vicious dog prior to the effective date
of this subchapter shall remove such dangerous or vicious dog from the city.
(Prior Code, § L-9-1) (Ord. 895, passed - -)
§ 90.051 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, in a vicious or terrorizing manner
approaches in apparent attitude of attack, or bites, inflicts injury, assaults
or otherwise attacks, a human being upon the streets, sidewalks or any public
grounds or place; or
      (2)   Any dog which, on private property, when unprovoked, in a vicious
or terrifying manner approaches in apparent attitude of attack, or bites or
inflicts injury or otherwise attacks, a person who is on private property by
reason of a course of dealing with the owner of such private property.
(Prior Code, § L-9-2) (Ord. 895, passed - -)
§ 90.052 PUBLIC NUISANCE; NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   No person may own, possess, keep or maintain a dangerous or vicious
dog, as defined by this subchapter, within the city. The presence of such
dangerous or vicious dog on public or private property is hereby declared a
public nuisance, which shall be abated in accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever it comes to the attention of the Sheriff’s Office, any member
of the City Council or any officer or employee of the city that the nuisance of
a dangerous or vicious dog exists, a notice by registered mail or personal
service may be served on the person owning, possessing, keeping or maintaining
such nuisance demanding removal or disposal of the nuisance within five days.
(Prior Code, § L-9-3) (Ord. 895, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.053 ABATEMENT UPON FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied in the
five-day period, a person designated by the City Council, a city employee or a
Sheriff’s officer shall have the authority to enter upon private property and
take possession of the dangerous or vicious dog and impound the dog, at the
owner’s expense, in an animal shelter designated by the City Council.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or
refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon private property for the
purpose of abating a nuisance under this section.
(Prior Code, § L-9-4) (Ord. 895, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.054 HEARING.
   (A)   If the person accused of owning, keeping or maintaining a dangerous or
vicious dog wishes to contest the allegation, that person may request a hearing
in writing and deliver the request to the City Finance Officer prior to the
expiration of the five-day period. A hearing shall be held within three days
from the service of the request for the hearing before the Animal Review Board,
which shall consist of at least three City Council members.
   (B)   The Animal Review Board shall notify in writing the owner of the
animal of its decision within three days following the hearing. In the event
that the owner of the animal is found to own, possess, keep or maintain a
dangerous or vicious dog, as defined in this subchapter, that accused shall
have an additional three days to abate the nuisance, and if it is not abated
within the time prescribed, the abatement procedure in §
90.053 of this chapter shall be carried out. The dangerous or vicious dog that
is impounded shall be euthanized in a humane manner at the expiration of five
days.
(Prior Code, § L-9-5) (Ord. 895, passed - -)
§ 90.055 AUTHORITY OF LAW.
   This subchapter shall not be treated or construed as exclusive of any other
remedy as provided by law, but as cumulative merely.
(Prior Code, § L-9-6) (Ord. 895, passed - -)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.070 IMPOUNDMENT; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Any animal found in the city in violation of this chapter shall be
impounded by any law enforcement officer, animal control officer and/or city
employee and placed in the animal shelter. Upon impoundment of any animal, the
animal shall remain in the custody of law enforcement until the animal is
redeemed by the owner or person in charge, adopted or destroyed in a humane
manner. The law enforcement officer, animal control officer and/or city
employee shall, within 24 hours of the impounding of such animal, make a
reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the animal having been impounded and
notify the owner that the animal is being kept in the custody of the shelter.
If the owner of the animal is unknown, the law enforcement officer, animal
control officer and/or city employee shall note in the animal control log,
located at the City Office, the description of the animal and state the time
and place the animal was apprehended, and the place where it is being kept, and
how the same may be recovered by the owner.
   (B)   Unless a licensed animal is redeemed by the owner or person having
charge thereof and all charges are paid for its keep and necessary care, and
unless the owner of an unlicensed animal registered and licensed the animal as
provided by this chapter, the animal shall be adopted or destroyed in a humane
manner after the expiration of at least 24 hours from the time when notice that
the animal was apprehended and impounded has been, or has attempted to be,
given, or in the case of an animal whose owner is unknown, the animal shall be
released for adoption or destroyed not sooner than 24 hours after impoundment.
   (C)   However, any animal which has been diagnosed by a licensed
veterinarian to be suffering from rabies or dangerous contagious disease shall
not be released, but shall be destroyed forthwith or otherwise held or disposed
of according to the veterinarian’s recommendations.
(Prior Code, § L-8-13) (Ord. 895, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 90.071 VETERINARY CARE OF APPREHENDED ANIMALS.
   Any animal apprehended under this chapter in need of emergency veterinarian
care, where the city is unable to immediately identify, contact and communicate
with the owner within one hour, shall be provided with such care at the cost of
the owner. The owner is deemed to have consented to such veterinarian care as
the veterinarian determines, in his or her sole discretion, is required. Any
animal impounded under §
90.020 of this chapter and not reclaimed by its owner within 24 hours or the
next business day from the time of the impoundment may be adopted or humanely
destroyed. The law enforcement officer, animal control officer or city employee
may authorize the licensed veterinarian to provide the minimum care of any
animal or to destroy any sick or injured or feral animal which has been
impounded if its condition is such so as to make its earlier destruction
necessary or desirable. All animals destroyed shall be destroyed in a humane
manner.
(Prior Code, § L-8-13) (Ord. 895, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 90.072 FEES; HOLDING LIMIT BEFORE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Owners of dogs which are impounded shall pay:
 
Impoundment Number   Fee
First                $50, plus actual cost of boarding
Second               $100, plus actual cost of boarding
Third and subsequent $200, plus actual cost of boarding
 
   (B)   Impounded dogs will be disposed of in a humane way after the fifth day
of impoundment, and fines, impoundment costs and disposal costs shall be
assessed to the owner of the pet. If the dog is impounded as a vicious or
dangerous dog, the dog will be disposed of in a humane manner if the owner of
the dog does not file a written request for hearing pursuant to §
90.054 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § L-8-4) (Ord. 895, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Violation of any section within this chapter, aside from §§
90.050 through
90.055 of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of this chapter, except as set out otherwise, or regulation
promulgated thereunder shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § L-8-14)
   (C)   Failure to license pets annually or upon acquisition as set out in §
90.004(F) of this chapter shall result in a fine of $25 and, in addition, the
owner shall pay for license fees and required shots.
(Prior Code, § L-8-4)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or
refuse to allow such person or persons as set out in §
90.053 of this chapter to enter upon private property for the purpose of
abating a nuisance under §
90.053 and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § L-9-4)
(Ord. 895, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 91: POLLUTION
Section
Noise and Sound Pollution
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Permissible sound levels
   
91.03   Exceptions
Air Pollution
   
91.15   Purpose
   
91.16   Odors
   
91.17   Gases
   
91.18   Dust and particulates
   
91.19   Burning refuse
Water Pollution
   
91.30   Purpose
   
91.31   Surface water
   
91.32   Insect control
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NOISE AND SOUND POLLUTION
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to define the permissible sound levels
that may be generated in the city, declare excessive noise levels as a public
nuisance, create exceptions for motor vehicles and chain saws with properly
attached and functioning mufflers and provide penalties for violations of any
section contained within this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § L-6-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-29-13
§ 91.02 PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS.
   (A) It is unlawful to generate or cause to be generated any sound, sonic
energy or impulses with a frequency between 20 and 20,000 hertz at a level
exceeding 100 decibels, measured two feet from the source, without a license
from the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
   (B)   Any noise exceeding these levels shall be considered a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § L-6-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-29-13
§ 91.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles and chain saws are excepted from the operation of §
91.02 of this chapter, provided an original equipment-type muffler, silencer or
spark arrester is properly attached and functioning and no bypass or defeat
mechanism is present. In such instances, however, the operator must take
precautions to minimize the sound by maintaining reduced throttle settings
where possible and minimizing use in public places.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the use of “jake brakes,” which may be
used only in emergency situations.
(Prior Code, § L-6-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-29-13
AIR POLLUTION
§ 91.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish that it be the public policy
of the city to achieve and maintain reasonable levels of air quality which will
protect human health and safety, prevent injury to plant and animal life and
property, foster the comfort and convenience of its inhabitants, promote the
economic and social development of the city and, to the greatest degree
practicable, facilitate the enjoyment of the natural attractions of the city.
(Prior Code, § L-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-32-1 and 34A-1-1
§ 91.16 ODORS.
   It is unlawful to emit or cause to be emitted into the atmosphere foul,
noxious or nauseating odors other than those released as a result of common
biological processes by humans or domestic animals.
(Prior Code, § L-4-5) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13 and 9-32-1
§ 91.17 GASES.
   It is unlawful to release or cause the release of any gaseous matter that is
flammable, toxic or corrosive into the atmosphere.
(Prior Code, § L-4-6) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-1
§ 91.18 DUST AND PARTICULATES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate batch plants for concrete or bituminous
paving production, or other operations involving stockpiling or dust-generating
activities, without receiving prior approval from the EPA and taking every
precaution to minimize release of dust and dirt into the air.
(Prior Code, § L-4-3)
   (B)   The Public Works Department may require watering or may suspend
operations if dust is released in such quantities that human health and safety
are jeopardized. After reasonable notice to any person or persons in violation
of this section, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee may enter
the premises and distribute water or take other measures reasonably necessary
to prevent the damaging release of dust, and the cost of such measures shall be
defrayed by taxing the cost thereof by special assessment against the real
property on which the nuisance occurred to the property owner as provided for
the removal of weeds.
(Prior Code, § L-4-4)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-13, 9-32-1 and 21-10-6
§ 91.19 BURNING REFUSE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to light or maintain any fire anywhere in the city,
except as noted in divisions (B) and (C) below, so close to any building or
structure or any flammable material, other than that to be burned, so as to
cause a fire hazard.
   (B)   The City Council shall specify when any and all leaves, bonfires and
outdoor rubbish fires may be permitted.      
   (C)   If a building is to be burned under the supervision of the Fire
Department, the owner(s) shall obtain a demolition permit, signed by the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee and the Fire Chief, as set
forth in the uniform building codes, and any amendatory acts thereof, adopted
pursuant to §
150.01 of this code. Before issuing said demolition permit, the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee must be satisfied that utilities and
adjacent properties are not endangered.
   (D)   The burning of garbage or refuse that smolders or gives off noxious
odors is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § L-4-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-1 and 34A-1-18
WATER POLLUTION
§ 91.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional and cumulative
remedies to prevent, abate and control the pollution of waters within the
territorial jurisdiction of the city. It is the intention of the City Council
to provide rules and regulations regarding the cleanliness of surface water
located within the territorial jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § L-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-8 or 9-32-10
§ 91.31 SURFACE WATER.
   (A)   It is unlawful to discharge, or cause to be discharged, human or
animal waste, petroleum products, refuse or toxic chemicals of any type into
surface water located wholly or partially within the territorial jurisdiction
of the city.
   (B)   This shall not apply to employees of the city in the course of
performing duties and is not applicable to the municipal sewer treatment
facility.
(Prior Code, § L-5-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-10
§ 91.32 INSECT CONTROL.
   Persons owning property within the city shall prevent the infestation of any
water on said property by mosquitoes or other noxious insects by draining the
water, covering it or treating it so as to destroy the insects without posing a
threat to the health and safety of humans or animals.
(Prior Code, § L-5-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-1
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §§
91.01 through
91.03 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.03 or regulation promulgated thereunder shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § L-6-4)
   (C)   Any person in violation of §§
91.15 through
91.19 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.19 or regulation promulgated thereunder shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § L-4-7)
   (D)   Any person in violation of §§
91.30 through
91.32 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of §§
91.30 through
91.32 or regulation promulgated thereunder shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § L-5-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES OR HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Property Maintenance Code
Abandoned or Inoperative Motor Vehicles
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Nuisance declared
   
92.17   Violations upon private property
   
92.18   Notification of property owner to remove
   
92.19   Abatement responsibility of vehicle and property owners
   
92.20   Notice of removal contents
   
92.21   Violations upon city property
   
92.22   Removal of vehicle by city
   
92.23   Notification of owner of removal
   
92.24   Public sale
   
92.25   Notice of sale contents
   
92.26   Lien created
   
92.27   Sale proceeds
   
92.28   Balance of sale proceeds; unclaimed property
   
92.29   Cover required for certain vehicles
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicle removal from streets or public property, see §
70.13
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to define what constitutes a nuisance
or a hazardous condition to aid in the promotion of health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the community of the city.
(Prior Code, § L-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-29-13
§ 92.02 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   For this section, refer to the Property Maintenance Code adopted in §
150.01.
(Prior Code, § L-3-1-1) (Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 1012, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 11-10-11
ABANDONED OR INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is left unattended on any
public street, alley, public place or parking lot within the city for a period
longer than 24 hours without notifying the chief law enforcement officer and
making arrangements for the parking of such motor vehicle.
   CITY. The City of Fort Pierre, South Dakota.
   DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which principal parts or
components have been removed, rendering the unit unable to move in a safe
manner under its own power.
   INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle in which the primary power
plant or motive force is nonfunctional.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that does not have lawfully affixed
thereto an unexpired license plate or a current registration.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground, and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motor scooters, motorcycles, trucks, tractors, go-karts, golf
carts, campers and trailers.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not public property as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley or highway, which shall include the
entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for
the purpose of vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned
property or facility.
   WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that has been rendered unsightly or
hazardous by collision, fire or mechanical compression.
(Prior Code, § L-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 32-30-12 through 32-30-18 and 32-
32-2
§ 92.16 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked or
partially dismantled motor vehicle, or parts thereof, on private or public
property is hereby declared a public nuisance. This section shall not apply to
any motor vehicle enclosed within a building on private property or to any
motor vehicle held in connection with a business enterprise and properly
operated in the appropriate business zone, pursuant to the zoning law of the
city, or to any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or
designed for operation on drag strips or raceways and covered with an
appropriate cover to screen it from view, or to any motor vehicle in an
appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner
by the city or authorized by the city.
(Prior Code, § L-3-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13 and 9-32-1
§ 92.17 VIOLATIONS UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person owning, in charge of, or in control of any
real property within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, to allow any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked or
partially dismantled motor vehicle of any kind to remain on such property
longer than 96 hours.
(Prior Code, § L-3-12) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-2 and 9-29-13
§ 92.18 NOTIFICATION OF PROPERTY OWNER TO REMOVE.
   Whenever it comes to the attention of the local law enforcement agency that
any person has an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked or
partially dismantled motor vehicle on his or her property, notice in writing
shall be served upon such person requesting the removal of such motor vehicle
in the time specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § L-3-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-29-2 and 9-29-13
§ 92.19 ABATEMENT RESPONSIBILITY OF VEHICLE AND PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Upon proper notice, the owner of the abandoned, wrecked, dismantled,
inoperative, junked or partially dismantled motor vehicle and the owner or
occupant of the private property on which the same is located, either or all of
them, shall be responsible for its removal.
(Prior Code, § L-3-14) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 9-29-13
§ 92.20 NOTICE OF REMOVAL CONTENTS.
   The local law enforcement agency shall give notice of removal to the owner
or occupant of the private property where the vehicle is located. It shall
constitute sufficient notice when a copy of same is sent by registered mail or
hand-delivered by a member of the local law enforcement agency to the owner or
occupant of the private property at his or her last known address. The notice
shall contain the request for removal within seven days after the mailing or
delivering of such notice, and the notice shall advise that failure to comply
with the notice to remove shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § L-3-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 9-29-13
§ 92.21 VIOLATIONS UPON CITY PROPERTY.
   No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or leaving
of any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked or partially
dismantled motor vehicle of any kind, whether attended or not, upon any public
property within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § L-3-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 9-32-1 and 32-30-12.1
§ 92.22 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE BY CITY.
   Whenever the Director of Public Works or his or her designee finds an
abandoned motor vehicle or an unattended motor vehicle which is in a wrecked,
dismantled, inoperative, junked or partially dismantled condition on public
property within the city, he or she is hereby authorized to provide for the
immediate removal of such motor vehicle to a garage or place of safety. A motor
vehicle that causes an obstruction and hazard to traffic may be removed at any
time under the direction of the local law enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § L-3-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 32-30-12.1 and 32-30-13
§ 92.23 NOTIFICATION OF OWNER OF REMOVAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
to notify by registered mail or hand-deliver a written notice to the registered
owner, if known, and if encumbered, to the lien holder, of the removal and
storage of any vehicle under the provisions of this subchapter and where such
motor vehicle has been stored. If the owner is unknown, a notice of removal and
storage shall be given by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the county.
(Prior Code, § L-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 32-30-15 and 32-36-8
§ 92.24 PUBLIC SALE.
   If, after 30 days from the date of mailing or publishing the notice of
removal and storage provided for by this subchapter, the motor vehicle shall
remain unclaimed, then such motor vehicle may be sold by the local law
enforcement agency at a public auction upon notice, to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county not less than once a week for
two consecutive weeks.
(Prior Code, § L-3-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 32-36-9 and 32-36-11
§ 92.25 NOTICE OF SALE CONTENTS.
   The notice of sale provided for by this subchapter shall contain a
description of the removed and stored vehicle, including the year, make, model,
serial number, color and license number, if any, a statement that the motor
vehicle was found abandoned, the date thereof and the place, date and time at
which such motor vehicle shall be sold, which date shall not be sooner than one
week following the date of the last publication.
(Prior Code, § L-3-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 32-30-15, 32-36-8, 32-36-9 and 32-
36-11
§ 92.26 LIEN CREATED.
   The local law enforcement agency or city shall have a possessory lien upon
any motor vehicle removed under the provisions of this subchapter for the costs
in taking custody of and storing such motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § L-3-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13 and 32-30-18
§ 92.27 SALE PROCEEDS.
   If, after 30 days from the date of mailing or publishing the notice of
removal and storage provided for by this subchapter, the motor vehicle shall
remain unclaimed, the city shall apply to the state’s Department of Revenue for
a salvage title for any salvage or junk vehicle. If a vehicle is not a salvage
or junk vehicle, the city shall apply for a certificate of title from the
Department of Revenue. After the granting of such certificate, the title to
such motor vehicle shall be vested in the city, and such motor vehicle may be
disposed of in any manner as may be provided by the City Council. The proceeds
of any such disposal shall first be applied to the costs incurred in the
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § L-3-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 32-30-12.1, 32-30-15, 32-36-8, 32-
36-9 and 32-36-11
§ 92.28 BALANCE OF SALE PROCEEDS; UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   If the balance of the proceeds of any such disposal is greater than $50,
such balance shall be declared unclaimed property and turned over to the State
Treasurer, as set forth in SDCL Ch. 43-41B, Unclaimed Property.
(Prior Code, § L-3-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 43-41B-18
§ 92.29 COVER REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of private property to have an
uncovered motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adopted or designed
for operation on drag strips or raceways, or an uncovered vehicle retained on
private property for antique collection purposes, all as defined by §
92.16 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § L-3-16) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 9-29-13
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §§
92.15 through
92.29 of this chapter shall, in addition to those penalties contained in this
chapter, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of §§
92.15 through
92.29 or regulation promulgated thereunder shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § L-3-17)
(Ord. 968, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Authority of city to regulate
   
93.04   Police powers to enforce
   
93.05   Exceptions
General Regulations and Restrictions
   
93.20   Littering
   
93.21   Collection, conveyance, storage and disposal
   
93.22   Storage of junk, refuse, solid waste or rubble
   
93.23   Storage of garbage
   
93.24   Accumulating garbage or trash
   
93.25   Accumulating dead animals
   
93.26   Material used for land stabilization or landfill
Garbage and Waste Removal
   
93.40   Location of garbage containers
   
93.41   Using another’s garbage container prohibited
   
93.42   Disposal of garbage for profit
   
93.43   Garbage collection vehicle requirements generally
   
93.44   Noncommercial hauling requirements
   
93.45   Dumping or depositing unlawfully
   
93.46   Disposing of flammable materials
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish rules and regulations regarding
the collection, conveyance, storage and disposal of junk, refuse, solid waste
and rubble within the city to ensure the health, welfare and safety of the
citizens of the city and to aid in the suppression of sickness and disease.
(Prior Code, § L-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-10
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Any structure, public or private, that is adapted for
occupancy, for transaction of business, for rendering professional services,
for amusement or the display, sale or storage of goods, wares or merchandise,
or for the performance of work or labor, including, but not limited in its
application to, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, grain elevators,
abattoirs, warehouses, workshops, factories and all out-buildings, sheds, barns
and other structures and premises used for business purposes.
   DUMP. To throw, drop, cast, deposit or discard any garbage in any location
or place other than the Pierre Municipal Landfill or any other place designated
by the City Council.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen waste, which is an accumulation of animal and vegetable
matter that attends the preparation, cooking and eating of foods.
   GARBAGE CONTAINER. Any can, barrel, secured bag or other receptacle designed
for the purpose of storing garbage.
   JUNK. Wooden, paper, fibrous, metallic, plastic, crockery, rubber, including
tires, and auto batteries or glass materials of nominal value, unless
segregated and intended for recycling.
   OCCUPANT. An individual, partnership, corporation or other entity that has
the use of the building or real estate, either residential or commercial, or a
part or portion thereof, whether the actual owner, tenant or subtenant. In the
case of a vacant building, residential or commercial, or any vacant portion of
the building or real estate, the owner, agent or custodian shall have the
responsibility of an OCCUPANT of said property.
   OWNER. The actual OWNER OF RECORD of the building or real estate, including
an individual, partnership, corporation or other entity. In cases of buildings
or real estate leased under an agreement that the lessee is responsible for
maintenance and repairs, the lessee in such cases will be considered the OWNER
for the purpose of this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity,
whether public or private.
   PREMISES. Any real property or any structure contained thereon.
   REFUSE or SOLID WASTE. Cans, bottles, paper, litter and other waste
materials ordinarily originating in a household or business building, excluding
yard waste, tree limbs, industrial byproducts, building materials other than as
approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, ashes, dirt,
concrete, asphalt, highly flammable or explosive materials, sewage and body
wastes.
   RUBBLE. Broken, bent, charred, scrap or pulverized building materials
incapable of use for the purposes for which originally intended.
   STORE, STORING or STORAGE. The placing of materials or substances defined in
this chapter, other than garbage, with the intention of moving or removing the
same within 14 days.
   VACANT BUILDING. Any unoccupied structure, public or private.
   YARD WASTE. Any organic materials, other than garbage, that can be
composted, and shall be limited to excised limbs, roots, grass clippings,
leaves and flower and vegetable garden waste.
(Prior Code, § L-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
§ 93.03 AUTHORITY OF CITY TO REGULATE.
   The city shall have the power to regulate the conveyance, collection,
disposal and handling of garbage and other waste materials.
(Prior Code, § L-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
§ 93.04 POLICE POWERS TO ENFORCE.
   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee is hereby authorized to
exercise the police powers of this city for the sole purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § L-1-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
§ 93.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to junk stored or contained in §
159.381 or as otherwise authorized in an industrial-zoned area with the
required proper enclosure.
(Prior Code, § L-1-20)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
GENERAL REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 93.20 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discard, throw, drop, cast or deposit
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, yard or premises, public or private, any
garbage of any kind, cans, paper, trash, paper containers, bottles, refuse or
any other form of litter or waste matter.
(Prior Code, § L-1-15) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
§ 93.21 COLLECTION, CONVEYANCE, STORAGE AND DISPOSAL.
   All garbage, rubble and junk shall be collected, conveyed, stored and
disposed of in accordance with city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § L-1-4) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
§ 93.22 STORAGE OF JUNK, REFUSE, SOLID WASTE OR RUBBLE.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, leave, deposit or permit the
accumulation of junk, refuse, solid waste or rubble in any building or upon any
premises visible to or offensive to the public within the city for a period of
more than eight consecutive days. Any stored refuse or solid waste, rubble or
junk shall be enclosed in a container and covered, impervious or inaccessible
to insects, animals or humans, during the period of time it is stored.
(Prior Code, § L-1-5) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-10
§ 93.23 STORAGE OF GARBAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, leave, deposit or permit the
accumulation of garbage in any building or upon any premises visible to or
offensive to the public within the city for a period of more than eight
consecutive days. Any stored garbage shall be enclosed in a container and
covered, impervious or inaccessible to insects, animals or humans, during that
period of time it is stored.
(Prior Code, § L-1-6) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-10
§ 93.24 ACCUMULATING GARBAGE OR TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or occupant of any lot, yard,
place, building, residence or premises of any kind to allow or permit another
to leave, deposit or place slop, decaying animal matter, garbage, litter,
discarded metal, rubble, refuse, solid waste or other substances in or upon any
yard, place, building, residence or premises, or in or upon any sidewalk or
alley, for a period of more than eight consecutive days. Any occupant
permitting the storage of any substance described in this chapter on their
property shall require the same be enclosed in accordance with §§
93.22 and
93.23 of this chapter. This section may not be construed to permit the blockage
of any public way, alley or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § L-1-12) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
§ 93.25 ACCUMULATING DEAD ANIMALS.
   No person may allow the carcasses of cattle, horses, sheep, pigs or similar-
sized animals to remain exposed to the atmosphere for more than five
consecutive days when the average temperature exceeds 32°F.
(Prior Code, § L-1-13) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
§ 93.26 MATERIAL USED FOR LAND STABILIZATION OR LANDFILL.
   Concrete, brick, block, tile and other like material, excluding asphalt base
materials, may be used as a landfill or land stabilizer in conjunction with §§
159.115 through
159.122, provided that written approval by the Director of Public Works or his
or her designee is issued prior to dumping.
(Prior Code, § L-1-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-10
GARBAGE AND WASTE REMOVAL
§ 93.40 LOCATION OF GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   Only on the days of garbage collection may an owner or occupant place
containers, of 100 gallons or less, on a public easement as may be convenient
for the garbage collectors or haulers. On days not designated for garbage
collection, containers shall not be placed or allowed to remain along the
street or alley line but must be placed on the property in a manner not
conspicuous to passers-by.
(Prior Code, § L-1-7) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-10
§ 93.41 USING ANOTHER’S GARBAGE CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or discard garbage, refuse,
solid waste, yard waste, rubble or junk in the garbage container of another
without authorization from the owner of such garbage container. This provision
does not prevent the incidental use of public garbage containers by the public.
(Prior Code, § L-1-16) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
§ 93.42 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE FOR PROFIT.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall collect, transport or dispose of
garbage, solid waste or yard waste for profit within the city limits without
first procuring a garbage collection license approved by the City Council. No
such license shall be granted except upon proof of insurance and payment to the
city the fees prescribed by ordinances establishing various license fees. The
garbage collection license shall be valid from the date of issue to December 31
of the same calendar year. When applying for a license, the applicant must show
proof of vehicle approval pursuant to §
93.43 of this chapter. Application for license shall be on forms provided by
the City Finance Officer. The license may be revoked at any time by the City
Council upon the licensee’s failure to comply with the provisions of city
ordinances or state laws.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall be required to be licensed for
the purpose of hauling garbage, yard waste, junk, rubble or refuse from his or
her own premises.
(Prior Code, § L-1-9) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-10
§ 93.43 GARBAGE COLLECTION VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   Any vehicle used for commercial collection, conveyance or hauling of garbage
shall be equipped sufficiently to prevent the escape of the contents thereof.
All wet garbage, or materials subject to rot, decay or putrefaction, or
materials or liquids emitting strong or noxious odors, shall be collected and
hauled in a vehicle which has been approved by the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § L-1-10) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-11
§ 93.44 NONCOMMERCIAL HAULING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any vehicle, trailer or wagon used for noncommercial hauling of garbage,
yard waste, rubble, junk or solid waste shall be equipped and covered to ensure
no spillage may occur on the streets or on public rights-of-way to the point of
disposal.
(Prior Code, § L-1-11) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
§ 93.45 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING UNLAWFULLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump or deposit,
or cause to be dumped or deposited, any garbage, solid waste, rubble or junk in
any other place, public or private, other than at the Pierre Municipal Landfill
site or in any other place designated by the City Council or its designee.
(Prior Code, § L-1-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
§ 93.46 DISPOSING OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS.
   Highly flammable or explosive materials, including petroleum products, shall
not be placed in containers for regular collection or disposal, but shall be
disposed of as required by state statute or regulation or as directed by the
city at the expense of the owner or possessor thereof.
(Prior Code, § L-1-17) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Individuals, persons, firms or corporations who violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as set
forth in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of this chapter or regulation promulgated thereunder shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § L-1-19)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-10 and 9-32-11
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fireworks and the Like
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Discharge of fireworks
   
94.03   Possession and sale of certain fireworks prohibited
   
94.04   Possession, sale and discharge of sky lanterns
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Explosive or combustible materials storage requirements, see
Ch. 150
   Fire Code adopted, see
Ch. 150
   Fireworks sales, see
Ch. 114
FIREWORKS AND THE LIKE
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter shall establish rules regarding the sale and discharge of
fireworks within the city.
(Prior Code, § P-4-1) (Ord. 845, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-1, 9-33-4 and 9-33-4.1
§ 94.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   (1)   Fireworks as described in SDCL § 34-37-5, except prohibited
fireworks listed in §
94.03, may be discharged within the city limits between the hours of 9:00 a.m.,
Central Time, and 10:30 p.m., Central Time, from June 29 through July 2 and on
July 5.
      (2)   Fireworks as described in SDCL § 34-37-5, except fireworks commonly
known as bottle rockets, may be discharged within the city limits between the
hours of 9:00 a.m., Central Time, and 12:00 a.m. (midnight), Central Time, on
July 3 and July 4.
   (B)   (1)   Fireworks as listed in division (B)(3) below may be discharged
within the city limits between the hours of 5:00 p.m., Central Time, and 8:00
p.m., Central Time, on December 29 and December 30.
      (2)   Fireworks as listed in division (B)(3) below may be discharged
within the city limits between the hours of 5:00 p.m., Central Time, and 12:00
a.m. (midnight), Central Time, on December 31 and between the hours of 12:00
a.m. (midnight), Central Time, and 1:00 a.m., Central Time, on January 1.
      (3)   Fireworks permitted to be discharged during the hours listed in
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above on December 29 through January 1 are limited
to the following: fountains, cakes and artillery shells.
   (C)   City Council may grant a permit for special event displays as
described in SDCL § 34-37-13.
(Prior Code, § P-4-3.6) (Ord. 899, passed - -; Ord. 943, passed - -; Ord. 944,
passed - -; Ord. 1008, passed - -; Ord. 1037, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-33-1 and 34-37-16.1
§ 94.03 POSSESSION AND SALE OF CERTAIN FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall possess with
intention to discharge or offer for retail sale within the city or its
jurisdictional boundaries fireworks commonly known as “bottle rockets” that
have an overall length less than 14 inches and a rocket motor length less than
two inches.
   (B)   Fireworks permitted to be offered for retail sale during the December
29 through January 1 time frame are limited to the following: fountains, cakes
and artillery shells.
(Prior Code, § P-4-3.4) (Ord. 944, passed - -; Ord. 1008, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-33-1
§ 94.04 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISCHARGE OF SKY LANTERNS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall possess
with the intention to release or offer for retail sale “sky lanterns” within
the city or within its jurisdictional boundaries.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SKY LANTERNS are unmanned airborne lanterns, typically made of paper,
with a light frame containing a candle, a fuel cell composed of waxy flammable
material or other open flame which serves as a heat source to heat the air
inside the lantern to cause it to lift into the air. Sky candles, fire
balloons, Chinese lanterns and airborne paper lanterns are considered SKY
LANTERNS.
(Prior Code, § P-4-4.1) (Ord. 1008, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-33-1
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   A person or persons in violation of §§
94.02 or
94.03 of this chapter shall be fined in accordance with the following table.
 
Violation                               Fine
Person or persons possessing or         $10 per prohibited item found in their
discharging prohibited fireworks        possession or found to have been
                                        discharged
                                        $1,000 per day the licensed person,
Persons, persons or entities who are    persons or entity possesses the
licensed to sell fireworks that are     prohibited fireworks and immediate loss
found to be in possession of prohibited of license to sell fireworks in the
fireworks                               city for a period of 1 year from the
                                        date of violation
 
(Prior Code, § P-4-3.7)
   (C)   A person or persons in violation of §
94.04 of this chapter shall be fined in accordance with the following table.
 
Violation                               Fine
Person or persons possessing or         $10 per prohibited item found in their
discharging prohibited sky lanterns     possession or found to have been
                                        discharged
                                        $1,000 per day the licensed person,
Person, persons or entities who are     persons or entity possesses the
licensed to sell fireworks that are     prohibited sky lanterns and immediate
found to be in possession of prohibited loss of license to sell fireworks in
sky lanterns                            the city for a period of 1 year from
                                        the date of violation
 
(Prior Code, § P-4-4.2)
(Ord. 1008, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-33-1
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS AND FEES
      
111.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
112.   ALCOHOL
      
113.   CANNABIS
      
114.   FIREWORKS PERMITTING AND SALES
      
115.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS AND FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   License or permit required before work, activity begins
   
110.04   Special sales requiring licenses and permits
   
110.05   Contents of license and permit
   
110.06   Duties of licensees and permittees
License and Permit Application, Fees and Conditions
   
110.20   Qualifications of applicants
   
110.21   License and permit application requirements
   
110.22   Full-service restaurant on-sale licenses; specific requirements
   
110.23   On-sale retail liquor licenses; specific requirements
   
110.24   Off-sale package liquor licenses; specific requirements
   
110.25   License and permit fees
   
110.26   Determining license and permit fees
   
110.27   Receipt issuance
   
110.28   Non-approval of license and permit
   
110.29   Duplicate licenses and permits
   
110.30   Supplemental licenses and permits
   
110.31   License and permit renewal
   
110.32   Transferring licenses and permits
Enforcement
   
110.45   Inspections
   
110.46   Provisional orders upon violation; modifications
   
110.47   Final orders
   
110.48   Summary action
   
110.49   Right of review or appeal
   
110.50   Liability of violator
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to establish rules and regulations
regarding the issuance, transfer, enforcement and fees charged for the
licensing of persons and businesses conducting business within the city.
(Prior Code, § S-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, words in the singular member include the plural number and the word
SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BAR. Any permanently installed counter within the restaurant area from
which alcoholic beverages are regularly served to customers by a person who is
tending bar or drawing or mixing alcoholic beverages.
      BUSINESS. All kinds of vocations, occupations, professions, enterprises
and establishments and all other kinds of activities and matters, together with
all devices, machines, vehicles and appurtenances used therein, any of which
are conducted for private profit or benefit, either directly or indirectly, on
any premises in this city or anywhere else within its jurisdiction.
      CITY. The City of Fort Pierre, South Dakota.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Fort Pierre.
      CITY LICENSE OFFICER. The City Finance Officer or his or her designee.
      FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT. Any restaurant at which a waiter or waitress
delivers food and drink offered from a printed food menu to patrons at tables,
booths or the bar. Any restaurant that only serves fry orders or food and
victuals such as sandwiches, hamburgers or salads is not a FULL- SERVICE
RESTAURANT.
      INSIGNIA. Any tag, plate, badge, emblem, sticker or any other kind of
device that may be required for any use in connection with any license or
permit.
      LICENSE or LICENSEE. As used generally herein, shall include respectively
the words PERMIT or PERMITTEE or the holder, for any use or period of time, of
any similar privilege, wherever relevant to any provision of this chapter or
other law or ordinance.
      PERSON. Individual natural persons, partnerships, joint adventures,
societies, associations, clubs, trustees, trusts or corporations or any
officers, agents, employees, factors or any kind of personal representatives of
any thereof, in any capacity, acting either for himself or herself, or for any
other person, under either personal appointment or pursuant to law.
      PREMISES. All lands, structures and places and the equipment and
appurtenances connected or used therewith in any business, and any personal
property which is either affixed to or is otherwise used in connection with any
such business conducted on such PREMISES.
      RESTAURANT. Any area in a building maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where individually priced meals are prepared and served
primarily for consumption in such area and where not more than 40% of the gross
revenue of the restaurant is derived from the sale of alcohol or alcoholic
beverages. The RESTAURANT shall have a dining room or rooms, a kitchen and the
number and kinds of employees necessary for the preparing, cooking and serving
of meals.
(Prior Code, § S-1-1.1) (Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 986, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.03 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED BEFORE WORK, ACTIVITY BEGINS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person, either directly or
indirectly, to conduct any business or nonprofit enterprise, or to use in
connection therewith any vehicle, premises, machine or device, in whole or in
part, for which a license or permit is required by any law or ordinance of this
city without a license or permit therefor being first procured and kept in
effect at all such times as required by this chapter or other law or ordinance
of this city.
   (B)   Plumbing contractors. Only plumbing contractors who are first licensed
by the city may do the work of plumbing within the city. Said contractor shall
be responsible for each person or persons working under his or her supervision.
The City Council is hereby authorized to examine such applicants upon proof
that he or she is licensed by the state and issue a license to the same. The
license shall be valid from the day of issuance thereof to December 31 of the
same calendar year.
   (C)   Electrical contractors and Class B electricians. All electrical
contractors and Class B electricians doing work within the city shall be
licensed by the city and shall be responsible for each person or persons
working under his or her supervision; the City Council is hereby authorized to
examine such applications upon proof that he or she is licensed by the state
and issue a license to the same. The license shall be valid from the day of
issuance thereof to December 31 of the same calendar year. Persons addressed in
SDCL § 36-16-16 are hereby exempt from this chapter.
   (D)   Refuse disposal for hire. No person, firm, partnership or corporation
shall collect, transport or dispose of refuse for hire within the city without
a license issued by the City Council and payment of a fee as stated in §
110.25 of this chapter. The license shall be valid from the day of issuance
thereof to December 31 of the same calendar year.
   (E)   Video lottery machines. There is hereby imposed on any person who is
licensed pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-2(4), (13) or (16), and who is issued a video
lottery establishment license pursuant to SDCL § 42-7A-41, a $50 annual license
fee for each video lottery machine licensed to the premises for the privilege
of locating video lottery machines on the licensed premises. This fee is in
addition to the fees imposed under SDCL §§ 35-4-2 and 42-7A-41 and shall be
paid at the same time and in the same manner as the fee imposed in SDCL § 35-4-
2. This fee shall apply to all 1993 licenses and to each license year
thereafter.
   (F)   Transportation of buildings. No person, firm, partnership or
corporation shall transport any type of building for hire within the city
without a license issued by the city after completion of an application and
compliance with the following:
      (1)   Payment of fee as stated in §
110.25 of this chapter;
      (2)   If more than 500 in total square feet, provide proof of workers’
compensation and employer’s liability insurance at statutory minimum limits and
comprehensive general liability and comprehensive automobile liability
insurance coverage with a minimum limit of $1,000,000, signed by an insurance
carrier licensed to do business in the state. The designated path of travel of
the building, along with the date and time, shall be approved by the Director
of Public Works; and
      (3)   If more than 1,500 in total square feet in floor space, considering
all floors, the mover shall provide and maintain a performance bond or letter
of credit in favor of the city in the amount of $25,000 throughout the term of
the license. The form of the performance bond or letter of credit shall be
approved by the city prior to issuance of the license, and said letter of
credit shall provide that the city may draw upon it at any time as provided
herein without approval of any other party. The performance bond or letter of
credit shall be drawn upon by the city when, in the discretion of the city, the
licensee has damaged public property of the city and fails to repair the
damages or to compensate the city for any suffered damages within ten days of
notice.
   (G)   Travel parks. No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall
operate a travel park within the city or the extraterritorial limits of the
city without first the completion of an application and compliance with Ch. 155
of this code. Upon determination that the applicant and the travel park are in
full compliance with the municipal ordinances, a license to operate a travel
park shall be issued. The license shall be valid from the day of issuance
thereof to December 31 of the same calendar year.
(Prior Code, § S-1-2) (Ord. 893, passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-11, 9-34-1, 9-34-12, 35-4-103, 36-16-16
and 36-25-17 and SDCL Ch. 36-25
§ 110.04 SPECIAL SALES REQUIRING LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Generally. This chapter shall apply to all business in the nature of
special sales for which a license or permit is required by any law or ordinance
of this city. It shall be unlawful for any person, either directly or
indirectly, to conduct any such sale except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   One act constitutes doing business. For the purposes of this chapter,
any person shall be deemed to be in business or engaging in an enterprise, and
thus subject to the requirements of §§
110.03 and
110.04 of this chapter, when he or she does one act of:
      (1)   Selling any goods or services;
      (2)   Soliciting business or offering goods or services for sale or hire;
or
      (3)   Acquiring or using any vehicle or any premises in the city for
business purposes.
   (C)   Agents responsible for obtaining license or permit. The agents or
other representatives of nonresidents who are doing business in this city shall
be personally responsible for the compliance of their principals and of the
business they represent with this chapter.
   (D)   Separate license or permit for branch establishments; rental real
property.
      (1)   A license or permit shall be obtained in the manner prescribed
herein for each branch establishment or location of the business engaged in as
if each such branch establishment or location were a separate business.
Warehouses and distributing plants used in connection with and incidental to a
business licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to
be separate places of business or branch establishments.
      (2)   Each rental real property shall be deemed a branch establishment or
separate place of business for the purposes of this chapter when there is a
representative of the owner or the owner’s agent on the premises who is
authorized to transact business for such owner or owner’s agent, or when there
is a regular employee of the owner or of the owner’s agent working on the
premises.
   (E)   Joint license or permit . A person engaged in two or more businesses
at the same location shall not be required to obtain separate licenses or
permits for conducting each of such businesses but, when eligible, shall be
issued one license or permit, which shall specify on its face all such
businesses.
   (F)   No license or permit required for mere delivery. No license or permit
shall be required of any person for any mere delivery in the city of any
property purchased or acquired in good faith from such person at his or her
regular place of business outside the city where no intent by such person is
shown to exist to evade the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Special permits to nonprofit enterprise.
      (1)   The City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall issue special
permits, without the payment of any license or permit fees or other charges
therefor, to any person or organization for the conduct or operation of a
nonprofit enterprise, either regularly or temporarily, when he or she finds
that the applicant operates without private profit for a public, charitable,
educational, literary, fraternal or religious purpose.
      (2)   An applicant for a special permit shall submit an application
therefor to the city upon forms prescribed by the city and shall furnish such
additional information and make such affidavits as the city shall require.
      (3)   A person or organization operating under a special permit shall
operate his or her nonprofit enterprise in compliance with this chapter and all
other applicable rules and regulations, except as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § S-1-2) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.05 CONTENTS OF LICENSE AND PERMIT.
   Each license or permit issued hereunder shall state upon its face the
following:
   (A)   The name of the licensee or permittee and any other name under which
such business is to be conducted;
   (B)   A description of the type of business and address of each business so
licensed;
   (C)   The amount of license or permit fee therefor;
   (D)   The dates of issuance and expiration thereof; and
   (E)   Such other information as the City Finance Officer or his or her
designee shall determine.
(Prior Code, § S-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.06 DUTIES OF LICENSEES AND PERMITTEES.
   (A)   General standards of conduct. Every licensee or permittee under this
chapter shall:
      (1)   Permit inspection. Permit all reasonable inspections of his or her
business and examinations of his or her books by public authorities so
authorized by law;
      (2)   Comply with governing law. Ascertain and at all times comply with
all laws and regulations applicable to such licensed business;
      (3)   Operate properly. Avoid all forbidden, improper or unnecessary
practices or conditions that do or may affect the public health, morals or
welfare of the citizens of the city; and
      (4)   Cease business. Refrain from operating the licensed business on
premises after expiration of his or her license and during the period his or
her license is revoked or suspended.
   (B)   Display of license or permit and insignia. Every licensee or permittee
under this chapter shall:
      (1)   Premises.
         (a)   License or permit. Post and maintain such license or permit upon
the premises in a place where it may be seen at all times; and
         (b)   Insignia.
            1.   Affix any insignia delivered for use in connection with
business premises on the inside glass part of the window of said establishment
facing the public way, or on the inside glass part of the door opening on the
public way. Such insignia shall be placed and maintained so as to be plainly
visible from the public way; and
            2.   Where the licensed premises does not have a window facing a
public way at street level or a glass door opening upon the public way, such
insignia shall be affixed to the glass in the door, window or other prominent
place in the nearest proximity to the principal public entrance to such
establishment and shall be placed and maintained so as to be plainly visible
from such public entrance.
      (2)   Vehicles.
         (a)   Effect of this chapter. Purchase any such additional vehicle
license or permit required by this chapter or any other ordinance enacted by
the city regarding the use of such vehicle for business purposes. This section
shall not be abrogated, limited or affected by any other vehicle license or
permit that may be required by another governmental agency;
         (b)   Motor vehicles. Affix any insignia delivered for use in
connection with a licensed motor vehicle on the inside of the windshield of the
vehicle or as may be otherwise prescribed by the City Finance Officer or his or
her designee or by law; and
         (c)   Motorless vehicles. Affix any metal or other durable type of
insignia delivered for use in connection with a wagon or other vehicle not
operated by motor power securely on the outside of such vehicle.
      (3)   Persons. Carry such license on his or her person when he or she has
no licensed business premises;
      (4)   Machines. Affix any insignia delivered for use in connection
therewith upon the outside of any coin, vending or other business machine or
device so that it may be seen at all times;
      (5)   Inoperative licenses, special permits and insignia. Not allow any
license, special permit or insignia to remain posted, displayed or used after
the period for which it was issued has expired, or when it has been suspended
or revoked, or for any other reason become ineffective. The licensee shall
promptly return such inoperative license, special permit or insignia to the
City Finance Officer or his or her designee; and
      (6)   Unlawful possession. Not loan, sell, give or assign to any other
person, or allow any other person to use or display, or to destroy, damage or
remove, or to have in his or her possession, except as authorized by the City
Finance Officer or his or her designee or by law, any license, permit or
insignia which has been issued to said licensee.
   (C)   New location desired. A licensee shall have the right to change the
location of the licensed business, provided he or she shall:
      (1)   Approval of City Finance Officer or his or her designee. Obtain
written permission from the City Finance Officer or his or her designee for
such change of location; and
      (2)   Payment of fee. Pay a removal fee of $5 to the City Finance Officer
or his or her designee.
   (D)   Keep records. A licensee or permittee shall keep all records and books
necessary to the computation of his or her license or permit fee and to the
enforcement of this chapter. The City Finance Officer or his or her designee
shall make his or her own determination as to the financial statement for any
business where the licensee or permittee has failed to keep books and records
as required herein, subject to reasonable notice being given to the licensee or
permittee.
(Prior Code, § S-1-8) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
LICENSE AND PERMIT APPLICATION, FEES AND CONDITIONS
§ 110.20 QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANTS.
   (A)   The general standards herein set out relative to the qualifications of
every applicant for a city license or permit shall be considered and applied by
the City Finance Officer or his or her designee.
   (B)   The applicant shall:
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United States or a declarant therefor, as
authorized by law;
      (2)   Be of good moral character. In making such determination, the City
Finance Officer or his or her designee shall consider:
         (a)   Penal history. All convictions, the reasons therefore and the
demeanor of the applicant subsequent to his or her release;
         (b)   License or permit history. The license or permit history of the
applicant; whether such person, in previously operating in this or another
state under a license or permit, has had such license or permit revoked or
suspended, the reasons therefor and the demeanor of the applicant subsequent to
such action; and
         (c)   General personal history. Such other facts relevant to the
general personal history of the applicant as he or she shall find necessary to
a fair determination of the eligibility of the applicant.
      (3)   Not be in default under the provisions of this chapter or indebted
or obligated in any manner to the city, except for current taxes; and
      (4)   Possess, or have pending, a valid sales and use tax license for
this state.
(Prior Code, § S-1-4) (Ord. 839, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.21 LICENSE AND PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every person required to procure a license or permit under the
provisions of any ordinance or law of the city shall submit an application for
such license or permit to the City Finance Officer or his or her designee.
   (B)   The application shall:
      (1)   Be a written statement upon forms provided by the City Finance
Officer or his or her designee. Such form shall include an affidavit, to be
sworn to by the applicant before a notary public of this state;
      (2)   Require the disclosure of all information necessary to comply with
§
110.20 of this chapter and of any other information which the City Finance
Officer or his or her designee shall find to be reasonably necessary to the
fair administration of this chapter;
      (3)   Be accompanied by the full amount of the fees chargeable for such
license or permit as set out in §
110.25 of this chapter;
      (4)   Be accompanied by the payment of an issuance fee in the amount of
$5; and
      (5)   The establishment of the fee schedule in §
110.25 of this chapter does not preclude the city, its officers or agents from
requiring other licenses or permits and payment of other fees.
(Prior Code, § S-1-5) (Ord. 839, passed - -; Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 889,
passed - -; Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 895, passed - -; Ord. 911, passed - -;
Ord. 986, passed - -; Ord. 1024, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.22 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT ON-SALE LICENSES; SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An applicant for an on-sale full-service restaurant license shall
provide documentation to the Finance Officer that the applicant meets all
requirements of state law for an on-sale full-service restaurant license.
   (B)   The renewal of an on-sale full-service restaurant license is
conditioned upon the applicant satisfying all state law requirements for
renewal.
   (C)   Each licensee who owns an on-sale license as of January 1, 2008, and
purchased or had the license transferred to such licensee at any time between
January 1, 2003, and January 1, 2008, shall provide to the Finance Officer the
information required by state law of a full-service restaurant on-sale license
by September 15, 2008.
   (D)   The City Council shall set the on-sale full-service restaurant license
fee within 90 days of adopting this section.
   (E)   Upon determining the fair market value of on-sale licenses, the city
shall adopt a resolution establishing the fee for full-service restaurant on-
sale liquor licenses at or above the fair market value, as required by SDCL Ch.
35-4.
   (F)   The city will maintain a registry of all on-sale liquor licenses,
which shall include full-service restaurant liquor licenses that are being
offered for sale, and will provide a copy of the registry to anyone who
requests a new on-sale full-service restaurant license. Prior to the issuance
of a new license, there must not be a full-service restaurant on-sale license
on the registry, or the applicant must submit an affidavit documenting that the
applicant is unable to purchase the on-sale license at fair market value and on
terms satisfactory to both the potential buyer and seller.
   (G)   Any existing full-service restaurant on-sale license holder who wishes
to sell his or her on-sale license at the fair market value established by the
City Council may register the on-sale license with the city.
(Prior Code, § S-1-5) (Ord. 839, passed - -; Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 889,
passed - -; Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 895, passed - -; Ord. 911, passed - -;
Ord. 986, passed - -; Ord. 1024, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.23 ON-SALE RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSES; SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   No on-sale license issued pursuant to SDCL Title 35 may be reissued to the
same licensee or the licensee’s transferee if the license has not been actively
used by the applicant during the two years preceding the date of the current
application. For purposes of this section, the term ACTIVELY USED means that
the licensed premises was open to the public during regular business hours for
the sale and consumption of distilled spirits for at least 60 days during the
two preceding years. However, the licensed premises is only required to be open
five days per year if it is open to the public during a special event that has
at least 25,000 visitors.
(Prior Code, § S-1-5) (Ord. 839, passed - -; Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 889,
passed - -; Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 895, passed - -; Ord. 911, passed - -;
Ord. 986, passed - -; Ord. 1024, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.24 OFF-SALE PACKAGE LIQUOR LICENSES; SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   No off-sale package liquor license issued pursuant to SDCL Title 35 may be
reissued to the same licensee or the licensee’s transferee if the license has
not been actively used by the applicant during the two years preceding the date
of the current application. For purposes of this section, the term ACTIVELY
USED means that the licensed premises was open to the public during regular
business hours for the sale of distilled spirits for at least 60 days during
the two preceding years. However, the licensed premises is only required to be
open five days per year if it is open to the public during a special event that
has at least 25,000 visitors.
(Prior Code, § S-1-5) (Ord. 839, passed - -; Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 889,
passed - -; Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 895, passed - -; Ord. 911, passed - -;
Ord. 986, passed - -; Ord. 1024, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.25 LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES.
License Code Location Fee
License                                                          Code     Fee
                                                                 Location
Cat license                                                      §
                                                                 90.004
   Male or female                                                      $5
   Male or female, neutered or spayed, respectively                    $0
Dog license                                                      §
                                                                 90.004
   Male or female                                                      $50
   Male or female, neutered or spayed, respectively                    $10
                                                                 §
Dray license                                                     110.03   $50
                                                                 (D)
Duplicate license fee                                            §       $5
                                                                 110.29
                                                                 §
Electrical contractor license                                    110.03   $50
                                                                 (C)
Excavation license                                               §       $0
                                                                 151.087
Excessive noise license as established in Ch. 91                 §       $0
                                                                 91.02
Liquor license transfer                                          Set by   $150
                                                                 state
Mobile home park license                                         §       $50
                                                                 154.04
Mobile home park license transfer                                §       $50
                                                                 154.04
                                                                          $40
                                                                 §       annually
Off-premises billboard and off-premises sign license             153.06   per sign
                                                                          or
                                                                          billboard
Off-sale delivery                                                Set by   $150
                                                                 state
Off-sale package liquor                                          §       $500
                                                                 110.24
On-off sale malt beverage/SD farm wine                           Set by   $300
                                                                 state
                                                                          $1 per
                                                                          capita as
                                                                 Set by   stated in
On-sale convention center liquor initial application             state    the last
                                                                          preceding
                                                                          U.S.
                                                                          census
On-sale convention center liquor renewal                         Set by   $1,500
                                                                 state
On-sale full-service restaurant liquor annual application        §       $1,500
                                                                 110.22
On-sale full-service restaurant liquor initial application       §       $10,000
                                                                 110.22
On-sale retail liquor annual application fee                     §       $1,500
                                                                 110.23
                                                                          Set by
On-sale retail liquor initial application                        §       resolution
                                                                 110.23   by City
                                                                          Council
On-sale sale wine                                                Set by   $500
                                                                 state
                                                                 §
Plumbing contractor license                                      110.03   $50
                                                                 (B)
                                                                 §
Sales license for branch establishments                          110.04   $0
                                                                 (D)
                                                                 §
Travel park license, annual license                              110.03
                                                                 (G)
   Annual base fee                                                     $100
   Annual per-campsite fee                                             $10
   Initial startup and alterations plan review and inspection          $100
fee
   Reinspection fee (for non-compliance)                               $50
   Water recreation fee (pools, hot tubs and the like)                 $25
Permit and Other Fees Code Location Fee
Permit and Other Fees                                     Code     Fee
                                                          Location
Building permits                                          §
                                                          159.011
                                                                   Fees paid as required
                                                                   in accordance with
   Buildings and structures or alterations requiring a          the schedule
permit                                                             established by City
                                                                   Council and set out
                                                                   in resolution
Charitable solicitation permit                            §       $10, plus $0.25 for
                                                          111.15   each facsimile copy
Conditional use permit                                    Chapter  As set by resolution
                                                          159      435
Connecting to electrical system                           §       Fees as listed in §
                                                          51.015   51.015
Fireworks license                                         §       $1,000
                                                          114.02   As set by resolution
Flood development permit                                  §       $25
                                                          157.15
                                                          §
Garbage hauling permit/license                            110.03   $50
                                                          (D)
Liquor license transfer                                   Set by   $150
                                                          state
Mobile home or manufactured home placement permit         §       Fee schedule as set
                                                          154.07   by resolution
Off-sale delivery                                         Set by   $150
                                                          state
Off-sale package liquor                                   §       $500
                                                          110.24
On-off sale malt beverage/SD farm wine                    Set by   $300
                                                          state
                                                          Set by   $1 per capita as
On-sale convention center liquor initial application      state    stated in the last
                                                                   preceding U.S. census
On-sale convention center liquor renewal                  Set by   $1,500
                                                          state
On-sale full-service restaurant liquor annual application §       $1,500
                                                          110.22
On-sale full-service restaurant liquor initial            §       $10,000
application                                               110.22
On-sale retail liquor annual application fee              §       $1,500
                                                          110.23
On-sale retail liquor initial application                 §       Set by resolution by
                                                          110.23   City Council
On-sale sale wine                                         Set by   $500
                                                          state
Open containers in public, permit to allow                §       $0
                                                          132.01
Peddler permit
                                                          §
   Daily license - 3-day maximum                       30.05(B) $5 per day
                                                          (4)(a)
                                                          §
   Seven-day license                                   30.05(B) $25
                                                          (4)
Private wastewater disposal permit/inspection fee         §       $8
                                                          54.05
Special sale permit for nonprofit enterprises as          §
established in Ch. 110                                    110.04   $0
                                                          (G)
Special use permit                                        Chapter  $60
                                                          159
Tapping sanitary sewer system permit                      §       $250
                                                          54.07    As set by resolution
                                                          §       $200 plus cost of
Tapping water main permit                                 53.05    meter
                                                                   As set by resolution
Temporary camping permit fee, per unit per day            §       $5
                                                          155.09
Transportation of buildings (other than mobile home or    §
manufactured home)                                        110.03   $25
                                                          (F)
Variance                                                  Chapter  $35
                                                          159      As set by resolution
                                                          §
Video lottery machine fee                                 110.03   $50
                                                          (E)
 
(Prior Code, § S-1-5) (Ord. 839, passed - -; Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 889,
passed - -; Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 895, passed - -; Ord. 911, passed - -;
Ord. 986, passed - -; Ord. 1024, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.26 DETERMINING LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Generally. License or permit fees shall be in the amounts established
in the governing ordinance, and as further determined under this section.
   (B)   Unexpired previous license or permit. The following rules shall apply
to a person who, on the effective date of this chapter, holds a valid unexpired
license or permit from the city for any business required to be licensed
hereunder.
      (1)   Credit less than fee. In the event that the amount of the prorated
license or permit fee previously paid, based upon the unexpired portion of the
period for which such previous license or permit was issued, is less than the
amount of fee imposed hereunder, the applicant shall receive credit on the new
fee to the extent of such prorated amount.
      (2)   Credit exceeds fee. In the event that the prorated credit as
computed in division (B)(1) above is greater than the amount of fee imposed
hereunder, the amount of license or permit fee imposed by this chapter shall be
the amount of such prorated credit.
      (3)   Where applicant indebted. In no case where an applicant is indebted
in any manner to the city shall he or she be entitled to a credit or rebate.
   (C)   Adjustment of fee. The City Finance Officer or his or her designee
shall:
      (1)   Change in license or permit status. Require the payment of an
additional or higher license or permit fee, to be prorated for the balance of
the license or permit period, when a licensee or permittee placed himself or
herself in such status under this chapter by:
         (a)   Increasing the number of his or her employees;
         (b)   Augmenting the volume of business done by him or her;
         (c)   Expanding the size of business, plant or premises;
         (d)   Increasing the number or size of his or her vehicles; and
         (e)   Making any other lawful and material change of any kind in his
or her business.
      (2)   Prorated fee on voluntary retirement. Refund a proportion of the
amount of fee already paid, prorated for the balance of the license or permit
period, upon notification by a licensee or permittee of his or her voluntary
retirement from business; and
      (3)   Prorated fee for new business. Prorate for the balance of any
license or permit period the license or permit fee of any business commenced
after the beginning of the license or permit period.
   (D)   Rebate of fee.
      (1)   General prohibition. Except as herein provided, no rebate or refund
of any license or permit fee or part thereof shall be made by reason of the
non-use of such license or permit or by reason of a change of location or
business rendering the use of such license or permit ineffective.
      (2)   Authorized in special cases. The City Finance Officer or his or her
designee shall have the authority to refund a license or permit fee or prorated
portion thereof where:
         (a)   The license or permit fee was collected through an error;
         (b)   Some particular hardship might be involved;
         (c)   The licensee or permittee has been prevented from enjoying the
full license or permit privilege due to his or her death or incapacity to
engage in such business;
         (d)   The licensee or permittee has entered the armed services of the
United States through induction or enlistment and is thereby rendered unable to
conduct such business;
         (e)   The licensed business is forced to close before the expiration
of the license or permit period by reason of the taking over of the business or
licensed premises by the United Stated government, the state or the city; or
         (f)   The licensed business was destroyed by fire or other casualty
through no fault of the licensee or permittee.
      (3)   Basis of rebate. A rebate or refund as provided herein shall be
based upon the number of days in the license or permit period remaining after
the occurrence of the event relied upon for rebate.
(Prior Code, § S-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.27 RECEIPT ISSUANCE.
   Whenever a license or permit cannot be issued at the time the application
for the same is made, the City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall
issue a receipt to the applicant for the money paid in advance, subject to the
following condition: Such receipt shall not be construed as the approval of the
City Finance Officer or his or her designee for the issuance of a license or
permit, nor shall it entitle or authorize the applicant to open or maintain any
business contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § S-1-5) (Ord. 839, passed - -; Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 889,
passed - -; Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 895, passed - -; Ord. 911, passed - -;
Ord. 986, passed - -; Ord. 1024, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.28 NON-APPROVAL OF LICENSE AND PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall, upon
disapproving any application submitted under the provisions of this chapter,
refund all fees paid in advance to the applicant, provided the applicant is not
otherwise indebted to the city.
   (B)   When the issuance of a license or permit is denied and any action is
instituted by the applicant to compel its issuance, such applicant shall not
engage in the business for which the license or permit was refused unless a
license or permit be issued to him or her pursuant to a judgment ordering the
same.
(Prior Code, § S-1-5) (Ord. 839, passed - -; Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 889,
passed - -; Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 895, passed - -; Ord. 911, passed - -;
Ord. 986, passed - -; Ord. 1024, passed - -) Penalty, see § 110.00
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.29 DUPLICATE LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   A duplicate license or special permit shall be issued by the City Finance
Officer or his or her designee to replace any license or permit previously
issued which has been lost, stolen, defaced or destroyed, without any willful
conduct on the part of the licensee or permittee, upon the filing by the
licensee or permittee of an affidavit sworn to before a notary public of this
state attesting to such fact and the paying to the City Finance Officer or his
or her designee of a fee of $5.
(Prior Code, § S-1-5) (Ord. 839, passed - -; Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 889,
passed - -; Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 895, passed - -; Ord. 911, passed - -;
Ord. 986, passed - -; Ord. 1024, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.30 SUPPLEMENTAL LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   When a licensee or permittee places himself or herself in a new status as
provided in §
110.26(C) of this chapter, the City Finance Officer or his or her designee
shall issue a supplemental license or permit and such additional insignia as
may be required.
(Prior Code, § S-1-5) (Ord. 839, passed - -; Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 889,
passed - -; Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 895, passed - -; Ord. 911, passed - -;
Ord. 986, passed - -; Ord. 1024, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.31 LICENSE AND PERMIT RENEWAL.
   (A)   The applicant for the renewal of a license or permit shall submit an
application for such license or permit to the City Finance Officer or his or
her designee.
   (B)   The application shall:
      (1)   Be a written statement upon forms provided by the City Finance
Officer or his or her designee; such forms shall include an affidavit, to be
sworn to by the applicant before a notary public of this state; and
      (2)   Require the disclosure of such information concerning the
applicant’s demeanor and the conduct and operation of the applicant’s business
during the preceding licensing period as is reasonably necessary to the
determination by the City Finance Officer or his or her designee of the
applicant’s eligibility for a renewal license or permit and to a possible
adjustment of license or permit fee.
(Prior Code, § S-1-5) (Ord. 839, passed - -; Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 889,
passed - -; Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 895, passed - -; Ord. 911, passed - -;
Ord. 986, passed - -; Ord. 1024, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.32 TRANSFERRING LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   When authorized. A licensee or permittee hereunder shall have the
right to transfer his or her license or permit to another person, provided he
or she shall:
      (1)   Approval of City Finance Officer or his or her designee. Obtain
written permission from the City Finance Officer or his or her designee for
such transfer;
      (2)   Method of transfer. Execute the transfer in the form and under the
conditions required by law and as prescribed by the City Finance Officer or his
or her designee;
      (3)   Notification. Promptly report the completed act of transfer to the
City Finance Officer or his or her designee; and
      (4)   Surrender license or permit. Promptly surrender any license or
permit certificate and, when required by the City Finance Officer or his or her
designee, all licensing insignia.
   (B)   New license or permit issued. Upon the completion of a transfer of
license or permit in compliance with division (A) above, the City Finance
Officer or his or her designee shall issue a new license or permit and insignia
to the transferee for the unexpired term of the old license or permit.
      (1)   Effect of new license or permit. The new license or permit issued
hereunder shall authorize the transferee to engage in the same business at the
same location or at such other place as shall be approved by the City Finance
Officer or his or her designee and named in the new license or permit.
      (2)   Transfer fee. The City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall
collect a transfer fee of $5 from the transferee prior to the issuance of the
new license or permit.
(Prior Code, § S-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
ENFORCEMENT
§ 110.45 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Persons authorized. The following persons are authorized to conduct
inspections in the manner prescribed herein.
      (1)   The City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall make all
investigations reasonably necessary to the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   The City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall have the
authority to order the inspection of licensees or permits, their businesses and
premises by all city officials having duties to perform with reference to such
licensees, permittees or businesses.
      (3)   All local law enforcement officers shall inspect and examine
businesses located within their respective jurisdictions or beats to enforce
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Authority of inspectors. All persons authorized herein to inspect
licensees, permittees and businesses shall have the authority to enter, with or
without search warrant, at all reasonable times, the following premises:
      (1)   Those for which a license or permit is required;
      (2)   Those for which a license or permit was issued and which, at the
time of inspection, are operating under such license or permit; and
      (3)   Those for which the license or permit has been revoked or
suspended.
   (C)   Reports by inspectors. Persons inspecting licensees, permittees, their
businesses or premises as herein authorized shall report all violations of this
chapter or of other laws or ordinances to the City Finance Officer or his or
her designee and shall submit such other reports as the City Finance Officer or
his or her designee shall order.
(Prior Code, § S-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.46 PROVISIONAL ORDERS UPON VIOLATION; MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Provisional order. When an inspector has reported the violation of
this chapter or of any law or ordinance, the City Finance Officer or his or her
designee shall issue to the affected person a provisional order to comply.
      (1)   Nature of notice. The provisional order, and all other notices
issued in compliance with this section, shall be in writing, shall be
personally served and shall apprise the person affected of his or her specific
violations. In the absence of the person affected or his or her agent or
employee, a copy of such notice shall be affixed to some structure on the
premises. Depositing such notice in the United States mail shall constitute
service thereof.
      (2)   Period for compliance. The provisional order shall require
compliance within 15 days of personal service on the affected person.
      (3)   Hearing. Upon written application by the person affected before the
expiration of the 15- day period for compliance, the City Finance Officer or
his or her designee shall order a hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be
given to the affected person in the manner prescribed herein.
   (B)   Modifying authority of City Finance Officer or his or her designee.
Upon written application, or on his or her own motion, the City Finance Officer
or his or her designee shall have the authority, in a proper case, to extend
the time for compliance, to grant a new hearing date and to change, modify or
rescind any recommendation or order.
(Prior Code, § S-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.47 FINAL ORDERS.
   (A) Generally. Upon the failure or refusal of the violator to comply with
the provisional order or with any order made after hearing, the City Finance
Officer or his or her designee shall then declare and make the provisional
order final.
   (B)   Authority of City Finance Officer or his or her designee. The City
Finance Officer or his or her designee shall have the authority to suspend or
revoke licenses or permits upon making and declaring a provisional order final.
   (C)   Effect of revocation or suspension. Upon revocation or suspension, no
refund of any portion of the license or permit fee shall be made to the
licensee or permittee, and he or she shall immediately cease all business at
all places under such license or permit.
(Prior Code, § S-1-10) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.48 SUMMARY ACTION.
   When the conduct of any licensee, permittee, agent or employee is so harmful
to the public health, safety and general welfare so as to constitute a nuisance
and thus give rise to an emergency, the City Finance Officer or his or her
designee shall have the authority to summarily order the cessation of business
and the closure of the premises or to suspend or revoke the license or permit.
Unless waived in writing within five days after he or she has acted summarily,
the City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall conduct a special hearing
for such action in respect to the summary order as may be therein determined.
Notice of such hearing shall be given to the affected person in the manner
prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, § S-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.49 RIGHT OF REVIEW OR APPEAL.
   (A)   Right of review. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the City
Finance Officer or his or her designee shall have the right to a review by the
Mayor by filing notice with the Mayor within 48 hours following the effective
date of the action or decision complained of.
   (B)   Right of appeal. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Mayor
shall have the right to appeal to the City Council by filing a written appeal
with the Council within ten days following the effective date of the action or
decision complained of.
      (1)   Contents of appeal. Such appeal shall set out a copy of the order
or decision appealed from and shall include a statement of the facts relied
upon to avoid such order.
      (2)   Notification to City Finance Officer or his or her designee and
Mayor. At the time of filing any such appeal, a copy thereof shall be filed by
the appellant with the City Finance Officer or his or her designee and the
Mayor.
      (3)   Hearing. The City Council shall fix a time and place for hearing
the appeal and shall personally serve a written notice, as provided herein,
upon the appellant informing him or her thereof. The City Council shall also
give such notice to the City Finance Officer or his or her designee and the
Mayor, who shall be entitled to appear and defend such order.
      (4)   Effect of decision. The findings of the City Council shall be final
and conclusive and shall be personally served upon the appellant as required
herein.
(Prior Code, § S-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.50 LIABILITY OF VIOLATOR.
   (A)   Unpaid fee constitutes debt. The amount of any unpaid fee the payment
of which is required hereunder shall constitute a debt due the city.
   (B)   Action by City Attorney. The City Attorney shall, at the direction of
the City Finance Officer or his or her designee, institute a civil suit in the
name of the city to recover any such unpaid fee.
   (C)   Civil judgment no bar. No civil judgment or any act by the City
Attorney, the City Finance Officer or his or her designee or the violator shall
bar or prevent a criminal prosecution for each and every violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § S-1-10) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-1
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code in addition to such person’s license or permit being
revoked.
(Prior Code, § S-1-10.1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 9-34-1
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Fictitious name, fraudulent misrepresentation or misstatements
   
111.04   Investigation of affairs of persons soliciting for religious purposes
or exempt from requirements; publication of findings
Charitable Solicitations
   
111.15   Permit required; exemptions
   
111.16   Application for permit
   
111.17   Investigation of applications by Director
   
111.18   Standards for granting or denying permit applications
   
111.19   Fee for permit
   
111.20   Form and term of permit; granting not an endorsement by city
   
111.21   Permit nontransferable; return upon expiration
   
111.22   Agents and solicitors for permit holders
   
111.23   Written receipts required; exception
   
111.24   Hearing after application denied; exceptions; decision
   
111.25   Revocation of permit; hearing; decision
   
111.26   Notice of revocation or suspension to law enforcement authority
   
111.27   Books and records of permit holders
   
111.28   Report required from permit holders
Religious Solicitations
   
111.40   Certificate of registration required; application
   
111.41   Certificate issuance; term; renewal; content
   
111.42   Credentials for solicitors
   
111.43   Exception
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to establish rules and regulations
regarding the licensing of solicitors, door-to-door salespersons and peddlers
within the city.
(Prior Code, § S-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1 and 9-34-18
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. Means and includes the words patriotic, philanthropic, social
service, welfare, benevolent, educational, civic or fraternal, either actual or
purported.
   CONTRIBUTIONS. Means and includes the words alms, food, clothing, money,
subscription, property or donations under the guise of a loan of money or
property.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works or the official discharging the
duties of the Director of Public Works.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association
or joint stock association, church, religious sect, religious denomination,
society, organization or league, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee,
agent or other similar representative thereof.
   PROMOTER. Any person who promotes, manages, supervises or organizes, or
attempts to promote, manage, supervise or organize, a campaign of solicitation.
   RELIGIOUS or RELIGION. Shall not mean and include the word “charitable” as
herein defined, but shall be given their commonly accepted definitions.
   SOLICIT or SOLICITATION.
      (1)   The request, directly or indirectly, of money, credit, property,
financial assistance or other thing of value on the plea or representation that
such money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value will
be used for a charitable or religious purpose as those purposes are defined in
this chapter.
      (2)   These words shall also mean and include the following methods of
securing money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value
on the plea or representation that it will be used for a charitable or
religious purpose as herein defined:
         (a)   Any oral or written request;
         (b)   The distribution, circulation, mailing, posting or publishing of
any handbill, written advertisement or publication;
         (c)   The making of any announcement to the press, over the radio, by
telephone or by telegraph concerning an appeal, assemblage, athletic or sports
event, bazaar, benefit, campaign, contest, dance, drive, entertainment,
exhibition, exposition, party, performance, picnic, sale or social gathering
which the public is requested to patronize or to which the public is requested
to make a contribution for any charitable or religious purpose connected
therewith; or
         (d)   The sale of, offer of, or attempt to sell any advertisement,
advertising space, book, card, change, coupon, device, magazine, membership,
merchandise, subscription, ticket or other thing in connection with which any
appeal is made for any charitable or religious purpose, or where the name of
any charitable or religious person is used or referred to in any such appeal as
an inducement or reason for making any such sale, or when or where in
connection with any such sale, any statement is made that the whole or any part
of the proceeds from any such sale will go or be donated to any charitable or
religious purpose.
 
      (3)   SOLICITATION shall be deemed completed when made, whether or not
the person making the same receives any contribution or makes any sale referred
to in this section.
(Prior Code, § S-2-1.1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.03 FICTITIOUS NAME, FRAUDULENT MISREPRESENTATION OR MISSTATEMENTS.
   No person shall directly or indirectly solicit contributions for any purpose
by misrepresentation of his or her name, occupation, financial condition,
social condition or residence, and no person shall make or perpetrate any other
misstatement, deception or fraud in connection with any solicitation of any
contribution for any purpose in the city or in any application or report filed
under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § S-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.04 INVESTIGATION OF AFFAIRS OF PERSONS SOLICITING FOR RELIGIOUS PURPOSES
OR EXEMPT FROM REQUIREMENTS; PUBLICATION OF FINDINGS.
   The Director of Public Works is authorized to investigate the affairs of any
person soliciting for religious purposes under a certificate issued under §
111.40 if this chapter and the affairs of any person exempted from the
requirement of a permit under §
111.15 of this chapter, or exempted from the requirement of a certificate under
§
111.43 of this chapter, and make public his or her written findings in order
that the public may be fully informed as to the affairs of any of said persons.
Said persons shall make available to the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee all books, records or other information reasonably necessary to enable
the Director of Public Works or his or her designee to fully and fairly inform
the public of all facts necessary to a full understanding by the public of the
work and methods of operation of such persons; provided, however, that five
days before the public release of any findings under this chapter, the Director
of Public Works or his or her designee must first serve a copy of such findings
upon the person investigated and, at the time of the release of his or her
findings, he or she must release a copy of any written statement said person
may file with the Director of Public Works or his or her designee in
explanation, denial or confirmation of such findings.
(Prior Code, § S-2-17)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
§ 111.15 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   No person shall solicit contributions for any charitable purpose within the
city without a permit from the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
authorizing such solicitation; provided, however, that the provisions of this
subchapter shall not apply to any established person organized and operated
exclusively for religious or charitable purposes, and not operated for the
pecuniary profit of any person, if the solicitations by such established person
are conducted among the members thereof by other members or officers thereof
voluntarily and without enumeration for making such solicitations, or if the
solicitations are in the form of collections or contributions at the regular
assemblies or services of any such established person.
(Prior Code, § S-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.16 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a permit to solicit as provided by §
111.15 of this chapter shall be made to the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee upon forms provided by the city. Such application shall be sworn
to and filed with the Director of Public Works or his or her designee at least
15 days prior to the time at which the permit applied for shall become
effective; provided, however, that the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee may, for good cause shown, allow the filing of an application less
than 15 days prior to the effective date of the permit applied for.
   (B)   The application herein required shall contain the following
information or, in lieu thereof, a detailed statement of the reason or reasons
why such information cannot be furnished:
      (1)   The name and address or headquarters of the person applying for the
permit;
      (2)   If applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of the
applicant’s principal officers and managers and a copy of the resolution, if
any, authorizing such solicitation, certified to as a true and correct copy of
the original by the officer having charge of applicant’s records;
      (3)   The purpose for which such solicitation is to be made, the initial
amount of funds proposed to be raised thereby and the use or disposition to be
made of any receipts therefrom;
      (4)   A specific statement, supported by reasons and, if available,
figures, showing the need for the contributions to be solicited;
      (5)   The names and addresses of the person or persons by whom the
receipts of such solicitation shall be disbursed;
      (6)   The names and addresses of the person or persons who will be in
direct charge of conducting the solicitation and names of all promoters
connected or to be connected with the proposed solicitation;
      (7)   An outline of the method or methods to be used in conducting the
solicitation;
      (8)   The time when such solicitation shall be made, giving the preferred
dates for the beginning and ending of such solicitation;
      (9)   The estimated cost of the solicitation;
      (10)   The amount of any wages, fees, commissions, expenses or emoluments
to be expended or paid to any person in connection with such solicitation and
the names and addresses of all such persons;
      (11)   A financial statement for the last preceding fiscal year of any
funds collected for charitable purposes by the applicant, said statement giving
the amount of money so raised together with the cost of raising it and the
final distribution thereof;
      (12)   A full statement of the character and extent of the charitable
work being done by the applicant within the city;
      (13)   A statement that the actual cost of the solicitation will not
exceed 25% of the total amount to be raised;
      (14)   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted, it will not
be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the city or by any
department or officer thereof; and
      (15)   Such other information as may be reasonably required by the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee in order for him or her to
determine the kind and character of the proposed solicitation and whether such
solicitation is in the interest of and not harmful to the public welfare.
   (C)   If, while any application is pending, or during the term of any permit
granted thereon, there is any change in fact, policy or method that would alter
the information given in the application, the applicant shall notify the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee in writing thereof within 24
hours after such change.
(Prior Code, § S-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.17 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATIONS BY DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall examine all
applications filed under §
111.16 of this chapter and shall make or cause to be made such further
investigation of the application and the applicant as the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee shall deem necessary in order for him or her to
perform his or her duties under this chapter.
   (B)   Upon request by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee,
the applicant shall make available for inspection by the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee all of the applicant’s books, records and papers
at any reasonable time before the application is granted, during the time a
permit is in effect or after a permit has expired.
(Prior Code, § S-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.18 STANDARDS FOR GRANTING OR DENYING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall issue the
permit provided for in §
111.15 of this chapter whenever he or she shall find the following facts to
exist:
      (1)   That all of the statements made in the application are true;
      (2)   That the applicant has a good character and reputation for honesty
and integrity, or if the applicant is not an individual person, that every
member, managing officer or agent of the applicant has a good character or
reputation for honesty and integrity;
      (3)   That the control and supervision of the solicitation will be under
responsible and reliable persons;
      (4)   That the applicant has not engaged in any fraudulent transactions
or enterprise;
      (5)   That the solicitation will not be a fraud on the public;
      (6)   That the solicitation is prompted solely by a desire to finance the
charitable cause described in the application and will not be conducted
primarily for private profit; and
      (7)   That the cost of raising the funds will be reasonable. Any such
cost in excess of 25% of the amount collected shall be considered to be
unreasonable unless special facts are presented showing that peculiar reasons
make a cost higher than 25% reasonable in the particular case.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall file in his
or her office for public inspection, and shall serve upon the applicant by
registered mail, a written statement of his or her findings of facts and his or
her decision upon each application.
(Prior Code, § S-2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.19 FEE FOR PERMIT.
   Before a permit is issued, there shall be paid to the City Finance Office
the sum of $10 as a permit fee and the sum of $0.25 for each facsimile copy of
the permit that is desired.
(Prior Code, § S-2-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.20 FORM AND TERM OF PERMIT; GRANTING NOT AN ENDORSEMENT BY CITY.
   Permits issued under this chapter shall bear the name and address of the
person by whom the solicitation is to be made, the number of the permit, the
date issued, the dates within which the permit holder may solicit and a
statement that the permit does not constitute an endorsement by the city, any
of its departments, officers or employees. All permits must be signed by the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee. No permit may grant the right
to solicit longer than 90 days from its date, but the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee may extend any permit for not more than 90 additional
days upon a showing that unnecessary hardship would be created by a failure to
extend the original 90- day period for such additional days.
(Prior Code, § S-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.21 PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE; RETURN UPON EXPIRATION.
   Any permit issued under this chapter shall be nontransferable and shall be
returned to the Director of Public Works within two days of its date of
expiration together with all facsimile copies thereof.
(Prior Code, § S-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.22 AGENTS AND SOLICITORS FOR PERMIT HOLDERS.
   (A)   All persons to whom permits have been issued under this chapter shall
furnish proper credentials to their agents and solicitors for such
solicitation. Such credentials shall include the name of the permit holder, the
date, a statement describing said holder’s charitable activity, a description
of the purpose of the solicitation, the signature of the permit holder or of
the holder’s chief executive officer, the name, address, age, sex and signature
of the solicitor to whom such credentials are issued and the specific period of
time during which said solicitor is authorized to solicit on behalf of the
permit holder. A copy of such credentials must be filed with the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee at the time the application for a permit is
filed and must be approved by him or her as conforming to the requirements of
this chapter before such permit is issued. No person shall solicit under any
permit granted under this chapter without the credentials required by this
chapter and a facsimile copy of said permit in his or her possession. Said
credentials and said facsimile copy of the permit must be shown, upon request,
to all persons solicited and to any local law enforcement officer of the city.
   (B)   No agent or solicitor shall solicit contributions for any charitable
purpose for any person in the city unless such person has been granted a permit
under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § S-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.23 WRITTEN RECEIPTS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   Any person receiving money or anything having a value of $1 or more from any
contributor under a solicitation made pursuant to a permit granted under this
chapter shall give to the contributor a written receipt signed by the solicitor
showing plainly the name and permit number of the person under whose permit the
solicitation is conducted, the date and the amount received; provided, however,
that this chapter shall not apply to any contributions collected by means of a
closed box or receptacle used in solicitation with the written approval of the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee where it is impractical to
determine the amount of such contributions.
(Prior Code, § S-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.24 HEARING AFTER APPLICATION DENIED; EXCEPTIONS; DECISION.
   (A)   Within five days after receiving notification by registered mail that
his or her application for a permit to solicit under this chapter has been
denied, any applicant may file a written request for a public hearing on the
application before the Director of Public Works or his or her designee,
together with written exceptions to the findings of fact upon which the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee based his or her denial of the
application. Upon the filing of such a request, the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee shall fix a time and place for the hearing and shall notify
the applicant thereof.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held within five days after the request is filed.
At the hearing, the applicant may present evidence in support of his or her
application and exceptions. Any interested person may, in the discretion of the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee, be allowed to participate in
the hearing and present evidence in opposition to the application and
exceptions.
   (C)   Within ten days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee shall render a written report either
granting or denying the application for a permit. In this report, the Director
of Public Works or his or her designee shall state the facts upon which his or
her decision is based and his or her ruling upon any exceptions filed to his or
her original findings of fact upon the application. This report shall be filed
in the Public Works Department for public inspection, and a copy shall be
served by registered mail upon the applicant and all parties to the hearing.
(Prior Code, § S-2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.25 REVOCATION OF PERMIT; HEARING; DECISION.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be shown, or whenever the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee has knowledge, that any person to whom a permit has been
issued under this chapter has violated any of the provisions of this chapter,
or that any promoter, agent or solicitor of a permit holder has misrepresented
the purpose of the solicitation, the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee shall immediately suspend the permit and give the permit holder
written notice by registered mail, or by special delivery, of a hearing to be
held within two days of such suspension to determine whether or not the permit
should be revoked. This notice must contain a statement of the facts upon which
the Director of Public Works or his or her designee has acted in suspending the
permit.
   (B)   At the hearing, the permit holder and any other interested person
shall have the right to present evidence as to the facts upon which the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee based the suspension of the
permit and any other facts which may aid the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee in determining whether this chapter has been violated and whether
the purpose of the solicitation has been misrepresented.
   (C)   (1)   If, after such hearing, the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee finds that the chapter has been violated and the purpose of the
solicitation has been misrepresented, he or she shall, within two days after
the hearing, file in his or her office for public inspection and serve upon the
permit holder, and all interested persons participating in the hearing, a
written statement of the facts upon which he or she bases such finding and
shall immediately revoke the permit.
      (2)   If, after such hearing, the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee finds that the chapter has not been violated and the purpose of the
solicitation has not been misrepresented, he or she shall, within two days
after the hearing, give to the permit holder a written statement canceling the
suspension of the permit and stating that no violation or misrepresentation was
found to have been committed.
(Prior Code, § S-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.26 NOTICE OF REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The proper law enforcement authority shall be notified forthwith by the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee of the suspension or revocation
of any permit issued under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § S-2-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.27 BOOKS AND RECORDS OF PERMIT HOLDERS.
   No person shall solicit any contributions for any charitable purpose without
maintaining a system of accounting whereby all donations to it and all
disbursements are entered upon the books or records of such person’s treasurer
or other financial officer.
(Prior Code, § S-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.28 REPORT REQUIRED FROM PERMIT HOLDERS.
   It shall be the duty of all persons issued permits under this chapter to
furnish to the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, within 30 days
after the solicitation has been completed, a detailed report and financial
statement showing the amount raised by the solicitation, the amount expended in
collecting such funds, including a detailed report of the wages, fees,
commissions and expenses paid to any person in connection with such
solicitation, and the disposition of the balance of the funds collected by the
solicitation. This report shall be available for public inspection at the
Public Works Department at any reasonable time; provided, however, that the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee may extend the time for the
filing of the report required by this section for an additional period of 30
days upon proof that the filing of the report within the time specified will
cause unnecessary hardship to the permit holder. The permit holder shall make
available to the Director of Public Works or his or her designee all books,
records and papers whereby the accuracy of the report required by this section
may be checked.
(Prior Code, § S-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
RELIGIOUS SOLICITATIONS
§ 111.40 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall solicit contributions for any religious purpose within
the city without a certificate from the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee. Application for a certificate shall be made to the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee upon forms provided by the city.
   (B)   Such application shall be sworn to or affirmed and shall contain the
following information or, in lieu thereof, a statement of the reason or reasons
why such information cannot be furnished:
      (1)   The name and address or headquarters of the person applying for the
permit;
      (2)   If applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of the
applicant’s principal officers and managers and a copy of the resolution, if
any, authorizing such solicitation, certified to as a true and correct copy of
the original by the officer having charge of applicant’s records;
      (3)   The purpose for which such solicitation is to be made, the total
amount of funds proposed to be raised thereby and the use or disposition to be
made of any receipts therefrom;
      (4)   A specific statement, supported by reasons and, if available,
figures, showing the need for the contributions to be solicited;
      (5)   The names and addresses of the person or persons by whom the
receipts of such solicitation shall be disbursed;
      (6)   The names and addresses of the person or persons who will be in
direct charge of conducting the solicitation and the names of all promoters
connected, or to be connected, with the proposed solicitation;
      (7)   An outline of the method or methods to be used in conducting the
solicitation;
      (8)   The time when such solicitation shall be made, giving the preferred
dates for the beginning and ending of such solicitation;
      (9)   The estimated cost of the solicitation;
      (10)   The amount of any wages, fees, commissions, expenses or emoluments
to be expended or paid to any person in connection with such solicitation and
the names and addresses of all such persons;
      (11)   A financial statement for the last preceding fiscal year of any
funds collected for religious purposes by the applicant, said statement giving
the amount of money so raised together with the cost of raising it and the
final distribution thereof;
      (12)   A full statement of the character and extent of the religious work
being done by the applicant within the city;
      (13)   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted, it will not
be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the city or by any
department or officer thereof; and
      (14)   Such other information as may be submitted to the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee in order for him or her to determine the
kind and character of the proposed solicitation.
   (C)   If, while any application is pending, or during the term of any
certificate granted thereon, there is any change in the application, then the
applicant shall notify the Director of Public Works or his or her designee in
writing thereof within 24 hours after such change.
(Prior Code, § S-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.41 CERTIFICATE ISSUANCE; TERM; RENEWAL; CONTENT.
   Upon receipt of such application, the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee shall forthwith issue the applicant a certificate of registration. The
certificate shall remain in force and effect for a period of six months after
the issuance thereof and shall be renewed upon the expiration of this period
upon the filing of a new application as provided for in this chapter.
Certificates of registration shall bear the name and address of the person by
whom the solicitation is to be made, the number of the certificate, the date
issued and a statement that the certificate does not constitute an endorsement
by the city, its departments or officers.
(Prior Code, § S-2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.42 CREDENTIALS FOR SOLICITORS.
   All persons to whom certificates of registration have been issued shall
furnish credentials to their agents and solicitors, such credentials to conform
to the requirements specified for credentials in §
111.22 of this chapter, and a copy of such credentials shall be filed with the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee at the time of the filing of
the application for a certificate. No person shall solicit for any religious
cause without having such credentials in his or her possession together with a
copy of the certificate of registration under which the solicitation is being
conducted, and such person shall, upon demand, present these credentials and
this copy of the certificate to any person solicited or to any local law
enforcement officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § S-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
§ 111.43 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any established person
organized and operated exclusively for religious purposes, and not operated for
the pecuniary profit of any person, if the solicitations by such established
person are conducted among the members thereof by other members or officers
thereof, voluntarily and without remuneration for making such solicitations, or
if the solicitations are in the form of collections or contributions at the
regular assemblies or services of any such established person.
(Prior Code, § S-2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-34-1, 9-34-8 and 9-34-18
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOL
Section
   
112.01   Hours of sale
   
112.02   Alcoholic beverage licensee responsibility
   
112.03   Allowing minor to enter or remain in premises
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   On-off sale. No on-off sale licensee shall sell, serve or allow to be
consumed on the premises covered by the license alcoholic beverages between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., Mountain Time.
   (B)   Off-sale package. No off-sale licensee may sell, or allow to be sold,
alcoholic beverages between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., Central Time.
(Prior Code, § M-4-1) (Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 934, passed - -; Ord. 1020,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-7 and 35-4-81
§ 112.02 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The licensee of an alcoholic beverage retail establishment shall be
liable as a principal for any act of an employee or apparent agent in violation
of any provision of this chapter, or for failure to control the sale or
dispensation of alcoholic beverages effectively in accordance with this
chapter. This shall not preclude prosecution of the employee or agent, however,
nor require the prosecution of more than one individual.
   (B)   Where the license is held in a corporate name, the president or chief
executive officer shall be responsible for compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § M-4-3) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-7
§ 112.03 ALLOWING MINOR TO ENTER OR REMAIN IN PREMISES.
   (A)   No on-sale alcoholic beverage retail licensee shall permit any person
less than 21 years old to enter or occupy the licensed premises unless said
person is in the company of his or her parent, legal guardian or spouse over 21
years of age while on the premises. Under no circumstances may any person less
than 21 years of age loiter on the licensed premises.
   (B)   Convictions under the foregoing must be reported to the state’s
Department of Revenue within ten days unless falsified identification was used
to gain entry.
(Prior Code, § M-4-2) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-7 and 35-4-79
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of any section within this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of this chapter or regulation promulgated thereunder shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § M-4-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 113: CANNABIS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose and intent
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Hours of operation for dispensaries
   
113.04   Number of cannabis establishments permitted
   
113.05   License required
   
113.06   License application
   
113.07   Issuance of licenses
   
113.08   Expiration and renewal of licenses
   
113.09   Licenses not transferrable
   
113.10   Suspension of licenses
   
113.11   Revocation of licenses
   
113.12   Suspension and revocation process
   
113.13   Appeals
   
113.14   Liability for violations
   
113.15   Neutrality of city as to applicants
   
113.16   Compliance with other laws
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Cannabis zoning provisions and additional regulations, see
Ch. 159
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City Council enacts the following licensing ordinances in order to
ensure that cannabis establishments within the territorial jurisdiction of the
city operate in a manner which complies with state laws and regulations,
protects the health, safety and welfare of the general public, prevents
potential conflicts and issues arising from ownership and employees, recognizes
certain safety and security considerations and minimizes risk of unauthorized
use or access of cannabis by the general public.
(Prior Code, § S-5-1)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless an alternative definition is explicitly stated in this section,
this chapter utilizes the definitions for cannabis-related terms which are
defined by SDCL § 34-20G-1.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CANNABIS or MARIJUANA. All parts of any plant of the genus Cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of
MARIJUANA absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber
produced from the mature stalks of such plant or oil or cake made from the
seeds of such plant. The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L. and
any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives,
extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts and salts of isomers, whether
growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more
than three-tenths of 1% on a dry weight basis.
      CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL §
34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies or
sells cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
      CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies or
dispenses cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia or related supplies and
educational materials.
      CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis
testing facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility or a cannabis
dispensary.
      CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies or
sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
      CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils and tinctures.
      CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally
authorized to analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
      DEPARTMENT. The South Dakota Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § S-5-2)
§ 113.03 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR DISPENSARIES.
   No cannabis dispensary may operate between the hours of 7:00 p.m., Mountain
Standard Time, and 7:00 a.m., Mountain Standard Time, any day of the week.
(Prior Code, § S-5-14) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 NUMBER OF CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS PERMITTED.
   (A)   Not more than three cannabis cultivating facilities shall be allowed
to operate in the territorial jurisdiction of the city at any time. A cannabis
cultivation facility must exist in conjunction with a cannabis dispensary.
   (B)   Not more than three cannabis dispensaries shall be allowed to operate
in the territorial jurisdiction of the city at any time.
   (C)   Not more than three cannabis manufacturing facilities shall be allowed
to operate in the territorial jurisdiction of the city at any time. A cannabis
manufacturing facility must exist in conjunction with a cannabis dispensary.
   (D)   Zero cannabis testing facilities are allowed to operate in the
territorial jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § S-5-7) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the territorial
jurisdiction of the city without the appropriate valid and current cannabis
establishment license issued by the city pursuant to this chapter. A violation
of this provision is subject to the general penalty provision in §
113.99 of this chapter. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate
offense.   
   (B)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the territorial
jurisdiction of the city without the appropriate valid and current cannabis
establishment registration certificate issued by the Department pursuant to
rules promulgated under SDCL Ch. 34-20G. A violation of this provision is
subject to the general penalty provision in §
113.99 of this chapter. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § S-5-3) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a cannabis establishment license must be made on a
form provided by the city. No other application form will be considered.
   (B)   The applicant must submit the following:
      (1)   Application fee of $5,000. The city will reimburse $2,500 for
applicants who fail to obtain a registration certificate from the state’s
Department of Health; and   
      (2)   An application that will include, but is not limited to, the
following:   
         (a)   The legal name of the prospective cannabis establishment;
         (b)   The physical address of the prospective cannabis establishment
which meets the zoning requirements in Ch. 159 of this code as well as any
location requirements pursuant to SDCL Ch. 34-20G and the administrative rules
promulgated thereunder;
         (c)   The name, address and birth date of each principal officer,
owner and board member of the proposed cannabis establishment;
         (d)   A sworn statement that no principal officer, owner or board
member has been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years
in any jurisdiction;
         (e)   A copy of the state-issued medical cannabis establishment
license;
         (f)   A copy of a detailed business plan; and
         (g)   Any additional information requested by the city.
(Prior Code, § S-5-4)
§ 113.07 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The city will issue a license unless:   
      (1)   The applicant has made a false statement on the application or
submits false records or documentation;
      (2)   Any owner, principal officer or board member of the applicant is
under the age of 21 years;
      (3)   Any owner, principal officer or board member of the applicant has
been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years in any
jurisdiction;
      (4)   The proposed location does not meet the applicable zoning
requirements under Ch. 159 of this code;
      (5)   The proposed location does not meet all location requirements under
SDCL Ch. 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder;
      (6)   The license is to be used for a business prohibited by state or
local law, statute, rule, ordinance or regulation;
      (7)   Any owner, principal officer or board member of the applicant has
had a cannabis establishment license revoked by the city or a registration
certificate revoked by the state;
      (8)   An applicant, or an owner, principal officer or board member
thereof, is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines or penalties
assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to any cannabis
establishment; or
      (9)   The applicant will not be operating the business for which the
license would be issued.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a cannabis establishment license,
the city will reject the application if the limit on the number of cannabis
establishments has been reached.
   (C)   An application for a cannabis cultivating facility or a cannabis
manufacturing facility will only be accepted from a cannabis dispensary
applicant or license holder.
   (D)   When considering an application for a cannabis establishment license,
consideration may be given to the observations and results of any inspection of
the intended premises, the location and impact to the public that may result,
the manner in which the applicant has previously operated a cannabis
establishment or other business licensed by the city and history of compliance
with city ordinances and state law.
   (E)   If more applications are received than the number of licenses
available and all applicants are equally qualified for said license, the
license will be issued to the first qualified license application received.
Applications cannot be submitted until notification of available license has
been posted and documented.
   (F)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the cannabis establishment so that it may be easily read at any
time.
(Prior Code, § S-5-5) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Each license expires one year from the date of issuance or June 30,
whichever is sooner, and may be renewed only by making application as provided
in §
113.06 of this chapter. Application for renewal must be submitted at least 30
days before the expiration date. The license holder must continue to meet the
license requirements to be eligible for a renewal.
   (B)   The renewal fee is $5,000. The city will reimburse $2,500 for
applicants who fail to obtain a renewal of their registration certificate from
the Department.
   (C)   Failure to renew a license in accordance with this section may result
in additional fees. Upon expiration of the license, the city may order closure
of the cannabis establishment.
   (D)   If a license holder has not operated an establishment for which it
holds a license in the preceding 12 months, the license will not be renewed.
(Prior Code, § S-5-8) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   No cannabis establishment license holder may transfer the license to any
other person or entity, either with or without consideration, nor may a license
holder operate a cannabis establishment at any place other than the address
designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § S-5-13) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 SUSPENSION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   A license may be suspended if the license holder or an employee or
agent of the license holder:
      (1)   Violates or is otherwise not in compliance with any section of this
chapter;
      (2)   Consumes or smokes, or allows any person to consume or smoke,
cannabis on the premises of the cannabis establishment; or
      (3)   Knowingly dispenses or provides cannabis or cannabis products to an
individual or business to whom it is unlawful to provide cannabis or cannabis
products.
   (B)   A license may be suspended if the license holder has its Department-
issued registration certificate suspended, revoked or not renewed by the
Department or if the registration certificate is expired.
   (C)   A license may be suspended if the license holder creates or allows to
be created a public nuisance at the cannabis establishment.
(Prior Code, § S-5-9) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   A license may be revoked if the license is suspended under §
113.10 of this chapter and the cause for the suspension is not remedied.
   (B)   A license may be revoked if the license is subject to suspension under
§
113.10 of this chapter because of a violation outlined in that section and the
license has been previously suspended in the preceding 24 months.
   (C)   A license is subject to revocation if a license holder or employee of
a license holder:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of non-cannabis
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   Operated the cannabis establishment or the business of the cannabis
establishment for which a license is required under this chapter while the
license was suspended;
      (4)   Repeated violations of §
113.10 of this chapter;
      (5)   Operated a function of a cannabis establishment for which the
license holder was not licensed (such as a licensed cannabis cultivation
facility conducting cannabis testing functions without a cannabis testing
establishment license);
      (6)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer or board member
thereof, is delinquent in payment to the city, county or state for any taxes or
fees related to the cannabis establishment;
      (7)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer or board member
thereof, has been convicted of, or continues to employ an employee who has been
convicted of, a disqualifying felony offense as defined by SDCL Ch. 34-20G;
      (8)   The license holder has its Department-issued registration
certificate suspended, revoked or not renewed or the registration certificate
is expired;
      (9)   The license holder allows a public nuisance to continue after
notice from the city; or
      (10)   The cannabis dispensary establishment must be open to the public
at least 60% of the days during each license year. An exception can be granted
for an initial startup period up to 12 months if the dispensary includes a
cultivating facility.
(Prior Code, § S-5-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The license holder will receive a notice of intent to suspend or
notice of intent to revoke informing the license holder of the violation and
the city’s intention to suspend or revoke the license. The notice will be hand-
delivered to the license holder, or an employee or agent of the license holder,
or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the physical address of
the cannabis establishment.
   (B)   If the license holder disputes the suspension or revocation, the
license holder has ten days from the postmark date on the notice, or the date
the notice was hand-delivered, to request a hearing before a hearing panel,
which will consist of the Mayor, Finance Officer and Public Works Director.
   (C)   A suspension will be for 30 days and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice, or the date the notice was hand-delivered, unless
the license holder exercises its rights to process and appeal, in which case,
the suspension takes effect upon the final determination of suspension.
   (D)   A revocation will be for one year and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice, or the date the notice was hand-delivered, unless
the license holder appeals the revocation, in which case, the revocation takes
effect upon the final determination of revocation.
   (E)   The license holder who has had the license revoked may not be issued
any cannabis establishment license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective.
(Prior Code, § S-5-11)
§ 113.13 APPEALS.
   (A)   An applicant or license holder who has been denied a license or
renewal of a license, or who has had a license suspended or revoked, under this
chapter may appeal to the City Council by submitting a written appeal within
ten days of the postmark on the notice of denial, nonrenewal, suspension or
revocation. The written appeal must be submitted to City Hall, PO Box 700, Fort
Pierre, South Dakota, 57532.
   (B)   The appeal will be considered by the City Council at a regularly
scheduled meeting within one month of the receipt of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § S-5-12)
§ 113.14 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter,
an act by an employee or agent of a cannabis establishment that constitutes
grounds for suspension or revocation will be imputed to the cannabis
establishment license holder for purposes of finding a violation of this
chapter, or for purposes of license denial, suspension or revocation, only if
an officer, director or general partner, or a person who managed, supervised or
controlled the operation of the cannabis establishment, knowingly allowed such
act to occur on the premises.
(Prior Code, § S-5-15) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.15 NEUTRALITY OF CITY AS TO APPLICANTS.
   Upon request from the Department as to the city’s preference of applicants,
the city will neither support nor oppose any registration certificate
application under consideration by the Department. Likewise, if inquiry is made
by the Department, the city will abstain from endorsing any application as
beneficial to the community.
(Prior Code, § S-5-6)
§ 113.16 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   All cannabis establishments shall be in compliance with SDCL Ch. 34-20G. If
the state adopts stricter regulations governing cannabis establishments than
that set forth herein, the stricter regulations shall control the establishment
or operation of any cannabis establishment licensed by the city.
(Prior Code, § S-5-17)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who operates, or causes to be operated, a cannabis establishment
without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for code violations. Such violations are
punishable by a maximum fine of $500. Each day a cannabis establishment so
operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Prior Code, § S-5-16)
CHAPTER 114: FIREWORKS PERMITTING AND SALES
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Permit required
   
114.03   Permit fee
   
114.04   Time periods when sales permitted
   
114.05   Hours of sale
   
114.06   Prohibited sales
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks use, fireworks and sky lantern prohibitions, see
Ch. 94
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall establish rules regarding the permitting and sale of
fireworks within the city.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-33-1
§ 114.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or corporation to sell
retail fireworks without a fireworks permit issued by the City Finance Officer
or his or her designee. A separate permit process and applicable fee will be
required for each time frame: June 29 through July 5 and December 29 through
December 31.
(Prior Code, § P-4-3.1) (Ord. 1037, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-33-1
§ 114.03 PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   The fee for the permit required in §
114.02 of this chapter shall be $1,000, payable to the city upon application
for the fireworks permit for the June 29 through July 5 time frame.
   (B)   The fee for the permit required in §
114.02 of this chapter shall be $450, payable to the city upon application for
the fireworks permit for the December 29 through December 31 time frame.
   (C)   Such fees are nonrefundable unless City Council action is taken to
refund the fee.
(Prior Code, § P-4-3.2) (Ord. 1037, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-33-1
§ 114.04 TIME PERIODS WHEN SALES PERMITTED.
   No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall offer fireworks for retail
sale to individuals except during the period beginning June 29, extending
through July 5, and beginning December 29, extending through December 31.
(Prior Code, § P-4-3.3) (Ord. 943, passed - -; Ord. 944, passed - -; Ord. 1037,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-33-1
§ 114.05 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Sales are not permitted before 9:00 a.m., Central Time, or after 10:30
p.m., Central Time, from June 29 through July 2 and on July 5. Sales are not
permitted before 9:00 a.m., Central Time, or after 12:00 a.m. (midnight),
Central Time, on July 3 and July 4.
   (B)   Sales are permitted between the hours of 9:00 a.m., Central Time, and
8:00 p.m., Central Time, on December 29 and December 30. Sales are permitted
between the hours of 9:00 a.m., Central Time, and 12:00 a.m. (midnight),
Central Time, on December 31.
(Prior Code, § P-4-3.5) (Ord. 944, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-33-1
§ 114.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   Sale of certain fireworks and sky lanterns are prohibited as defined in §§
94.03 and
94.04.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-33-1
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   A person or persons in violation of this chapter shall be fined in
accordance with the following table:
 
Violation                            Fine
                                     $1,000 per day the licensed persons,
Person, persons or entities who are  persons or entity sells during
licensed to sell fireworks that are  nonpermitted hours or days and immediate
found to be selling fireworks during loss of license to sell firework in the
nonpermitted hours or days           city for a period of one year from the
                                     date of violation
 
(Prior Code, § P-4-3.7)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Title
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Grant of authority and general provisions
   
115.04   Application for new franchise
   
115.05   Construction and operations standards
   
115.06   System provisions and public services
   
115.07   Operation and administration provisions
   
115.08   Revocation, abandonment and sale or transfer
   
115.09   Franchise renewal and amendment
   
115.10   Marketing
   
115.11   Acceptance by grantee
   
115.12   Publication and effective date
Cross-reference:
   Cable franchise, see
TSO, Table I
§ 115.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Cable Communications
Regulatory Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § J-1-1) (Ord. 991, passed - -)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   When not inconsistent with the context, words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely
directory. The word MAY is directory and discretionary and not mandatory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the lawful
retransmission of local television broadcast signals and any public,
educational and governmental access programming required by the franchise to be
carried on the basic tier. BASIC CABLE SERVICE as defined herein shall not be
inconsistent with 47 U.S.C. § 543(b)(7).
      CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE.
         (a)   Any video programming provided over a cable system, regardless
of service tier, other than:
            1.   Video programming carried on the basic service tier;
            2.   Video programming offered on a pay-per-channel or pay-per-
program basis; or
            3.   A combination of multiple channels of pay-per-channel or pay-
per-program video programming offered on a multiplexed or time-shifted basis,
so long as the combined service:
               a.   Consists of commonly identified video programming; and
               b.   Is not bundled with any regulated tier of service.
         (b)   CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE, as defined herein, shall not be
inconsistent with the definition as set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 543(l)(2) and 47
C.F.R. § 76.901(b) (1993).
      CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video
programming, or other programming service, and subscriber interaction, if any,
which is required for the selection of such video programming or other
programming service.
      CABLE SYSTEM or SYSTEM. Has the meaning ascribed to it in federal law.
      COUNCIL. The Fort Pierre, South Dakota, City Council.
      FRANCHISE. An initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by a
franchising authority, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise,
permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement or otherwise,
which authorizes the construction or operation of a cable system or other MVPD
facility.
      FRANCHISE AREA. The area within the legal boundaries of the grantor.
      GRANTEE. The person which is granted a franchise in the city pursuant to
this chapter, its agents and employees, lawful successors, transferees or
assignees.
      GRANTOR. The City of Fort Pierre.
      GROSS REVENUE. Consists of those revenues derived from the monthly
service charges paid by subscribers residing within the corporate limits of the
city for basic cable service and premium pay services, such as HBO and the
Movie Channel. GROSS SUBSCRIBER REVENUES shall include the franchise fees in
the calculation and not include revenues received as installation charges, fees
for reconnections, inspections, repairs or modifications of any installation
and all state and federal taxes relating thereto.
      MULTICHANNEL VIDEO PROGRAM DISTRIBUTOR or MVPD. A person such as, but not
limited to, a cable operator, a multichannel multipoint distribution service, a
direct broadcast satellite service, an OVS provider or a television receive-
only satellite program distributor, who makes available for purchase, by
subscribers or customers, multiple channels of video programming.
      OPEN VIDEO SERVICES or OVS. Any video programming services provided to
any person by a franchisee certified by the FCC to operate an open video system
pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 573, as may be amended, regardless of the facilities
used.
      PAY TELEVISION. The delivery over the system of pay-per-channel or pay-
per-program audio-visual signals to subscribers for a fee or charge, in
addition to the charge for basic cable service or cable programming services.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or other legal entity.
      STANDARD INSTALLATION. Any residential installation which can be
completed using a drop of 150 feet or less.
      STREET. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street,
road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, path, court, sidewalk, parkway or drive,
or any easement or right-of-way now or hereafter held by grantor.
      SUBSCRIBER. Any person who lawfully receives cable service.
      VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to, programming provided by a television broadcast station.
(Prior Code, § J-1-1) (Ord. 991, passed - -)
§ 115.03 GRANT OF AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Franchise required. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
operate or maintain a cable system or MVPD facility, or to provide cable
service, video programming or other MVPD services, including OVS, in the
grantor without a franchise authorizing the same unless applicable federal or
state law prohibits the grantor’s enforcement of such a requirement.
   (B)   Grant of franchise. Any franchise that is granted in the city shall be
subject to the terms and conditions contained herein.
   (C)   Grant of nonexclusive authority.
      (1)   A grantee shall have the right to construct, erect, operate and
maintain in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the streets, public
ways and public places now laid out or dedicated, and all extensions thereof
and additions thereto, in the franchise area poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes and other television conductors and fixtures necessary for
the maintenance and operation in the franchise area of a cable system.
      (2)   A franchise shall be nonexclusive, and grantor reserves the right
to grant a similar use of said streets to any MVPD at any time; provided,
however, that all franchises shall contain the same terms and conditions as
provided in this chapter in order that one MVPD is not granted a competitive
advantage over another. In the event an MVPD commences operation without a
franchise, or is granted a franchise to operate by the grantor the terms and
conditions of which do not comply with this chapter, other grantees shall have
the right either: (a) to opt into the competitor’s franchise by providing ten
days’ prior written notice to the grantor; or (b) to petition the grantor for
modifications to its franchise, in which case, the grantor shall work in good
faith with the affected grantee(s) to review and adopt modifications which the
grantee(s) deem necessary; review and approval by grantor shall not be
unreasonably denied.
      (3)   Before granting an additional franchise, the grantor shall give
written notice to all grantees of any new application, identifying the
applicant for such additional franchise and providing at least 30 days’ prior
notice of the date, time and place at which the grantor shall consider and/or
determine whether such additional franchise should be granted.
      (4)   Every franchise shall apply to the entire service area of the
grantor, as it exists now or may later be configured.
      (5)   In the event grantor grants one or more additional franchises, or
one or more non- franchised MVPDs commence providing cable service in the
franchise area, a grantee may terminate or reduce the term of its franchise.
Grantee shall give written notice to grantor of its intent to terminate or
reduce at least 90 days prior to the effective date of any such reduction or
termination.
      (6)   Neither the city nor grantee(s) may unilaterally alter the material
rights and obligations set forth in an existing franchise. In the event of a
conflict between any other ordinance and this chapter, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
   (D)   Franchise term. A franchise shall be in effect for a period of up to
15 years from the effective date of the agreement unless renewed, revoked or
terminated sooner as herein provided.
   (E)   Territorial area involved. A franchise shall be granted for the
corporate boundaries of grantor as it exists from time to time. In the event of
annexation by grantor, or as development occurs, any new territory shall become
part of the area covered; provided, however, that grantee(s) shall not be
required to extend service beyond its present system boundaries unless there is
a minimum of 25 homes per cable mile as measured from the last fiber node or
terminating amplifier.
   (F)   Written notice. All notices, reports or demands required to be given
in writing under this chapter shall be deemed to be given when delivered
personally or by certified or registered mail to the City Finance Officer when
notice is to be given by a grantee to the grantor, or to any officer of grantee
when notice is to be given by the grantor to a grantee.
(Prior Code, § J-1-2) (Ord. 991, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 APPLICATION FOR NEW FRANCHISE.
   (A)   An application for a franchise to provide video programming shall be
in writing on a form provided by the city, which shall contain, where
applicable:
      (1)   The applicant’s name and the business address of applicant;
      (2)   A statement as to the proposed franchise area, and whether
applicant holds an existing authorization to access the rights-of-way in the
city, and a map of the areas where such authorization exists if for an area
other than the entire city;
      (3)   Resume of prior history of applicant, including the legal,
technical and financial expertise of applicant in the cable service field;
      (4)   List of officers, directors and managing employees of applicant and
resumes of each;
      (5)   A proposed construction and schedule to provide cable service or
video programming to subscribers;
      (6)   A certificate of insurance consistent with the requirements of this
chapter;
      (7)   A description of the cable system the applicant intends to build,
including its capacity, the types of equipment proposed for use and the cable
services or video programming which will be offered;
      (8)   A description of the financial qualifications of the applicant to
construct and operate the system, including a balance sheet, income statement
sources and uses of funds statement and pro forma projections for at least
three years of operation subsequent to system completion; and
      (9)   A proposed plan for public, educational and government access
channels, including funding, facilities and equipment and capacity on the
system to be dedicated for educational and governmental use.
   (B)   The franchise application may be evaluated according to the following
criteria and approved within 180 days after the city deems the application is
complete. In the event applicant is already authorized to occupy the rights-of-
way, the time for review and approval will be 90 days.
      (1)   The evidence of legal, technical and financial ability required in
the applicant’s proposal will be such as to assure the ability to complete the
entire system within a reasonable time from the date the franchise is granted.
The city will also consider the applicant’s ability to operate the system and
provide the necessary cable services or video programming in compliance with
the terms of this chapter.
      (2)   The City Public Works Director or his or her designee shall prepare
a report and make his or her recommendations respecting such application to the
City Council.
      (3)   A public hearing shall be set prior to any grant of a franchise at
a time and date approved by the City Council. Within 30 days after the close of
the hearing, the City Council shall make a decision based upon the evidence
received at the hearing as to whether or not the franchise(s) should be
granted. The City Council may, in its discretion, impose conditions upon the
issuance of a franchise.
      (4)   The city may consider any information in addition to the franchise
application that it deems applicable.
(Prior Code, § J-1-3) (Ord. 991, passed - -)
§ 115.05 CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATIONS STANDARDS.
   (A)   A grantee shall obtain all required permits from grantor before
commencing any construction upgrade or extension of the system.
   (B)   The grantor shall impose no permit fees upon a grantee.
   (C)   If at any time during the period of this franchise grantor shall elect
to alter or change the grade or location of any street, alley or other public
way, a grantee shall, at its own expense, upon reasonable notice by grantor,
remove and relocate its poles, wires, cables, conduits, manholes and other
fixtures of the system. If grantor reimburses other occupants of the street, a
grantee shall be likewise reimbursed.
   (D)   A grantee shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit
issued by grantor, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the moving
of buildings, with the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by the
person requesting the same, and a grantee shall be given not less than ten
days’ advance notice to arrange for such temporary changes.
   (E)   A grantee may, with advance approval from the Public Works Director,
trim any trees upon and overhanging the streets, alleys, sidewalks or public
easements of grantor so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in
contact with the wires and cables of the grantee.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve any person from
liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injuring grantee’s facilities.
   (G)   In areas where all other utility lines are placed underground, grantee
shall construct and install its cables, wires and other facilities underground.
In any area where one or more public utilities are aerial, grantee may
construct and install its cables, wires and other facilities from the same pole
with the consent of the owner of the pole.
   (H)   A grantee shall at all times construct and operate its system in
accordance with applicable FCC technical specifications.
   (I)   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued
for any reason for a continuous period of 12 months, or in the event such
systems or property has been installed in any street or public place without
complying with the requirements of this chapter, or the rights granted
hereunder have been terminated, cancelled or have expired, grantee shall,
subject to the rights of the city to acquire the system as specified in
division (J) below, promptly remove from the streets or public places all such
property and poles of such system other than any which the city may permit to
be abandoned in place. In the event of such removal, grantee shall promptly
restore the street or other area from which such property has been removed to a
condition satisfactory to the city.
   (J)   Any property of grantee to be abandoned in place shall be abandoned in
such a manner as the city may prescribe. Upon permanent abandonment of the
property of grantee in place, it shall submit to the city an instrument, to be
approved by the city, transferring to the city the ownership of such property.
   (K)   All cable and passive equipment for cable television reception service
installed by grantee at a subscriber’s location shall remain the property of
grantee, and grantee shall have the right to remove said cable and equipment.
Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall promptly
remove all its aboveground facilities and equipment from the premises of such
subscriber upon his or her request.
   (L)   No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected by the
grantee without prior approval of the Public Works Director with regard to
location, height, type or any other pertinent aspect, which approval shall not
be unreasonably withheld. However, no locations of any pole or wire-holding
structure of the grantee shall be a vested interest, and such poles or
structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its own expense
whenever the Public Works Director determines it to be necessary or that the
public convenience would be enhanced thereby.
   (M)   Where poles or other wire-holding structures already existing in use
in serving the city are available for use by grantee but grantee does not make
arrangements for such use, the City Council may require the grantee to use such
poles and structures if the City Council determines it to be necessary or that
the public convenience would be enhanced thereby and the terms of the use
available to the grantee are just and reasonable.
   (N)   Where the city or a public utility serving the city desires to make
use of poles or other wire- holding structures of the grantee but agreement
therefore with the grantee cannot be reached, the City Council may require the
grantee to permit such use for such consideration as is just and reasonable and
upon such terms as the Council determines the use would enhance the public
convenience and would not unduly interfere with the grantee’s operations.
   (O)   Grantee shall at all times maintain on file with the City Finance
Officer a schedule setting forth all of the rates and charges to be made to
subscribers for basic cable service, including installation charges.
   (P)   During the term thereof, the city may regulate rates only if
authorized to do so by Federal Communications Commission regulations, and then,
such regulation shall only be in accordance with the provisions of such
regulations.
(Prior Code, § J-1-4) (Ord. 991, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.06 SYSTEM PROVISIONS AND PUBLIC SERVICES.
   (A)   Operation and maintenance of system. A grantee shall render effective
service, make repairs promptly and interrupt service only for good cause and
for the shortest time possible.
   (B)   Service to schools and city. A grantee shall, subject to the line
extension requirements of §
115.03(E) of this chapter, provide one drop and one outlet of basic cable
service at no cost to public and parochial elementary and secondary schools in
the city and to four city buildings, to be mutually agreed upon by the city and
a grantee.
   (C)   PEG channel. The grantee shall allocate one channel to the city as a
public, educational or governmental access channel. Until such time as the city
files a written request with grantee for full-time use of the channel, grantee
shall have the right to use that portion of the channel capacity that is not
being used by the city. The grantee shall have a reasonable period of time
after notification to vacate its use of the channel. The grantee shall assist
the city in obtaining the necessary licenses and frequency clearance to enable
the city to use said channel.
   (D)   Emergency use. In the case of any emergency or disaster, a grantee
shall, upon request of the City Council, make available its facilities to the
city for emergency use. A grantee shall comply with the emergency alert
requirements of federal law.
   (E)   Lockout device. Upon the request of a subscriber, grantee shall
provide, by sale or lease, a lockout device.
(Prior Code, § J-1-5) (Ord. 991, passed - -)
§ 115.07 OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Indemnification of grantor.
      (1)   A grantee shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless grantor, its
officers, boards, committees, commissions, elected officials, employees and
agents, from and against all liability, damages and penalties which they may
legally be required to pay as a result of the exercise of a franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter, including claims covered by workers’ compensation
insurance or any claims arising from or related to grantor’s negligence.
Nothing in this chapter relieves a person from liability arising out of the
failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring the grantee’s facilities
while performing work connected with grading, regarding or changing the line of
a street or public place or with the construction or reconstruction of a sewer
or water system.
      (2)   In order for grantor to assert its rights to be indemnified,
defended and held harmless, grantor must, with respect to each claim:
         (a)   Notify a grantee in writing when grantor becomes aware of any
claim or legal proceeding which reasonably gives rise to such right;
         (b)   Afford grantee the opportunity to participate in any compromise,
settlement or other resolution or disposition of any claim or proceeding; and
         (c)   Cooperate in good faith with reasonable requests of grantee, at
grantee’s expense, in its participation in compromise, settlement or resolution
or other disposition of such claim or proceeding subject to division (A)(2)(b)
above.
   (B)   Insurance.
      (1)   A grantee shall maintain in full force and effect, at its sole
expense, a comprehensive general liability insurance policy, including
contractual liability coverage, in protection of grantor in its capacity as
such.
      (2)   The policies of insurance shall be in the sum of not less than
$300,000 for personal injury or death of any one person and $1,000,000 for
personal injury or death of two or more persons in any one occurrence and
$300,000 for property damage to any one person and $1,000,000 for property
damage resulting from any one act or occurrence.
   (C)   Franchise fee.
      (1)   A grantee will pay grantor a monthly franchise fee in the amount of
5% of grantee’s gross revenues.
      (2)   The franchise fee shall be payable monthly, together with a brief
report showing the basis for the computation.
      (3)   The period of limitation for recovery of any franchise fee payable
hereunder shall be six years from the date on which payment by grantee is due.
(Prior Code, § J-1-6) (Ord. 991, passed - -)
§ 115.08 REVOCATION, ABANDONMENT AND SALE OR TRANSFER.
   (A)   Grantor’s right to revoke. The grantor reserves the right to revoke,
terminate or cancel a franchise if it is determined that a grantee has violated
any material provision of its franchise or this chapter and has failed to
substantially cure said violation.
   (B)   Procedures for revocation.
      (1)   The grantor shall provide a grantee with written notice of a cause
for revocation and the intent to revoke and shall allow grantee 60 days
subsequent to receipt of the notice in which to substantially cure the
violation or to provide adequate assurance of performance. If grantor
determines grantee has satisfactorily corrected the violation upon which such
notice was given within the 60 days, the initial notice shall become void.
However, if grantor determines grantee has failed to cure the violation,
grantor shall provide to grantee in writing notice of the remaining violations
that are the basis of the revocation.
      (2)   The grantee shall be provided the right to a public hearing
affording due process before the grantor Council prior to revocation, which
public hearing shall follow the 60-day notice provided in division (B)(1)
above. Following any such public hearing, grantor shall provide grantee with
written notice of its decision together with written findings of fact
supporting said decision.
      (3)   After the public hearing and upon written determination by grantor
to revoke the franchise, grantee may appeal said decision to the Circuit Court,
Sixth Judicial Circuit, of the county.
      (4)   During any appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force
and effect unless the term thereof sooner expires.
   (C)   Sale or transfer of franchise. No sale or transfer of a franchise
shall take place without the written approval of the grantor, which approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld. All of the rights, privileges, obligations,
duties and liabilities created by this franchise shall pass to and be binding
upon the successor or assign of a grantee. The grantor may, at its sole
discretion, waive such approval where a grantee grants to grantor a security
interest in its franchise and assets to secure indebtedness.
(Prior Code, § J-1-7) (Ord. 991, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.09 FRANCHISE RENEWAL AND AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Renewal. Any renewal of a franchise shall be done in accordance with
applicable federal law.
   (B)   Amendment. A grantee and grantor may agree, from time to time, to
amend a franchise. Such written amendments may be made at any time.
(Prior Code, § J-1-8) (Ord. 991, passed - -)
§ 115.10 MARKETING.
   A grantee shall have the right to conduct direct selling in the franchise
area, including door-to-door sales, notwithstanding any peddler or solicitor
laws or regulations to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § J-1-8) (Ord. 991, passed - -)
§ 115.11 ACCEPTANCE BY GRANTEE.
   The grantee shall accept this franchise by executing same. Such acceptance
by the grantee shall be deemed the grant of this franchise for all purposes.
With its acceptance, grantee shall also deliver any insurance certificates
required herein that have not been previously delivered. Upon acceptance of
this franchise, grantee shall be bound by all the terms and conditions
contained herein. Midcontinent Communications is an Equal Opportunity/
Affirmative Action employer M/F/D/V.
(Prior Code, § J-1-9)
§ 115.12 PUBLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be published in accordance with law. The effective date
of this chapter shall be the twentieth day after its publication unless
suspended by operation of a referendum.
(Prior Code, § J-1-9)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALITY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
134.   OFFENSES BASED UPON AGE
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Purpose
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Nature of penalties
   
130.04   Law enforcement exemption
§ 130.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide peace, safety and order for the
community.
(Prior Code, § M-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-1
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTENTIONALLY or INTENT. The specific design to cause a certain result or
engage in conduct of a certain nature.
   PERSON. A natural person, an unborn child, association, limited liability
company, corporation, firm, organization, partnership or society, including
governmental and quasi-governmental entities.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real or personal property proven by valid deed, bill of
sale or title to belong to a private person.
   PROPERTY. Anything of value, including, but not limited to, motor vehicles,
real estate, tangible and intangible personal property, contract rights,
chooses-in-action and other interests in or claims to wealth, admission or
transportation tickets, captured or domestic animals, food and drink, electric
or other power, services and signatures which purport to create, maintain or
extinguish any legal obligation.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Real or personal property owned by federal, state, county
or city government; any property which is not proven to be owned by a private
citizen.
(Prior Code, § M-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 22-1-2
§ 130.03 NATURE OF PENALTIES.
   Penalties provided in this title shall not offset, enjoin, preempt or
otherwise affect any civil remedy provided by ordinance, statute or common law.
(Prior Code, § M-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 22-2-1
§ 130.04 LAW ENFORCEMENT EXEMPTION.
   Law enforcement officers in the course of pursuing their official duties
shall be exempt from the provisions of this title. This exemption shall not
extend, however to such officers when not acting in their official capacity
pursuant to their employment and in the interest of public safety.
(Prior Code, § M-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 22-18-2
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disturbing the peace
   
131.02   Disorderly conduct
   
131.03   Concealable weapons
   
131.04   Discharging firearms
   
131.05   Discharging BB or pellet-propelling devices
   
131.06   Jumping or diving from bridges
   
131.07   Obstructing an officer
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause or instill terror, panic or violent
reactions in one or more other persons, or to create or aid in creating a state
of pandemonium, by any of the following means:
   (A)   Verbal invitation to physical conflict, fistfight or dueling of any
violent nature;
   (B)   Training, pointing, aiming or brandishing a cutting instrument,
firearm, club or other item suited for injury by striking, whip, bottle, chain,
sap or brass knuckles at another person, accompanied by verbal or nonverbal
expression of intent to cause imminent destruction;
   (C)   Expressions of alarm of a type that commonly cause prompt evacuation
of a premises when there is no factual basis for such exclamations; or
   (D)   Apparent release of dangerous creature or agent, or a facsimile of
such a dangerous creature or agent, or bringing such creature, agent or
facsimile thereof within close or dangerous proximity to a person.
(Prior Code, § M-3-2) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 131.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if he or she:
   (A)   Creates a disturbance of the public order by an act of violence or by
an act likely to produce violence;
   (B)   Engages in fighting or in violent, threatening or tumultuous behavior;
   (C)   Willfully makes any unreasonable loud noise with the purpose to cause
public danger or alarm;
   (D)   Addresses abusive language or threats to any person present which
creates clear and present danger of violence;
   (E)   Causes likelihood of harm or serious inconvenience by failing to obey
a lawful order of dispersal by a local law enforcement officer where three or
more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate
vicinity;
   (F)   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of
another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive
condition;
   (G)   Hinders, annoys or molests persons passing along any street, sidewalk,
crosswalk or other public way, or loiters, sits or stands around the entrance
of any church, theater, public building or other place of public assemblage in
any manner so as to unreasonably obstruct such entrance;
   (H)   Assembles together with two or more persons with intent to do any
unlawful act with force or violence against the person or property of another,
and who makes any overt act to carry out such unlawful purpose; or
   (I)   Disturbs, threatens or in any insolent manner intentionally touches
any house or vehicle occupied by any person.
(Prior Code, § M-3-1) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3 and 22-13-1
§ 131.03 CONCEALABLE WEAPONS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful to carry, wear or possess upon the person a
concealable weapon in any place open to the public within the jurisdiction of
the city.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to individuals possessing a
concealable weapon in their own dwelling house, place of business or land owned
or rented by them or a member of their household. It further shall not apply
with respect to handguns in the possession of an individual who has been
licensed to carry the same in accordance with the laws of the state.
   (B)   It is unlawful to carry, wear or possess upon the person a concealable
weapon on a premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages or beer. This
provision shall not apply to the alcoholic beverage licensee or agents of such
licensee in the course of employment.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a CONCEALABLE WEAPON includes, but is
not limited to, a club, sap, blackjack, brass or aluminum knuckles or any
apparatus commonly utilized or designed principally for purposes of engaging in
combat or in the martial arts. Sword canes, push daggers, boot knives, ice
picks and straight razors are specifically included within this definition, and
whether or not the item is in fact concealed is irrelevant to the prohibitions
contained in this section.
(Prior Code, § M-3-4) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-29-2
§ 131.04 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm within the
city, except the City Council may permit the hunting of upland game birds and
waterfowl, with a shotgun, within certain designated areas inside the city
limits upon resolution approved and adopted by the City Council and in
accordance with the laws and regulations of the state.
(Prior Code, § M-3-5) (Ord. 881, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-1
§ 131.05 DISCHARGING BB OR PELLET-PROPELLING DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone under the age of 16 years to shoot or
discharge any air rifle, air gun, BB gun, pellet gun, CO2 or slingshot device,
or use for any purpose any such device for forcing through the air BBs or
pellets of any character whatsoever, within the corporate limits of the city
without immediate adult supervision.
(Prior Code, § M-3-6) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-2
§ 131.06 JUMPING OR DIVING FROM BRIDGES.
   It is unlawful for any person to jump or dive from any bridge structure,
including train bridges, automobile bridges or recreational bridges, within the
city.
(Prior Code, § M-3-7) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 OBSTRUCTING AN OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to touch, restrain, impede, hinder, obstruct
or interfere in any manner with any local law enforcement officer, firefighter,
ambulance attendant or any employee of the city when on active duty, identified
or uniformed, and discharging his or her duties pursuant to employment.
(Prior Code, § M-3-3) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 22-11-6
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of any section within this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of this chapter or regulation promulgated thereunder shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § M-3-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALITY
Section
   
132.01   Open alcohol containers; public consumption
   
132.02   Public use of cannabis
   
132.03   Public intoxication
   
132.04   Public indecency
   
132.05   Prostitution
   
132.06   Maintaining premises where unlawful acts solicited or occur
   
132.07   Sleeping or resting in public places
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 OPEN ALCOHOL CONTAINERS; PUBLIC CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Prohibition. Except as provided by SDCL § 35-1-5.3, as amended, and
except for malt beverages in parks, ball fields and fishing areas, it shall be
unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession in any public place or
in any vacant building within the city any unsealed or open can, bottle, glass,
pitcher, container or package of any kind containing an alcoholic beverage.
   (B)   Special permit.
      (1)   A special permit, upon approval of the City Council, may be issued
to any person who is 21 years or older and representing a family or civic/
community organization to allow the consumption of alcoholic beverages or the
mixing of such beverages on publicly owned or nonprofit corporation owned
property for a period of not more than 24 hours.
      (2)   The consumption of such beverages must be kept within the confines
of the legal description of the property stated on the permit.
(Prior Code, § M-4-4) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-7 and 35-1-5.3
§ 132.02 PUBLIC USE OF CANNABIS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the smoking or consumption
of cannabis products on or in any form of public transportation, or in any
public place, or in any place that is open to the public, within the city and
its territorial jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § M-4-4.1) (Ord. 1054, passed - -) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-1 and SDCL Ch. 34-20G
§ 132.03 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It is unlawful to appear in a place which is open to public travel or which
is publicly owned while under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances
to an extent which:
   (A)   Poses a threat to the safety of any person;
   (B)   Causes acute embarrassment or fear of injury; or
   (C)   Impedes or hinders the use of such place by others lawfully present.
(Prior Code, § M-4-5) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 132.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   It is unlawful to reveal or display human genitals or representations or
facsimiles thereof, or to permit the show or display thereof, in any place open
to the public.
(Prior Code, § M-4-9) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 22-24-1.1
§ 132.05 PROSTITUTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to offer, solicit or perform sexual
intercourse in return for money or anything of value. It is unlawful to accept
or participate in such activity in any manner whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § M-4-8) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-29-4
§ 132.06 MAINTAINING PREMISES WHERE UNLAWFUL ACTS SOLICITED OR OCCUR.
   No person shall knowingly keep, maintain or lease any premises or property
that is used for solicitation or performance of unlawful acts.
(Prior Code, § M-4-7) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-4
§ 132.07 SLEEPING OR RESTING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It is unlawful to recline, rest or sleep in a place which is publicly owned,
except for designated camping or in parks and recreation areas.
(Prior Code, § M-4-6) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of any section within this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of this code or regulation promulgated thereunder shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § M-4-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
133.01   Tampering with motor vehicles
   
133.02   Trespassing
   
133.03   Theft
   
133.04   Intentional damage of property
   
133.05   Commission prohibited
   
133.06   Obstruction of public property use
   
133.07   Misuse of public property
   
133.08   Damage of public property
   
133.09   Interference with utility fixtures
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 TAMPERING WITH MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful to alter or damage, or to put any portion or all of one’s
anatomy on or into, a motor vehicle without the express consent of the owner of
such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § M-2-8) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 32-4-4
§ 133.02 TRESPASSING.
   Any person who enters or remains upon the private property of another, when
there is reasonable cause to believe that the owner or tenant of the property
would not or does not permit such entry or remaining on the premises, commits a
trespass.
(Prior Code, § M-2-1) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1 and 22-35-6
§ 133.03 THEFT.
   Any person who acquires or keeps the personal property or chattel (having a
value of $100 or less) of another person having the exclusive legal right to
possess such property, when there is reasonable cause to believe that the
person does not consent to such acquisition or retention, commits a theft.
(Prior Code, § M-2-2) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1 and 22-30A-17
§ 133.04 INTENTIONAL DAMAGE OF PROPERTY.
   Any person who damages, destroys or substantially alters the real or
personal property of another, causing damage of $100 or less, without the
explicit consent of the owner is guilty of intentional damage to property in
the third degree.
(Prior Code, § M-2-3) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1 and 22-34-1
§ 133.05 COMMISSION PROHIBITED.
   The commission of a trespass, theft or intentional damage to property is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § M-2-9) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
§ 133.06 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY USE.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, interfere with or prevent the
legitimate use by others of a public park, marina or other public facility
within the city. This section shall not apply when the person or group has
obtained a permit from the City Council authorizing such activities unless such
permit is violated, has expired or was fraudulently obtained.
(Prior Code, § M-2-5) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1 and 9-38-1
§ 133.07 MISUSE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful to enter upon or refuse to leave any public property in
violation of regulations promulgated by the official charged with the security,
care or maintenance of the property and approved by the governing body of the
public agency owning the property, which such regulations have been
conspicuously posted or after such regulations are made known by the official
charged with the security, care or maintenance of the property, his or her
agent or a local law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § M-2-6) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1 and 9-38-1
§ 133.08 DAMAGE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for persons to damage, remove, alter, deface, disable
or convert to private use or purpose any property owned, leased or held by
federal, state, county or municipal government unless authorized to do so by
the appropriate government.
   (B)   Conduct prohibited by this section includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Damage to, removal of or impairment of publicly owned signs,
signals, barricades, fences, street lights or safety appliances of any type;
      (2)   Writing upon, painting or marking streets, sidewalks, walls or
public structures;
      (3)   Cutting, removing, injuring or defacing trees, ornamental shrubbery
or flowers located upon any public land, except in order to conform to a safety
regulation;
      (4)   Operating a motor vehicle upon or over public land which has been
seeded or sodded, or upon which vegetation has been planted; and
      (5)   Operating or damaging any publicly owned vehicle, equipment or
tool.
(Prior Code, § M-2-4) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1, 9-38-1 and 22-34-1
§ 133.09 INTERFERENCE WITH UTILITY FIXTURES.
   It is unlawful to interfere with, injure, break or tamper with any
electrical, telephone, cable television, alarm system or other utility pole,
post, apparatus, line or fixture.
(Prior Code, § M-2-7) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 22-34-28 and 49-34-20
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of any section within this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of this chapter or regulation promulgated thereunder shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § M-2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES BASED UPON AGE
Section
   
134.01   Curfew
   
134.02   Possessing alcoholic beverages
   
134.03   Entering or remaining in bars
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to preserve the peace and
tranquility, to eliminate acts which annoy, injure or endanger the comfort and
repose of others of the community, to reduce crimes and delinquency by minor
children under the age of 16 years while engaged in acts of vandalism and
destruction of public and private property and to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the children of our community from the temptations of juvenile
delinquency and illegal drug and alcohol use and abuse.
   (B)   Regulations. It shall be unlawful for any minor child to unnecessarily
remain upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks or private
property made available for public use between the hours of 10:00 p.m., Central
Time, and 6:00 a.m., Central Time, of the following day if such minor child is
under the age of 16 years, provided that the provisions of this section do not
apply to a minor child who is at home, is accompanied by his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person having the custody or care of the minor child,
is attending or going directly to and from employment, school, church or a
religious, civic or political activity or is a nonresident minor child
traveling through the city on the way to another destination.
   (C)   Parent or guardian responsibility. It shall be unlawful for the
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care or custody of a minor
child who is under the age of 16 years to knowingly permit such minor child to
unnecessarily remain upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks or
private property made available for public use between the hours of 10:00 p.m.,
Central Time, and 6:00 a.m., Central Time, of the following day; provided,
however, the provisions of this section do not apply when the minor child is at
home, is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care or custody of the minor child, is attending or going directly
to and from employment, school, church or a religious, civic or political
activity or is a nonresident minor child traveling through the city on the way
to another destination.
   (D)   Violation. Violation of this section shall be punishable in accordance
with §
134.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § M-5-3) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-3 and 26-7A-1(21) and SDCL Ch.
26-7A, 26-8A, 26-8B and 26-8C
§ 134.02 POSSESSING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to possess any
alcoholic beverage unless in the immediate company of his or her parent, legal
guardian or spouse over 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § M-5-2) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 ENTERING OR REMAINING IN BARS.
   No person less than 21 years of age may enter or occupy any premises where
alcoholic beverages are sold pursuant to an on-sale alcoholic beverage retail
license. A person in the immediate company of his or her parent, legal guardian
or spouse over 21 years of age while on the premises is excepted from the
operation of this section.
(Prior Code, § M-5-1) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-7
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of any section within this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of this chapter or regulation promulgated thereunder shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § M-5-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   WEEDS AND TREES
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
155.   TRAVEL PARKS
      
156.   VACATION HOMES
      
157.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
158.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
159.   PLANNING AND ZONING
      
160.   CANNABIS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
Codes Adopted
   
150.01   Building Code
   
150.02   Electric Code
   
150.03   Plumbing Code
   
150.04   Mechanical Code
   
150.05   Fire Code
Dwelling and Housing Standards
   
150.20   Purpose
   
150.21   Dwelling requirements
   
150.22   Landlord or landlady responsible
Vacant or Dangerous Buildings
   
150.35   Purpose
   
150.36   Definitions
   
150.37   Vacant or dangerous buildings prohibited
   
150.38   Notice and removal of violations
   
150.39   Inspections
   
150.40   Alternative procedures
   
150.41   Exemptions
   
150.42   Appeals procedure
Explosive or Combustible Materials Storage
   
150.55   Purpose
   
150.56   Authority
   
150.57   Storage generally
   
150.58   Permit for combustible liquid or liquefied petroleum gas facilities
   
150.59   Application requirements
   
150.60   Waiver procedures
   
150.61   Permit hearing
   
150.62   Facilities applicable to §§
150.55 through
150.99
 
   
150.99   Penalty
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish the adoption of the
International Building Code to ensure that any buildings constructed within the
city are constructed in a safe manner resulting in a structurally sound,
finished product.
(Prior Code, § P-1-1)
   (B)   There is hereby adopted the International Building Code, 2015 edition,
International Residential Code, 2015 edition, International Existing Building
Code, 2015 edition, and International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 edition,
in whole, except such portions as have been deleted, modified or amended, and
as so deleted, modified or amended as listed below.
   (C)   The following sections of the International Building Code, 2015
Edition, as adopted by the state are hereby amended, added or deleted as
follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1 insert where indicated: City of Fort Pierre;
      (2)   Section 1612.3 insert where indicated: City of Fort Pierre;
      (3)   Section 1612.3 insert where indicated: May 17, 2004;
      (4)   Amend to read as follows: Section 101.4.3 Plumbing. The provisions
of the Uniform Plumbing Code as adopted by the State of South Dakota shall
apply to the installation, alterations, repair and replacement of plumbing
systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances,
and where connected to a water and sewage systems and all aspects of a medical
gas system. The provisions of the South Dakota Department of Agricultural and
Natural Resources shall apply to Individual and Small on-site Wastewater
Systems (ARSD 74:03:01). All references to the International Plumbing Code
shall refer to the Uniform Plumbing Code as adopted by the State of South
Dakota and thus adopted by the City of Fort Pierre;
      (5)   Delete Section 101.4.6 Energy;
      (6)   Amend to read as follows: Section 101.4.8 Electrical. The
provisions of the National Electric Code as adopted by the State of South
Dakota shall apply to the installation of electrical systems, including
equipment appliances, fixtures, fittings and/or appurtenances thereto. All
references to the International Code Council (ICC) Electrical Code shall refer
to the National Electrical Code as adopted by the State of South Dakota and
City of Fort Pierre;
      (7)   Amend to read as follows: Section 103.1 Creation of enforcement
agency. The Department of Public Safety is hereby created and the official in
charge thereof shall be known as the building official. The Department of
Public Safety is under the jurisdiction of the Public Works Department. The
Building Official unless otherwise indicated is the Director of Public Works
(a.k.a. Public Works Director);
      (8)   Add the following paragraph to Section 104.8.1 Legal Defense: This
code shall not be construed to relieve or lessen the responsibility of any
person owning, operating, or controlling any building or structure for any
damages to persons or property caused by defects, nor shall the City, or its
officers and employees, be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the
inspections authorized by this code or any permits or certificates issued under
this code;
      (9)   Delete the following: Section 105.1.1 Annual Permit;
      (10)   Delete the following: Section 105.1.2 Annual permit records;
      (11)   Add the following paragraph to Section 105.2 Work exempt from
permit: 14. Decks, Platforms and stages not over 30 inches (762 mm) above
adjacent grade and not over any basement or story below and which are not part
of an accessory route;
      (12)   Add the following paragraph to Section 108.3 Temporary Power. An
Electrical Permit issued by the South Dakota State Electric Commission shall be
obtained prior to commencing work on the installation of Temporary Power;
      (13)   Amend to read as follows: Section 109.4 Work before permit
issuance. Any person who commences any work on a building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary
permits, shall be subject to a fine of 10% of the required building permit fee,
but not less than $25, per day for each day work is performed prior obtaining
the required permits. This fine is in addition to the permit fees;
      (14)   Add the following section: Section 109.7 Delinquent accounts and
fees. Building Permits will not be issued to properties with delinquent utility
accounts. Certificate of Occupancy will not be issued for properties with
delinquent utility accounts, fees and fines. Building Permit fees and fines not
paid after 60 days from date of payment is requested shall be assessed to the
property in the form special assessment;
      (15)   Amend to read as follows: Section 113.3 Members. The Board of
Appeals shall consist of the current members of the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals as appointed by the Fort Pierre City Commission;
      (16)   Amended to read as follows: Section 114.4 Violation penalties. Any
person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply with any of the
requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters, or repairs a building
or structure in violation of the approved construction documents or directives
from the Building Official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the
provisions of this code, shall be subject to a penalty of $100 for each
violation for each day the violations exist;
      (17)   Amended to read as follows: Section 116.1 Conditions. Structures
or existing equipment that are or hereafter become unsafe, unsanitary or
deficient because of inadequate means of egress, facilities, inadequate light
and ventilation, that constitute a fire hazard, that are unstable, that are not
structurally adequate or are otherwise dangerous to human life or the public
welfare, or that involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate
maintenance, shall be deemed unsafe structures. Unsafe structures shall be
taken down and removed or made safe, as the building official deems necessary
and as provided for in this section. A vacant building that is not secured
against entry, harbors wild animals and rodents, windows and doors are missing
or not secured by normal means, no utilities are active or functioning for
periods longer than 60 days, or is vacant for longer than 12 months shall be
deemed unsafe. An “unsafe” structure shall be considered a “dangerous”
structure in reference to the law;
      (18)   Amended to read as follows: Section 116.3 Notice. If an unsafe
structure is found, the building official shall serve on the owner, agent or
person in control of the structure, a written notice that describes the
condition deemed unsafe and specifies the required repairs or improvements to
be made to abate the unsafe condition, or that requires the unsafe structure to
be demolished within a stipulated time. Such Notice shall require the person
thus notified to respond within the prescribed time period to the building
official acceptance or rejection of the terms of this order in accordance with
the law;
      (19)   Amend to read as follows: Section 116.5 Restoration. Where the
structure or equipment determined to be unsafe by the building official is
restored to a safe condition, to extent that repairs, alterations, or additions
are made or a change of occupancy occurs during the restoration of the
structure, such repairs, alterations, additions, and change of occupancy shall
comply with the requirements of the construction plans approved by the building
official and the International Existing Building Code;
      (20)   Add the following definitions to Section 202 Definitions.
         STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a
legal proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its
case. It is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was
prohibited or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to
do.
      (21)   Amend to read as follows: Section 305.2 Group E, Day Care
Facilities. This group includes buildings and structures or portions thereof
occupied by more than 12 children older than 2 ½ years of age who receive
educational, supervision or personal care services for fewer than 24 hours per
day;
      (22)   Amend to read as follows: Section 305.2.2 Twelve or fewer
children. A facility having twelve (12) or fewer children receiving such day
care shall be classified as part of the primary occupancy;
      (23)   Amend to read as follows: Section 305.3 Twelve or fewer children
in a dwelling unit. A facility such as above within a dwelling unit and having
twelve (12) or fewer children receiving day care shall be classified as a Group
R-3 occupancy or shall comply with the International Residential Code;
      (24)   Amend to read as follows: Section 308.6 Institutional Group I-4,
day care facilities. Institutional Group I-4 occupancy shall include buildings
and structures occupied by more than twelve (12) persons of any age who
received custodial care for fewer than 24 hours per day by persons other than
parents or guardians, relatives by blood, marriage or adoption, and in a place
other than the home of the person cared for. This group shall include, but not
limited to, the following:
         Adult day care
         Child day care
      (25)   Amend to read as follows: Section 308.6.3 Twelve or fewer persons
receiving care. A facility having twelve (12) or fewer persons receiving
custodial care shall be classified as part of the primary occupancy;
      (26)   Amend to read as follows: Section 308.6.4 Twelve or fewer persons
receiving care in a dwelling unit. A facility such as the above with a dwelling
unit and having twelve (12) or fewer persons receiving custodial care shall be
classified as R-3 occupancy or shall comply with the International Residential
Code;
      (27)   Amend to read as follows: Section 706.6.2 Building with Sloped
Roofs. Where a fire wall serves as an interior wall for building, and the roof
on one side or both sides of the fire wall slopes toward the firewall at a
slope greater than two units vertical to 12 units horizontal (2:12), the fire
wall shall extend to a height equal to the height of the roof located at a
point four (4) feet from the firewall plus 30 inches. In no case shall the
extension of the firewall be less than 30 inches.
         Exception: The fire wall may terminate at the underside of the roof
sheathing, deck or slab of the roof provided:
            1.   The roof assemblies within 10 feet of the fire wall has a fire
rating not less than a 1-hour fire resistance rating and the entire length of
and span of the supporting elements for the rated roof assembly has a fire-
resistance rating of not less than 1-hour.
            2.   Openings in the roof on each side of the fire wall shall not
be located within 10 feet of the fire wall.
      (28)   Amend to read as follows: 903.2.8. Group R. An automatic sprinkler
system shall be installed in accordance with Section 903.3 shall be provided
throughout all buildings with a Group R fire area.
         Exception: Group R-3. One and Two-family dwellings.
      (29)   Amend to read as follows: 903.1.1.1 Exempt locations. Automatic
sprinklers shall not be required in the following rooms or areas where such
rooms or areas are protected with an approved automatic fire detection system
in accordance with Section 907.2 that will respond to visible and invisible
particles of combustion. Sprinklers shall not be omitted from a room merely
because it is damp, of fire resistance-rated construction or contains
electrical equipment.
         1.   A room where application of water, or flame and water,
constitutes a serious life or fire hazard.
         2.   A room or space where sprinklers are considered undesirable
because of the nature if the contents, where approved by the fire code
official. Such rooms shall be separated from the remainder of the building by
fire barrier walls and horizontal assemblies have a fire resistance rating of
not less than two hours.
         3.   Generator and transformer rooms separated from the remainder of
the building by walls and floor/ceiling assemblies having a fire-resistance
rating of not less than 2-hours.
         4.   Rooms or area that are noncombustible construction with wholly
non-combustible contents.
         5.   Fire Service access elevators machine rooms and machinery spaces
         6.   Machine rooms, machinery spaces, controls rooms and control
spaces associated with occupant evacuation elevators designed in accordance
with Section 3008.
      (30)   Amend to read as follows: Section 904.12.2 System interconnection.
The actuation of the fire suppression system shall automatically shut down the
fuel or electrical power supply of the cooking equipment and all electrical
receptacles located beneath the exhaust hood. The fuel and electrical supply
shall be manual reset;
      (31)   Amend to read as follows: Section 907.2.8.2 Automatic smoke
detection system. An automatic smoke detection system that activates the
occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be
installed throughout all interior corridors serving sleeping units and at the
top of all enclose stairwells.
         Exception: An automatic smoke detection system is not required in
buildings that do not have interior corridor serving sleeping units and were
each sleeping unit has a means of egress door opening directly to an exit or to
an exterior exit access that lead directly to an exit.
      (32)   Amended to read as follows: Section 907.2.13.1.2 Duct smoke
detection. Duct smoke detectors complying with Section 907.3.1 shall be located
as follows:
         1.   In the main return air and exhaust air plenum of each air-
conditioning system having a capacity greater than 2,000 cubic feet per minute
(cfm) (0.94 m3/s). Such detectors shall be located in a serviceable area
downstream of the last duct inlet.
         2.   At each connection to a vertical duct or riser serving two or
more stories from a return air duct or plenum of an air-conditioning system. In
Group R-1 and R-2 occupancies, a smoke detector is allowed to be used in each
return air riser carrying not more than 5,000 cfm (2.4 m3/s) and serving not
more than 10 air-inlet openings.
         3.   Duct smoke detectors installed more than 10 feet above a finished
floor, above a ceiling, or on a rooftop shall be installed with remote test/
indicators in an approved location below and in proximity to the unit served.
      (33)   Amended to read as follows: Section 912.2.1 Visible location. Fire
department connections shall be located on the street side of buildings, fully
visible and recognizable from the street or nearest point of fire department
vehicle access or as otherwise approved by the code official. A weather-rated
horn/strobe connected to the fire detection or sprinkler system shall be
located not lower than 8 feet above the fire department connection and within
10 feet horizontally of the connection. The weather-rated horn/strobe must be
visible from the fire lane or street;
      (34)   Amended to read as follows: Section 1010.1.7 Thresholds.
Thresholds at doorways shall not exceed 3/4 inch (19.1 mm) in height above the
finished floor or landing for sliding doors serving dwelling units or 1/2 inch
(12.7 mm) above the finished floor or landing for other doors. Raised
thresholds and floor level changes greater than 1/4 inch (6.4 mm) at doorways
shall be beveled with a slope not greater than one unit vertical in two units
horizontal (50-percent slope).
         Exceptions: 1. In occupancy Group R-2 or R-3, threshold heights for
sliding and side hinged exterior doors shall be permitted to be up to 8 inches
(203 mm) in height if all of the following apply:
            1.1.   The door is not part of the required means of egress.
            1.2.   The door is not part of an accessible route as required by
Chapter 11.
            1.3.   The door is not part of an accessible unit, Type A unit or
Type B unit.
      (35)   Amend to read as follows: Section 1010.1.9.3 Locks and latches.
Locks and latches shall be permitted to prevent operation of doors where any of
the following exist:
         1.   Places of detention or restraint.
         2.   In buildings in occupancy Group A having an occupant load of 300
or less, Groups B, F, M and S, in places of religious worship, and exterior
decks allowed to have one exit where the exit access from the deck extends back
into the building, the main door or doors are permitted to be equipped with
key-operated locking devices from the egress side provided:
            2.1.   The locking device is readily distinguishable as locked.
            2.2.   A readily visible durable sign is posted on the egress side
on or adjacent to the door stating: THIS DOOR TO REMAIN UNLOCKED WHEN THIS
SPACE IS OCCUPIED. The sign shall be in letters 1 inch (25 mm) high on a
contrasting background.
            2.3.   The use of the key-operated locking device is revocable by
the building official for due cause.
         3.   Where egress doors are used in pairs, approved automatic flush
bolts shall be permitted to be used, provided that the door leaf having the
automatic flush bolts does not have a doorknob or surface-mounted hardware.
         4.   Doors from individual dwelling or sleeping units of Group R
occupancies having an occupant load of 10 or less are permitted to be equipped
with a night latch, dead bolt or security chain, provided such devices are
openable from the inside without the use of a key or tool.
         5.   Fire doors after the minimum elevated temperature has disabled
the unlatching mechanism in accordance with listed fire door test procedures.
      (36)   Amended to read as follows: Section 1011.5.2 Riser height and
tread depth. Stair riser heights shall be 7 inches (178 mm) maximum and 4
inches (102 mm) minimum. The riser height shall be measured vertically between
the nosings of adjacent treads. Rectangular tread depths shall be 11 inches
(279 mm) minimum measured horizontally between the vertical planes of the
foremost projection of adjacent treads and at a right angle to the tread’s
nosing. Winder treads shall have a minimum tread depth of 11 inches (279 mm)
between the vertical planes of the foremost projection of adjacent treads at
the intersections with the walkline and a minimum tread depth of 10 inches (254
mm) within the clear width of the stair.
         Exceptions:
            1.   Spiral stairways in accordance with Section 1011.10.
            2.   Stairways connecting stepped aisles to cross aisles or
concourses shall be permitted to use the riser/tread dimension in Section
1029.13.2.
            3.   In Group R-3 occupancies; within dwelling units in Group R-
2 occupancies; and in Group U occupancies that are accessory to a Group R-
3 occupancy or accessory to individual dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies;
the maximum riser height shall be 8 inches (203 mm); the minimum tread depth
shall be 10 inches (254 mm); the minimum winder tread depth at the walkline
shall be 10 inches (254 mm); and the minimum winder tread depth shall be 6
inches (152 mm). A nosing projection not less than 3/4 inch (19.1 mm) but not
more than 1-1/4 inches (32 mm) shall be provided on stairways with solid risers
where the tread depth is less than 11 inches (279 mm).
            4.   See Section 403.1 of the International Existing Building Code
for the replacement of existing stairways.
            5.   In Group I-3 facilities, stairways providing access to guard
towers, observation stations and control rooms, not more than 250 square feet
(23 m2) in area, shall be permitted to have a maximum riser height of 8 inches
(203 mm) and a minimum tread depth of 9 inches (229 mm).
      (37)   Amend to read as follows: Section 1503.4 Roof drainage. Design and
installation of roof drainage systems shall comply with Section 1503 of this
code shall be sized and discharge in accordance with the Plumbing Code. Unless
roofs are sloped to drain over roof edges, roof drains or scuppers shall be
installed at each low point of the roof. Roofs shall be sloped a minimum of 1
unit vertical in 48 units horizontal (2 percent slope) for drainage unless
designed for water accumulation in accordance with Section 1611.2 Ponding
Instability.
         Roof drainage water from a building shall not be allowed to flow over
adjacent private property or public sidewalks.
      (38)   Amend to read as follows: Section 1601.1 Scope. The provisions of
this chapter shall govern the structural design of buildings, structures, and
portions thereof regulated by this code.
         It shall not be the responsibility of the building official to
determine engineering requirements of this code. Exclusive of conventional
light-frame wood construction provisions referenced in Section 2308, the method
to resist loads as referenced in this chapter is the responsibility of a
structural engineer or other qualified design professional.
      (39)   Amend to read as follows: Section 1612.3 Establishment of flood
hazard areas. To establish flood hazard areas, the applicable governing
authority shall adopt a flood hazard map and supporting data. The flood hazard
map shall include, at a minimum, areas of special flood hazard as identified by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency in an engineering report entitled “The
Flood Insurance Study for the City of Fort Pierre” dated May 17, 2004, as
amended or revised with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) and related supporting data along with
any revisions thereto. The adopted flood hazard map and supporting data are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this section;
      (40)   Amend to read as follows: Section 1703.1 Approved agency. An
approved agency or the design professional of record shall provide all
information as necessary for the building official to determine that the agency
meets the applicable requirements specified in Sections 1703.1.1 through
1703.1.3;
      (41)   Insert the following: Section 1804.8 Grading permits required. A
Grading and Excavation Permit shall be required if the grading and excavation
work exceeds 100 cubic yards and is not directly required for the construction
of the structure requiring a building permit or if any of the conditions exist
as listed in City Ordinance Section Q-12-408. Refer to City Ordinance Section
Q-12-408 for Grading and Excavation Permit Grading and Excavation Plan
requirements;
      (42)   Amend to read as follows: Section 1807.1.4 Permanent wood
foundation systems: Permanent wood foundation systems shall be designed by a
qualified professional engineer and installed in accordance with AWC PWF.
Lumber and Plywood shall be treated in accordance with AWPA U1 (Commodity
Specification A, Use Category 4B and Section 5.2) and shall be identified in
accordance with Section 2303.1.9.1;
      (43)   Amend to read as follows: Section 1807.3 Embedded posts and poles.
Embedded posts and poles shall be designed by a qualified professional
engineer. Designs to resist both axial and lateral loads employing posts or
poles as columns embedded in the earth or concrete footings in earth shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with sections 1807.3.1 through 1807.3.3;
      (44)   Amend to read as follows: Section 1808.7.4 Foundation elevation.
The top of any exterior foundation shall extend above the elevation of the top
of the curb at centerline of the front property line not less than 12 inches
plus 2% of the distance from the back of curb to the closest point of the
foundation. If the street does not have a curb, the top of the exterior
foundation shall extend above the centerline of the road 18" plus 2% of the
distance from the property line to the nearest point on the foundation.
Alternative elevation of 24" above the existing grade prior to construction for
buildings that are located more than 50 feet from the front property line or a
drainage plan is submitted prepared by a professional engineer. At all
locations around the foundation the adjacent grade shall slope away from the
foundation at a slope not less than 20:1 for an elevation difference of a
minimum of 12 inches;
      (45)   Amend to read as follows: Section 1809.5 Frost protection. Except
where otherwise protected from frost, foundations and other permanent supports
of buildings and structures shall be protected from frost by one or more of the
following methods:
         1.   Extending footings below frost line of the locality. Frost line
is 42 inches below grade immediately adjacent to the structure.
         2.   Constructing in accordance with ASCE 32.
         3.   Erecting on solid rock.
         Exceptions: Free standing buildings meeting all the following
conditions shall not be required to be protected:
         1.   Assigned to Risk Category 1 (Table 1604.5).
         2.   Area of 1200 square feet or less for light framed structures. 600
square feet for other than light framed structures.
         3.   Eave height of 10 feet or less.
         4.   Does not contain water or sewer services.
      (46)   Insert the following: Section 1809.5.1 Frost protection of
concrete slab-on-grade. Non-load bearing concrete slab-on-grade located in the
interior of the continually heated buildings or structures with a use and
occupancy classification other than U shall be protected from frost by one or
more of the following methods:
         1.   Extending a continuous concrete wall below the frost line. Frost
line is 42" below grade immediately adjacent to the structure. The concrete
wall shall be a minimum thickness of 6 inches.
         2.   Extending an insulated wall or barrier with a minimum R-Value of
10 below frost line.
         3.   Insulation and turned down concrete slab-on-grade provided in
accordance with Section R403.3 of the 2015 Residential Code and the building or
structure interior temperature is maintained at a minimum of 64 degrees
Fahrenheit.
(Prior Code, § P-1-2)
(Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 933, passed - -; Ord. 1012, passed - -; Ord. passed
- -)
§ 150.02 ELECTRIC CODE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish the adoption of the
National Electrical Code so as to require that all buildings constructed within
the city are in conformance with this code and are wired in a proper manner to
ensure the prevention of fires.
(Prior Code, § P-2-1)
   (B)   There is hereby adopted that certain code known as the National
Electrical Code, as currently adopted and amended by the state’s Electrical
Commission in ARSD 20:44:22:01.
(Prior Code, § P-2-2)
(Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 1012, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-7, 9-33-4.1, 9-33-5 and 11-10-5
§ 150.03 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section shall be to adopt the state’s Plumbing
Code to guide the installation, alteration, materials and appliances used in
connection with plumbing work and the operation of all plumbing apparatuses
within the city.
(Prior Code, § P-3-1)
   (B)   There is hereby adopted that certain plumbing code known as the
Uniform Plumbing Code, as currently adopted and amended by the state’s Plumbing
Commission in ARSD 20:54:02:01.
(Prior Code, § P-3-2)
(Ord. 1012, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 36-25-16
§ 150.04 MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section shall be to adopt the International
Mechanical Code to guide the installation, alteration, repairs and replacement
of mechanical systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and/
or appurtenances, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, incinerators and other energy-related systems, within
the city.
(Prior Code, § P-6-1)
   (B)   There is hereby adopted that certain mechanical code known as the
International Mechanical Code, 2015 edition, as currently adopted and amended
by the state in ARSD 61:15:01:01.
(Prior Code, § P-6-2)
(Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 1012, passed - -)
§ 150.05 FIRE CODE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish the adoption of the
International Fire Code to ensure that any buildings constructed within the
city are in accordance with the International Fire Code in order to reduce the
potential of fires and protect the citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, § P-4-1)
   (B)   There is hereby adopted that certain code known as the International
Fire Code, as adopted by the State Department of Public Safety in ARSD 61:15:
01:01 et seq.
(Prior Code, § P-4-2)
(Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 1012, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-7, 9-29-1, 9-33-1, 9-33-4 and 9-33-4.1
DWELLING AND HOUSING STANDARDS
§ 150.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules and regulations
regarding the use of buildings and structures located within the city for
residential purposes. This subchapter is enacted to promote the health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community of the city by providing proper
standards regarding the type of structures that may be used as residential
premises, responsibilities of landlords and landladies and also provisions
establishing penalties for violators of this subchapter. Any building or
structure found to be in violation of this subchapter shall be considered a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § L-7-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-29-13 and 11-4-1
§ 150.21 DWELLING REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy or permit to be occupied as a dwelling any structure
which:
   (A)   Was not designed or converted for use as a human habitation;
   (B)   Does not have functional indoor plumbing (water supply and waste
disposal);
   (C)   Lacks structural integrity sufficient to bear normal snow loads,
prevent normal rainfall from entering and prevent access by rodents and other
non-domestic animals;
   (D)   Lacks ample wiring for normal electrical loads; or
   (E)   Has been condemned by the City Building Inspector or his or her
designee or supervisor.
(Prior Code, § L-7-2) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 11-4-1 and 11-4-7
§ 150.22 LANDLORD OR LANDLADY RESPONSIBLE.
   It is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure that the
requirements of §
150.21 of this chapter are met unless the tenant or lessee has wrongfully
caused noncompliance.
(Prior Code, § L-7-3) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 11-4-1 and 11-4-7
VACANT OR DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect and promote the public health,
safety and welfare by identifying vacant or dangerous buildings and structures,
determining the responsibilities of owners of vacant or dangerous buildings and
structures and providing for enforcement and correction, including removal or
destruction, of such buildings and structures.
(Prior Code, § L-3-101) (Ord. 936, passed - -; Ord. 968, passed - -)
§ 150.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure that is potentially
hazardous to persons or property, including, but not limited to, one that:
      (1)   Is in danger of partial or complete collapse;
      (2)   Has any exterior parts that are loose or at risk of falling;
      (3)   Has any parts, such as floors, porches, railings, stairs, ramps,
balconies or roofs, or parts thereof, that are accessible and that are either
collapsed, in danger of collapsing or unable to support the weight of normally
imposed loads; or
      (4)   Is not in compliance with building, plumbing or electrical codes,
or one which creates an attractive nuisance or other unsuitable hazardous
condition.
   OWNER. Those shown to be the owner or owners on the record of the County
Director of Equalization, those identified as the owner or owners on a vacant
building registration form, holder of an unrecorded contract for deed, a
mortgagee or vendee in possession, a mortgagor or vender in possession,
assignee of rents, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee, other person, firm or
corporation in control of the freehold of the premises or lesser state therein.
Any such person or corporation having ownership interest, whether divided or
undivided or jointly or severally, shall have a joint and several obligation
for compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   SECURED BY OTHER THAN NORMAL MEANS. A building secured by means other than
those used in the design of the building.
   UNOCCUPIED. A building which is not being used for a legal occupancy.
   UNSECURED. A building or portion of a building that is open to entry by
unauthorized persons without the use of tools.
   VACANT BUILDING.
      (1)   A building or portion of a building that is:
         (a)   Unoccupied and unsecured;
         (b)   Unoccupied and secured by other than normal means;
         (c)   Unoccupied and a dangerous building or structure;
         (d)   Unoccupied and condemned;
         (e)   Unoccupied and is in violation of city code or zoning; or
         (f)   Condemned and illegally occupied.
      (2)   The term VACANT BUILDING does not include any building under
construction pursuant to a valid permit which has been issued by the city and
during the period that permit is valid.
(Prior Code, § L-3-102) (Ord. 936, passed - -; Ord. 968, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-33-9
§ 150.37 VACANT OR DANGEROUS BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   Vacant or dangerous buildings or structures, as defined in this subchapter,
are declared to be a nuisance and prohibited.
(Prior Code, § L-3-103) (Ord. 936, passed - -; Ord. 968, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1, 9-29-13, 21-10-1 and 21-10-6
§ 150.38 NOTICE AND REMOVAL OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Public Works Department shall give written notification to the
owner of a building or structure that it has been determined to be vacant or
dangerous. Upon receipt of such written notification, the owner shall have ten
days to respond to the Public Works Department regarding the notification that
the building or structure is in violation of this subchapter and show good
cause why the building or structure is not dangerous or vacant and that the
city should not commence legal action to remove the nuisance. If the owner
fails to respond or if the owner does respond and the Public Works Department
determines the owner’s response to the condition is inadequate, the owner must
remove or discontinue the violation within the next 30 calendar days or provide
within that 30-calendar-day period construction plans prepared by licensed
professionals, including a construction schedule that shall not exceed 180
calendar days from the date of the notification for abating the violation.
   (B)   If the owner fails to correct or remove the violation or fails to
provide acceptable construction plans and a construction schedule prepared by
licensed professionals within the 30-calendar-day period for responding to the
notice of violation, or fails to appear or show good-faith effort in abating
the violation, the city may commence a civil action to abate and remove the
nuisance and shall be entitled to recover its entire costs incurred in doing
so.
(Prior Code, § L-3-104) (Ord. 936, passed - -; Ord. 968, passed - -; Ord. 1007,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 9-29-1
§ 150.39 INSPECTIONS.
   The city may inspect any building or structure for the purpose of enforcing
and determining compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § L-3-106) (Ord. 936, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1, 9-33-4.1 and 9-33-10
§ 150.40 ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to repeal, abolish or impair any
other existing remedies of the city.
(Prior Code, § L-3-107) (Ord. 936, passed - -; Ord. 968, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 9-29-1
§ 150.41 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A building that has suffered fire, flood or natural disaster damage
will be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter for not more than 90
days after the date of the event if the property owner submits a request for
exemption in writing to the city.
   (B)   This request must include the following information, supplied by the
owner:
      (1)   A description of the premises;
      (2)   The names and addresses of the owner or owners;
      (3)   A statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the building in an
expedient manner and setting out a timeline and plan for doing so; and
      (4)   The name of the insurer, if any, and a statement by such insurer
whether the cost of repair is to be in whole or in part by insurance benefits.
(Prior Code, § L-3-105) (Ord. 936, passed - -; Ord. 968, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 9-29-1
§ 150.42 APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   Appeals to the application of the codes adopted by §§
150.01 and
150.04 of this chapter may be brought in accordance with the appeals process of
the applicable code, as adopted in §§
150.01(B) and
150.04(B) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § L-3-110) (Ord. 936, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-4.1 and 11-10-5
EXPLOSIVE OR COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS STORAGE
§ 150.55 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to set rules and regulations regarding the
storage and inspection of combustible material located within the city.
(Prior Code, § P-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-33-1
§ 150.56 AUTHORITY.
   It is unlawful to store or keep more than 100 gallons of any combustible
liquid or liquefied petroleum gas at any single location in the city unless
enclosed in a tank or vessel designed for that purpose and installed and
utilized in compliance with state law and ARSD Ch. 61:15:03, Flammable Gases
and Liquids Blueprints.
(Prior Code, § P-5-2) Penalty, see §
150.99
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD Ch. 61:15:03.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-1, 34-38-23 and 34-38-38
§ 150.57 STORAGE GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful to keep or maintain any explosive, flammable liquid or
combustive material in any container other than one designed and designated for
such use. When purchased in containers, explosives or combustible materials
shall be maintained in the containers until immediately prior to use.
(Prior Code, § P-5-3) Penalty, see §
150.99
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD Ch. 61:15:03.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-1, 34-38-23 and 34-38-38
§ 150.58 PERMIT FOR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS FACILITIES.
   No proposed construction of a combustible liquid or liquefied petroleum gas
facility may begin until the applicant has obtained approval from the Council
and the Division of Commercial Inspection and Regulation of the state’s
Department of Commerce and Regulation has examined and approved the plans and
blueprints or drawings of the proposed construction.
(Prior Code, § P-5-4) Penalty, see §
150.99
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD Ch. 61:15:03:06.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-1, 34-38-23 and 34-38-38
§ 150.59 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   At the time of application for a building permit, the applicant shall submit
duplicate drawings or blueprints, which shall include structural, electrical,
plumbing and mechanical features and must contain information required by state
law in ARSD Ch. 61:15:03, Flammable Gases and Liquids Blueprints.
(Prior Code, § P-5-5)
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD Ch. 61:15:03.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-1, 34-38-23 and 34-38-38
§ 150.60 WAIVER PROCEDURES.
   In the event the proposed facility does not meet zoning or setback
requirements, the applicant shall then submit a written request to the Director
of Public Works or his or her designee requesting a hearing on the variance
request or zoning change before the proper board. The Director of Public Works
or his or her designee shall proceed with the hearings in accordance with
municipal code and state statute. No variance may be approved unless the
applicant has obtained easements from all affected landowners.
(Prior Code, § P-5-6)
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD Ch. 61:15:03:06 and 61:15:03:07.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13 and 9-33-1
§ 150.61 PERMIT HEARING.
   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall cause the
application to be heard by the City Council or Board of Adjustment and Appeals,
at which time the Council may adopt a resolution approving the building permit
for the facility conditioned upon the approval of all plans and Fire Code
regulations by the office of the State Fire Marshal. Upon execution of the
resolution by the Council conditionally approving the building permit, the
applicant shall submit a copy of the resolution and the plans and
specifications to the state’s Division of Commercial Inspection and Regulation
for its approval. Upon receipt of approval by the Division of Commercial
Inspection and Regulation, the building permit will be issued and construction
may begin.
(Prior Code, § P-5-7)
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD Ch. 61:15:03:06 and 61:15:03:07.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-1 and 9-33-6
§ 150.62 FACILITIES APPLICABLE TO §§ 150.55 THROUGH 150.99.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to facilities constructed after the
date specified in SDCL § 34-38-38. Any facility otherwise covered by this
chapter may be allowed only if it does not constitute a distinct hazard to life
or property.
(Prior Code, § P-5-8) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-33-1 and 34-38-38
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §§
150.20 through
150.22 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of §§
150.20 through
150.22 or regulation promulgated thereunder shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § L-7-4)
   (C)   Any person in violation of §§
150.35 through
150.42 of this chapter shall, in addition to those penalties contained in §§
150.35 through
150.42, be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each 30-day violation, failure, refusal or neglect to
comply with any provision of §§
150.35 through
150.42 shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § L-3-108)
   (D)   In addition to the provisions of §
150.38(B) of this chapter, an owner will be subject to a fine in the amount of
$200 and an additional fine of $200 for each calendar week thereafter that a
violation as set out in §
150.38 continues to exist without full abatement. The fines shall be imposed
beginning 40 calendar days after the date of the notification issued from the
Public Works Department.
(Prior Code, § L-3-104)
   (E)   Any person in violation of §§
150.55 through
150.62 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class Two misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day’s violation, failure, refusal or neglect to comply
with any provision of §§
150.55 through
150.62 or regulation promulgated thereunder shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § P-5-9)
(Ord. 936, passed - -; Ord. 968, passed - -; Ord. 1007, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 9-29-1
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Mailboxes on or adjacent to curbs or sidewalks
   
151.002   Disposal of snow
Sidewalks
   
151.015   Purpose
   
151.016   Sidewalk widths, locations and grades
   
151.017   Sidewalk obstructions
   
151.018   Adjacent and overhanging structures
   
151.019   Abatement of sidewalk hazards
Street Names and Numbers
   
151.030   Purpose
   
151.031   Definitions
   
151.032   City place names
   
151.033   Site numbers
   
151.034   Numbers within structures
   
151.035   Assignment of numbers for property or structures
   
151.036   Pubic way designations
   
151.037   Public way changes of name
Parking and Boulevard Areas
   
151.050   Purpose
   
151.051   Parking and boulevard areas
   
151.052   Trees and shrubbery in parking
Curb Lines and Grades
   
151.065   Purpose
   
151.066   Record of curb lines and grades; conformance with record
   
151.067   Failure to observe established curb lines and grades
   
151.068   Prospective curb lines
   
151.069   Public or business driveways across curb lines
   
151.070   Private driveways across curb lines
Excavation Affecting Streets
   
151.085   Purpose
   
151.086   Definitions
   
151.087   Excavation permit
   
151.088   Routing of traffic
   
151.089   Clearance for fire equipment
   
151.090   Protection of traffic and public safety
   
151.091   Protective measures, barricades and warning signs
   
151.092   Attractive nuisances to be guarded
   
151.093   Noise, dust and debris resulting from work
   
151.094   Removal and protection of utilities
   
151.095   Protection of adjoining property
   
151.096   Property lines and easements
   
151.097   Preserving monuments
   
151.098   Protection of watercourses
   
151.099   Care of excavated material
   
151.100   Breaking through pavement
   
151.101   Tunneling under pavement; boring under streets
   
151.102   Trenches in pipe laying
   
151.103   Backfilling
   
151.104   Cleanup as work progresses
   
151.105   Damage to existing improvements
   
151.106   Surface restoration; city’s right to restore
   
151.107   Prompt completion of work
   
151.108   Urgent work
   
151.109   Emergency action
   
151.110   Inspections
   
151.111   Maintaining drawings of underground structures
   
151.112   Provisions not applicable to city work
   
151.113   City to notify of work; permit limitations after work
   
151.114   Public service companies
   
151.115   Liability of city
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 MAILBOXES ON OR ADJACENT TO CURBS OR SIDEWALKS.
   Residents of the city may erect mailboxes on or adjacent to a municipal
street, curb or sidewalk. The existence, location and shape of any such mailbox
must be in compliance with the regulations set forth by the United States
Postal Service.
(Prior Code, § K-3-6) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-46-11
§ 151.002 DISPOSAL OF SNOW.
   The property owner, renter or person removing snow or ice from any sidewalk,
public or private driveway, parking lot or parking area shall not dispose of
accumulated snow and ice from such property in any of the following manners:
   (A)   Snow and ice shall not be deposited on any sidewalk;
   (B)   Snow and ice shall not be deposited so as to obstruct or interfere
with the passage or vision of vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
   (C)   Snow or ice shall not be deposited upon any public street or alley
except in the General Commercial District, where buildings are constructed on
the property line along any street and the city stockpiles and removes the snow
from the streets;
   (D)   Blocking the access to a fire hydrant; or
   (E)   Blocking the access to a mailbox.
(Prior Code, § K-3-7) (Ord. 979, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.999
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.015 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the rules and regulations
regarding the installation, replacement, construction and use of sidewalks
within the city.
(Prior Code, § K-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-45-1 and 9-46-1
§ 151.016 SIDEWALK WIDTHS, LOCATIONS AND GRADES.
   All sidewalks installed or replaced within the city upon public property
shall be located and constructed as herein provided.
   (A)   Location, width and grade construction standards shall be according to
the specifications on file within the Public Works Department.
   (B)   There shall be no steps, steep ramps or other design features which
might cause stumbling, impair wheelchair travel or render sidewalks difficult
to clear of snow, ice or other dangerous conditions.
   (C)   All sidewalks constructed after the effective date of this subchapter
shall have ramps cut at the corners of the block so as to accommodate
wheelchair travel.
(Prior Code, § K-3-2) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2 and 9-46-1
§ 151.017 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OBSTRUCTION. The prevention or impairment of passage on the sidewalk by
pedestrians or wheelchairs.
      SIDEWALK. A public way established for pedestrian and wheelchair travel.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct or cause obstruction of a
sidewalk or to permit a sidewalk bordering upon real property owned by that
person to be obstructed.
   (C)   Exceptions include the following.
      (1)   Goods delivered or to be shipped may be placed upon a sidewalk for
up to eight hours, provided that a route safely negotiable by wheelchair
traffic is provided around the obstruction in the immediate area of the
obstruction.
      (2)   Debris or precipitation deposited by snowstorm, wind, flood or
other natural phenomena, or by disaster such as fire or collision, shall be
removed within 48 hours of the time the sidewalk became obstructed.
(Prior Code, § K-3-3) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2 and 9-30-5
§ 151.018 ADJACENT AND OVERHANGING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to build, erect, place or
maintain over, across or upon any of the public streets, sidewalks or public
places of this city any awning, canopy or other structure, including signs,
whether attached to the adjoining building or not, without first obtaining
written permission from the city or its designated agent.
   (B)   (1)   ADJOINING OR ADJACENT shall mean that land immediately attached
to the public property over which such a structure is to be placed.
      (2)   Any person or persons desiring to place such a structure, or a
structure of any nature, over or upon any street, sidewalk or public place of
the city shall first make application to the city or its designated agent for
permission and a license to place such structure.
      (3)   Such application shall set forth the name of the owner and legal
description of the adjoining land, a description and drawing of the type of
structure and the type of construction materials to be used.
      (4)   Such application shall contain a statement, to be signed by the
applicant and the adjoining landowner, that such applicant and owner shall
assume complete responsibility and liability to third persons for any injury to
property or person occurring because of the placement or maintenance of said
structure over public land.
      (5)   Said applicant shall further furnish proof of liability insurance
in the sum of $100,000 per person and $300,000 aggregate.
      (6)   Every year upon the date of the original permit, the landowner or
occupant of the property shall furnish proof of such insurance to the city as
above set forth.
   (C)   Any owner or occupant of any building or lot adjacent to public
property upon or over which a structure, as above contemplated, is constructed
or maintained shall be liable for the design, erection and maintenance of such
structure and shall be solely responsible for same as to any injuries to third
parties, both as to their person or property, for any defects in such design
construction or maintenance of said structure.
(Prior Code, § K-3-4) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-7 and 9-30-3
§ 151.019 ABATEMENT OF SIDEWALK HAZARDS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for an owner of property abutting a public sidewalk to
cause or permit the accumulation of water, snow or ice upon such public
sidewalk to the extent that it poses a hazard or obstacle to persons lawfully
utilizing such sidewalk.
   (B)   (1)   It is the responsibility of the owner of property abutting a
public sidewalk to repair and maintain the sidewalk, keeping it free from
defects that cause unreasonable hazards for pedestrians or wheelchairs.
      (2)   Such unreasonably hazardous defects are:
         (a)   Horizontal and vertical separations of one inch or more;
         (b)   Holes or depressions of one inch or more and of at least four
inches in diameter;
         (c)   Spalling over 50% of the surface of a single panel (square) of
the sidewalk, with one or more depressions equal to one-half inch or more;
         (d)   A single square of sidewalk cracked in such a manner that no
part thereof has a piece greater than one square foot;
         (e)   A sidewalk with any part thereof missing to the full depth; or
         (f)   A lift, push or change from design or construction grade equal
to or greater than one inch per foot.
       (3)   A grout patch is only a temporary repair and does not meet
sidewalk standards.
   (C)   Upon receipt of actual notice of a hazardous accumulation of water,
ice or snow upon a public sidewalk or hazardous defect in need of repair, the
City Street Department shall notify the owner of the abutting land. If the
attempt is unsuccessful or the hazardous condition is not abated within 24
hours of the issuance of the notice, the City Street Department may provide for
the removal of the hazard and tax the expense thereof by special assessment
against the abutting property.
   (D)   This section neither provides for nor imposes any duty upon the city
to abate sidewalk hazards.
(Prior Code, § K-3-5) (Ord. 848, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.999
STREET NAMES AND NUMBERS
§ 151.030 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the city’s policy regarding
the location, naming and numbering procedure of streets, avenues, drives,
courts and lanes located in the city.
(Prior Code, § K-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-45-2 and 9-45-6
§ 151.031 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future and words in the singular number include the plural
number. The word SHALL is mandatory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AVENUE. Any rectilinear public way running continuously in an east-west
direction.
      COURT. Any cul-de-sac or other permanently terminated public way.
      DRIVE. Any curvilinear public way.
      LANE. Any renamed alley.
      PLAT. A map or representation of a piece of land subdivided into lots,
including streets, alleys, avenues, courts, drives and lanes.
      STREET. Any rectilinear public way running continuously in a north-south
direction.
(Prior Code, § K-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-45-2 and 9-45-6
§ 151.032 CITY PLACE NAMES.
   (A)   The maps below are hereby adopted as the official map of city streets
and place names.
   (B)   Said map shall be revised as necessary to reflect changes in names
accomplished by resolution or filing of plats.
 
(Prior Code, § K-1-3) (Ord. 817, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-45-2 and 9-45-6
§ 151.033 SITE NUMBERS.
   Each building site, existing structure, new structure or repartitioned
structure shall be numbered according to the following rules.
   (A)   The base axis for the address numbering system shall be Main Avenue
north-south and U.S. Highway 83 east-west.
   (B)   Beginning at the intersection of Main Avenue and U.S. Highway 83
(First Street), each block shall be numbered in consecutive hundredths-place
units beginning with 100 and shall continue, infinitum, according to the
following directional sequence.
      (1)   All address numbers within each block shall increase with the
distance away from the base axis.
      (2)   Building sites, existing structures, new structures or
repartitioned structures lying on the north or east side of any street shall
receive even-valued place numbers within each block, and shall begin with 02,
and shall continue by twos until the end of said block at increments of plus or
minus 50 feet; that is, 102, 104, 106 and so on.
      (3)   Building sites, existing structures, new structures or
repartitioned structures lying on the south or west side of any street shall
receive odd-valued place numbers within each block, and shall begin with 01,
and shall continue by twos to the end of said block at increments of plus or
minus 50 feet; that is, 101, 103, 105 and so on.
      (4)   In the case of blocks that are sufficiently greater in length than
the norm, these blocks shall be divided numerically into two blocks for
numbering purposes.
      (5)   Public ways designated as drives shall be numbered according to the
rules of divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) above.
      (6)   Cul-de-sacs shall be numbered according to the rules of divisions
(B)(1) through (B)(4) above. Cul-de-sacs that are wholly contained within one
block and are not the terminus of a street or drive shall be numbered so that
no deviation in the number chain on the side that the cul-de-sac is located
shall be created.
      (7)   Dead-end streets shall be numbered according to the rules of
divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) above, assuming that they will be continued at
a future date.
      (8)   Lanes shall be numbered according to the rules of divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(4) above, with the same place unit as the block within which it
lies.
   (C)   Exceptions to division (B) above are that Main Avenue, Second Avenue,
Third Avenue and Fourth Avenue east of U.S. Highway 83 shall start with 0 and
not progress to 100 until east of Deadwood Street.
(Prior Code, § K-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-45-2
§ 151.034 NUMBERS WITHIN STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Duplexes. Building address numbers shall be assigned to both units of
a two-family home.
   (B)   Row houses. A row house or townhouse development shall be treated
similarly to a duplex where the units front on a public way. Where the units do
not front on a public way, they shall be treated as apartments.
   (C)   Apartment and condominium buildings. Apartment and condominium
buildings with one main entrance shall use the number assigned to the frontage
interval opposite the entrance. If the building has more than one main entrance
fronting on a street, the number in line with each entrance should be used. The
apartment and condominium units themselves should be numbered consecutively
throughout the development.
   (D)   Apartment and condominium building complexes. An apartment and
condominium building or a cluster of buildings with several entrances off a
common courtyard, driveway or walk should use the address number in line with
the courtyard, drive or walk. The apartment and condominium units within shall
be numbered consecutively throughout the development.
   (E)   Mobile home courts. Mobile home courts shall be treated similarly to
apartment and condominium buildings. The individual units shall be numbered
consecutively. If a mobile home court is fronting a named street, each mobile
home in the court shall be addressed as if it were a single-family housing lot.
(Prior Code, § K-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-45-2
§ 151.035 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS FOR PROPERTY OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner of the property upon which any
building or structure shall be located to place upon said structure or upon the
property, in a manner clearly visible from the street, the numbering for said
property or structure as established by the city.
   (B)   The establishment of said numbers shall be as follows.
      (1)   In the event the owner of said property fails to install or display
the numbers as above required, the city shall first notify said owner of the
numbers assigned to that particular piece of property. Said owner shall then,
within ten days after mailing of said notice, establish, construct or erect
said numbers as to the designated property.
      (2)   In the further event that said owner shall fail to comply with said
notice as above provided, said owner who violates this section shall be
punished pursuant to §
151.999 of this chapter.
      (3)   In the alternative, the city may choose not to prosecute as above
set forth, but may choose to construct and display said numbers assigned on the
owner’s property, and all costs relating to such action shall be taxed and
constitute a lien upon said property.
      (4)   Upon the construction and display of said lettering by the city on
the owner’s property, the city shall file with the Register of Deeds such lien,
setting forth the description of the property, the actions taken and the cost
of the construction and display of said lettering, together with the date said
work was performed and the owner’s name. Said notice of lien shall further be
forwarded to said owner by certified mail at his or her last known address.
      (5)   Thirty days after filing said lien as above provided, said lien
shall draw interest at the rate of 12% per annum until fully paid or discharged
and shall constitute a lien upon said property.
(Prior Code, § K-1-8) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-1 and 9-45-2
§ 151.036 PUBIC WAY DESIGNATIONS.
   The city established the following type prefixes for all public ways
existing, and those that may be built in the future, as follows.
   (A)   A STREET shall be any rectilinear public way running continuously in a
north-south direction.
   (B)   An AVENUE shall be any rectilinear public way running continuously in
an east-west direction.
   (C)   A DRIVE shall be any curvilinear public way.
   (D)   A COURT shall be any cul-de-sac or other permanently terminated public
way.
   (E)   A LANE shall be any renamed alley.
(Prior Code, § K-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-45-1 and 9-45-2
§ 151.037 PUBLIC WAY CHANGES OF NAME.
   Public ways may be renamed only by ordinance or approved plat. No public way
shall be given a name similar either in sound or spelling to that of any
existing name.
(Prior Code, § K-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-45-2
PARKING AND BOULEVARD AREAS
§ 151.050 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the rules and regulations
regarding the placement of structures, trees and shrubbery within the rights-
of-way located within the city.
(Prior Code, § K-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Ch. 9-30
§ 151.051 PARKING AND BOULEVARD AREAS.
   Areas within city rights-of-way but outside the curb line shall be
maintained by the owner or tenant of the adjacent lot or lots. They shall be
kept free of hazardous conditions, weeds or overgrowth, and no structures or
fill may be placed upon or removed from the areas without prior written
authorization by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee by
operation of ordinance.
(Prior Code, § K-4-2) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2 and 9-30-5
§ 151.052 TREES AND SHRUBBERY IN PARKING.
   (A)   No trees or shrubbery may be planted within public rights-of-way
unless expressly approved in writing by the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee or unless the planting is done by the city.
   (B)   Any approval by the city shall be made by the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee and shall apply solely to a specified location and
planting. The Director of Public Works or his or her designee has the right to
base approval upon such conditions as may appear necessary to reduce hazards to
persons or traffic and interference with utilities.
   (C)   Any tree or shrubbery planted within public rights-of-way or
presenting a hazard or interfering with city power lines shall be approved by
the Director of Public Works or his or her designee following guidelines set
forth by the Planning and Zoning Commission and may be removed, destroyed or
trimmed by city employees, at no expense to the owner, at any time without
compensation to the owner.
(Prior Code, § K-4-3) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 9-30-2 and 9-38-2
CURB LINES AND GRADES
§ 151.065 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the policies regarding the
construction and maintenance of the curbs and gutters within in the city.
(Prior Code, § K-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-45-5
§ 151.066 RECORD OF CURB LINES AND GRADES; CONFORMANCE WITH RECORD.
   A record of curb lines and grades shall be maintained by the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee, and any curb and gutter hereinafter
installed or replaced within the city must conform to the established lines and
grades recorded in the Public Works Department.
(Prior Code, § K-2-2) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-45-5
§ 151.067 FAILURE TO OBSERVE ESTABLISHED CURB LINES AND GRADES.
   Any property owner installing curb who does not comply with the curb lines
and grades on file in the Public Works Department may be assessed against the
property the cost of replacement by the city.
(Prior Code, § K-2-4) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-45-5
§ 151.068 PROSPECTIVE CURB LINES.
   If it is established that no record of curb lines is on file in the Public
Works Department, a written letter of application accompanied by a copy of the
most recently recorded plat of the area shall be sent to the Director of Public
Works. The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall thereupon
establish such lines. The applicant shall be advised of this determination
within 30 days and may appeal this as any other decision of a city official.
(Prior Code, § K-2-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-45-5
§ 151.069 PUBLIC OR BUSINESS DRIVEWAYS ACROSS CURB LINES.
   Public driveways over or across curb lines for filling stations, public
garages, retail and wholesale business establishments shall not exceed 40 feet
in width, and where two driveways are constructed along one street line, there
shall be a minimum of 15 feet between each driveway, except as otherwise
approved by the City Council. No driveway shall be constructed within ten feet
of any block corner.
(Prior Code, § K-2-5) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.070 PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS ACROSS CURB LINES.
   Private driveways over and across curb lines shall not exceed 30 feet in
width, except as otherwise approved by the City Council, and such driveways
shall not be constructed within 15 feet of any block corner.
(Prior Code, § K-2-6) Penalty, see §
151.999
EXCAVATION AFFECTING STREETS
§ 151.085 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to establish rules and regulations
concerning the excavation within streets located within the city.
(Prior Code, § K-5-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.086 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future and words in the singular number include the plural
number. The word SHALL is mandatory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICANT. Any person making written application to the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee for an excavation permit hereunder.
      CITY. The City of Fort Pierre.
      CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Fort Pierre.
      EXCAVATION WORK. The excavation and other work permitted under an
excavation permit and required to be performed under this subchapter.
      LICENSE.
         (a)   Written permission from one landowner to an adjoining property
owner to enter upon such person’s land for the purpose of taking appropriate
protective measures to ensure that no injury to any adjoining property occurs
as a result of any excavation work as defined in this subchapter.
         (b)   If such LICENSE is not obtainable from the adjoining property
owner in a situation of immediate public emergency representing a threat to
public health and safety, the person performing such excavation work may obtain
a LICENSE from the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, which
LICENSE shall authorize him or her to enter the private premises solely for the
purpose of making the property safe.
      PERMITTEE. Any person who has been granted and has in full force and
effect an excavation permit issued hereunder.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
      STREET. Any street, highway, sidewalk, alley, avenue or other public way
or public grounds in the city.
(Prior Code, § K-5-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.087 EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig up, break, excavate, tunnel,
undermine or make or cause to be made any excavation in or under the surface of
any street for any purpose, or to place, deposit or leave upon any street any
earth or other excavated material obstructing or tending to interfere with the
free use of the street, unless such person, to include both contractor and
owner jointly, shall first have obtained an excavation permit from the Director
of Public Works or his or her designee and have paid the permit fee as per the
schedule provided in Ch. 110 of this code and notified the statewide “one call”
system.
(Prior Code, § K-5-3) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1, 9-45-1, 31-33-10 and 49-7A-14
§ 151.088 ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to ensure that during
the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions are maintained at
all times so as to cause as little inconvenience as possible to the occupants
of the abutting property and to the general public. The Director of Public
Works or his or her designee may permit the closing of streets to all traffic
for a period of time prescribed by him or her if, in his or her opinion, it is
necessary to reasonably protect the safety of residents, pedestrians or other
persons. The permittee shall route and control traffic, including his or her
own vehicles, as directed by the city law enforcement authority.
   (B)   The following steps shall be taken before any highway may be closed or
restricted to traffic.
      (1)   The permittee must receive the approval of the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee and the city law enforcement authority.
      (2)   The permittee must notify the Chief of the Fire Department of any
street so closed.
      (3)   Upon completion of construction work, the permittee shall notify
the Director of Public Works or his or her designee and the city law
enforcement authority before traffic is moved back to its normal flow so that
any necessary adjustments may be made.
      (4)   Where flaggers are deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee, they shall be furnished by the permittee at the
permittee’s own expense.
      (5)   Through traffic shall be maintained without the aid of detours when
possible. In instances in which this would not be feasible, the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee will designate detours. The city shall
maintain roadway surfaces of existing highways designated as detours at the
permittee’s expense. If there are no existing highways, the permittee shall
construct all detours at his or her own expense and in conformity with the
specifications of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
      (6)   The permittee will be responsible for any unnecessary damage caused
to any highway by the operation of his or her equipment.
(Prior Code, § K-5-4) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.089 CLEARANCE FOR FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire stations and fire hydrants. Materials or obstructions shall
not be placed within 15 feet of fire plugs. Passageways leading to fire escapes
or firefighting equipment shall be kept free of piles of material or other
obstructions.
(Prior Code, § K-5-5) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-30-1 and 9-33-11
§ 151.090 PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC AND PUBLIC SAFETY.
   The permittee shall at all times make the construction site safe and free
from health or safety hazards and shall provide all personnel, equipment and
materials as may be required for this purpose. Under emergency situations, the
permittee will be responsible for carrying out all emergency measures necessary
to maintain safe and healthful conditions at the site. Costs of equipment,
personnel and materials necessary to maintain healthy, safe conditions at the
site shall be the responsibility of the permittee. All work performed by the
permittee will be conducted in compliance with all applicable city, state and
federal health and safety requirements. In the event a street, alley or
sidewalk must be closed for public use, the permittee shall file a written plan
of the closing of said right-of-way with the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee prior to such closing. The plan shall include, but not be limited
to, alternate routes, barricades, construction signs and flashing lights
necessary to protect the traveling public.
(Prior Code, § K-5-6) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-45-1 and 9-51-1
§ 151.091 PROTECTIVE MEASURES, BARRICADES AND WARNING SIGNS.
   (A)   The permittee shall provide, erect and maintain all necessary
barricades, suitable and sufficient lights, danger signals, signs and all other
traffic-control devices and shall take all necessary precautions for the
protection of the work and safety of the public. Highways closed to traffic
shall be protected by effective barricades, and obstructions shall be
illuminated during hours of darkness. Suitable warning signs shall be provided
to properly control and direct traffic.
   (B)   The permittee shall erect warning signs in advance of any place on the
project where operations may interfere with the use of the road by traffic and
at all intermediate points where the new work crosses or coincides with an
existing road.
   (C)   All barricades, warning signs, lights, temporary signals and other
protective devices must conform with the current FHWA Manual on Uniform
Traffic-Control Devices (MUTCD).
(Prior Code, § K-5-9) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-30-2, 9-45-1 and 9-51-1
§ 151.092 ATTRACTIVE NUISANCES TO BE GUARDED.
   It shall be unlawful for the permittee to permit to remain unguarded any
place of excavation or opening or any machinery, equipment or other device
having the characteristics of an attractive nuisance likely to attract children
and be hazardous to their safety or health.
(Prior Code, § K-5-10) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.093 NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS RESULTING FROM WORK.
   (A)   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out the excavation work in such
manner as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general
public and occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take
appropriate measures to reduce, to the fullest extent practicable, noise, dust
and unsightly debris in conformance with all state and federal environmental
requirements.
   (B)   During the hours between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., no tool, appliance
or equipment producing noise of sufficient volume to disturb the sleep or
repose of occupants of the neighboring property during such time period shall
be used, except with the express written permission of the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee or in case of an emergency as herein otherwise
provided.
(Prior Code, § K-5-27) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.094 REMOVAL AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   The permittee shall give reasonable notice to the owner or owners of
public or privately owned utilities to ensure that the owner or owners of such
utility or other property may locate, remove or protect the same.
   (B)   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing utility easement
without the written consent of the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee and the utility company or person owning the utility easement. If it
becomes necessary to remove an existing utility, this shall be done by its
owner. No utility owned by the city shall be moved to accommodate the permittee
unless the cost of such work be borne by the permittee. The cost of moving
privately owned utilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee unless the
permittee makes other arrangements with the person owning the utility. The
permittee shall use every precaution to prevent harm or accident to property,
pipes, conduits, poles, wires or other apparatuses which may be in any way
affected by the excavation work and do everything necessary to support, sustain
and protect them under, over, along or across said work. If any of said pipes,
conduits, poles, wires or other apparatuses are damaged, they shall be repaired
by the agency or person owning them, and the expense of such repairs shall be
charged to the permittee, and his or her bond shall be liable therefore. The
permittee shall be responsible for any damage done to any public or private
property by reason of the breaking or damage of any water pipe, sewer, gas
pipe, electric conduit or other utility, and such person and his or her bond
shall be liable therefore.
(Prior Code, § K-5-7) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-45-1, 11-6-29 and 49-7A-2
§ 151.095 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person requesting an excavation permit as described in §
151.087 of this chapter who is excavating within an area determined by the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee to be within the public right-
of-way shall, before obtaining a permit, notify the abutting landowner of such
excavation and gain permission from the abutting landowner for said excavation.
Permission and written authorization from the abutting landowner must be
presented to the Director of Public Works or his or her designee by the
proposed excavator before any such excavation permit will be granted. If
permission is not granted by the abutting landowner and the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee deems the excavation to be considered an
emergency, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, at his or her
discretion, may allow the permit to be granted.
   (B)   Whenever it may be necessary for the permittee to trench through any
lawn area or any portion of the public right-of-way behind the curb, lawn
sprinkler systems shall be repaired if damaged and the sod shall be carefully
cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been backfilled as required in
this subchapter. All construction and maintenance work shall be done in a
manner calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth and debris and in a
condition as nearly as possible to that which existed before such work began.
The permittee shall not remove even temporarily any trees or shrubs which exist
in parking strip areas or easements across private property without first
having notified and obtained the consent of the property owner, or in the case
of public property, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § K-5-8) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-33-4, 9-45-1, 43-16-2 and 49-7A-14
§ 151.096 PROPERTY LINES AND EASEMENTS.
   Property lines and limits of easements shall be indicated on the plan of
excavation submitted with the application for the excavation permit. It shall
be the permittee’s responsibility to confine excavation work within these
limits.
(Prior Code, § K-5-13) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.097 PRESERVING MONUMENTS.
   The permittee shall not disturb any surface monuments or hubs found on the
line of excavation work unless ordered to do so by the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § K-5-28) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-30-1, 9-45-1, 43-18-3 and 43-18-4
§ 151.098 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   The permittee shall provide for the flow of all watercourses, sewers or
drains intercepted during the excavation work and shall replace the same in as
good condition as he or she found them, or shall make such provisions for them
as the Director of Public Works or his or her designee may direct. The
permittee shall not obstruct the gutter of any street, but shall use all proper
measures to provide for the free passage of surface water. The permittee shall
make provision to take care of all surplus water, mulch, silt, slickings or
other runoff pumped from excavations or resulting from sluicing or other
operations and shall be responsible for any damage resulting from its failure
to so provide. The disposal of any such water or other excess material shall be
in compliance with all city, state and federal environmental laws and not in
violation of city sewer regulations and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § K-5-15) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.099 CARE OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to a trench or in
any street shall be piled and maintained in compliance with city, state and
federal laws and city standards or as specified in a permit obtained from the
city.
(Prior Code, § K-5-11) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.100 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   Whenever it is necessary to break through existing pavement for excavation
purposes and where trenches are to be four feet or over in depth, the pavement
in the base shall be removed at least six inches beyond the outer limits of the
subgrade that is to be disturbed in order to prevent settlement, and a six-
inch shoulder of undisturbed material shall be provided in each side of the
excavated trench. The face of the remaining pavement shall be approximately
vertical. A saw shall be used so as to permit complete breakage of concrete
pavement or base without ragged edges. Asphalt paving shall be scored or
otherwise cut in a straight line. No pile driver may be used in breaking up the
pavement.
(Prior Code, § K-5-16) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.101 TUNNELING UNDER PAVEMENT; BORING UNDER STREETS.
   Tunnels under pavement shall not be permitted, except by permission of the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee, and if permitted, shall be
adequately supported by timbering and backfilling under the direction of the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee. Borings under city streets
shall not be permitted, except by permission of the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § K-5-17) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-30-1
§ 151.102 TRENCHES IN PIPE LAYING.
   Excavations of trenches shall be in compliance with city standards.
(Prior Code, § K-5-23) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.103 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Backfilling shall be done pursuant to city standards.
(Prior Code, § K-5-18)
   (B)   Backfill material used shall be in compliance with city standards.
(Prior Code, § K-5-19)
   (C)   Backfilling at the surface shall be in compliance with city standards.
(Prior Code, § K-5-20)
Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.104 CLEANUP AS WORK PROGRESSES.
   As the excavation work progresses, all streets and private properties shall
be thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris
resulting from such work. All cleanup operations at the location of such
excavation shall be accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be
completed to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee. From time to time as may be ordered by the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee, and in any event immediately after completion of said
work, the permittee shall, at his or her own expense, clean up and remove all
refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from said work; upon failure
to do so within 24 hours after having been notified to do so by the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee, said work may be done by the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee and the cost thereof charged to the
permittee, and the permittee shall also be liable for the cost thereof under
the surety bond provided hereunder.
(Prior Code, § K-5-14) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1, 9-30-2 and 9-45-1
§ 151.105 DAMAGE TO EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS.
   All damage done to existing improvements during the progress of the
excavation work shall be repaired by the permittee. Materials for such repair
shall conform with the requirements of any applicable code or ordinance. If,
upon being ordered, the permittee fails to furnish the necessary labor and
materials for such repairs, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
shall have the authority to cause said necessary labor and materials to be
furnished by the city, and the cost shall be charged against the permittee, and
the permittee shall also be liable on his or her bond therefor.
(Prior Code, § K-5-12) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.106 SURFACE RESTORATION; CITY’S RIGHT TO RESTORE.
   (A)   Restoration of the surface shall be in compliance with city standards.
(Prior Code, § K-5-21)
   (B)   (1)   If the permittee shall have failed to restore the surface of the
street to its original and proper condition upon the expiration of the time
fixed by such permit or shall otherwise have failed to complete the excavation
work covered by such permit, the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee, if he or she deems it advisable, shall have the right to do all work
and things necessary to restore the street and to complete the excavation work.
The permittee shall be liable for the actual cost thereof and for 25% of such
cost in addition for general overhead and administrative expenses. The city
shall have a cause of action for all fees, expenses and amounts paid out and
due it for such work and shall apply in payment of the amount due it any funds
of the permittee deposited pursuant to license requirements.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the permittee to guarantee and maintain the
site of the excavation work in the same condition it was prior to the
excavation for two years after restoring it to its original condition.
(Prior Code, § K-5-22)
Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.107 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   The permittee shall perform with diligence and expedition all excavation
work covered by the excavation permit and shall promptly complete such work and
restore the street to its original condition, or as near as may be, as soon as
practicable and, in any event, not later than the date specified in the
excavation permit therefor.
(Prior Code, § K-5-24) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.108 URGENT WORK.
   If, in the judgment of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee,
the safety or convenience of the traveling public or the public interest
requires that the excavation work be performed as emergency work, the Director
of Public Works or his or her designee shall have full power to order, at the
time the permit is granted, that a crew of workers and adequate facilities be
employed by the permittee 24 hours a day to the end that such excavation work
may be completed as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § K-5-25)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.109 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   In the event of any emergency in which a sewer, main, conduit or utility in
or under any street breaks, bursts or otherwise is in such condition as to
immediately endanger the property, life, health or safety of any individual,
the person owning or controlling such sewer, main, conduit or utility, without
first applying for and obtaining an excavation permit hereunder, shall
immediately take proper emergency measures to cure or remedy the dangerous
conditions for the protection of property, life, health and safety of
individuals. Such person owning or controlling such facility involved in an
emergency action shall first notify the state “one-call” system and then apply
for an excavation permit not later than the end of the next succeeding day
during which the Public Works Department is open for business and shall not
proceed with permanent repairs without first obtaining an excavation permit
hereunder.
(Prior Code, § K-5-26) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.110 INSPECTIONS.
   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall make such
inspections as are reasonably necessary in the enforcement of this subchapter.
The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall have the authority to
promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as may be
reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § K-5-29)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-14-27, 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.111 MAINTAINING DRAWINGS OF UNDERGROUND STRUCTURES.
   Users of subsurface street space shall maintain accurate drawings, plans and
profiles showing the location and character of all underground structures,
including abandoned installations. Corrected maps shall be filed with the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee within 30 days after new
installations, changes or replacements are made.
(Prior Code, § K-5-30) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.112 PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE TO CITY WORK.
   The provisions of this subchapter relating to permits shall not be
applicable to any excavation work under the direction of competent city
authorities by employees of the city or by any contractor of the city
performing work for and on behalf of the city necessitating openings or
excavations in streets. Openings or excavations in new pavement under this
section must first be approved by the City Council, except in cases deemed an
emergency by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § K-5-31)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.113 CITY TO NOTIFY OF WORK; PERMIT LIMITATIONS AFTER WORK.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council enacts any ordinance or resolution providing
for the paving or repaving of any street, the Director of Public Works or his
or her designee shall promptly mail a written notice thereof to each person
owning any sewer, main, conduit or other utility in or under said street or any
real property, whether improved or unimproved, abutting said street. Such
notice shall notify such persons that no excavation permit, other than for
emergency repairs, shall be issued for openings, cuts or excavations in said
street for a period of five years after the date of enactment of such ordinance
or resolution, except in extraordinary circumstances approved by the Council.
Such notice shall also notify such persons that applications for excavation
permits for work to be done prior to such paving or repaving shall be submitted
promptly in order that the work covered by the excavation permit may be
completed not later than 90 days from the date of enactment of such ordinance
or resolution. The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall also
promptly mail copies of such notice to the occupants of all houses, buildings
and other structures abutting said street for their information and to state
agencies and city departments or other persons that may desire to perform
excavation work in said city street.
   (B)   Within said 90 days, every public utility company receiving notice as
prescribed herein shall perform such excavation work, subject to the provisions
of this subchapter, as may be necessary to install or repair sewers, mains,
conduits or other utility installations. In the event any owner of real
property abutting said street shall fail within said 90 days to perform such
excavation work as may be required to install or repair utility service lines
or service connections to the property lines, any and all rights of such owner
or his or her successors in interest to make openings, cuts or excavations in
said street shall be forfeited for a period of five years from the date of
enactment of said ordinance or resolution. During said five-year period, no
excavation permit shall be issued to open, cut or excavate in said street
unless, in the judgment of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee,
an emergency as described in this subchapter exists which makes it absolutely
essential that the excavation permit be used and the permit is approved by the
Council.
   (C)   Every city department or official charged with responsibility for any
work that may necessitate any opening, cut or excavation in said street is
directed to take appropriate measures to perform such excavation work within 90
days from the date of enactment of an ordinance or resolution providing for the
paving or repaving of any street so as to avoid, if possible, the necessity for
making any openings, cuts or excavations in the new pavement in said city
street during said five-year period.
(Prior Code, § K-5-31) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.114 PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANIES.
   All persons operating public utilities in the city under franchises granted
by the city and having the right, either by general or special permission, to
enter upon streets and open and excavate pavements or sidewalks, or disturb the
surface thereof by excavation or other work, shall be required to apply for a
permit and shall be required to perform the work and bring it to completion as
promptly as practicable, and to that end, shall employ an adequate standing
force. Any person operating any such public utility shall comply with other
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § K-5-32) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.115 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   This subchapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the city or any
official or employee any liability or responsibility for damages to any person
injured by the performance of any excavation work for which an excavation
permit is issued hereunder, nor shall the city or any official or employee
thereof be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility by
reason of inspections authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit or the
approval of any excavation work.
(Prior Code, § K-5-33)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-1 and 9-45-1
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §§
151.001,
151.002 or
151.015 through
151.017 and
151.019 of this chapter shall be subject to a $50 fine. Each day of violation
shall constitute a separate offense subject to additional imposition of fines
in accordance with §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § K-3-8)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
151.018 of this chapter by failing to obtain a license as provided in §
151.018, or failing to properly construct or maintain any such structure as
contemplated by §
151.018, commits a Class Two misdemeanor each day said violation continues.
(Prior Code, § K-3-4)
(Ord. 979, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-7 and 9-30-3
CHAPTER 152: WEEDS AND TREES
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Removal of weeds
   
152.04   Neglecting to remove weeds
   
152.05   Trimming trees required; city trimming at owner’s expense
   
152.06   Removal of dead or diseased trees; public nuisance declared
   
152.07   Determination of disease
   
152.08   Nuisances prohibited
   
152.09   Inspection
   
152.10   Abatement of nuisances
   
152.11   Notice to abate
   
152.12   Abatement by city
   
152.13   Effect of abatement
   
152.14   Assessment of costs of abatement
   
152.15   Reporting of costs
   
152.16   Financing
   
152.17   Transportation of elm wood controlled
   
152.18   Sanitizing equipment
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the city by the requirement that all weeds and
overgrown trees be adequately maintained or removed or declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § L-2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 9-32-1 and 9-32-12
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROUND COVER. Planted or cultivated plants that do not exceed 18 inches in
height.
   OVERGROWTH. The growth of any plants to an extent that generally exceeds 18
inches in height for groundcover, or blocks the view from motor vehicles to a
degree that seriously impairs necessary vision from passing motor vehicles, or
grows in such a manner so as to provide a haven for undesirable animals.
   SHRUBBERY. Plants having a woody stem growing in hedge rows or clumps, not
exceeding six feet in width, used for privacy, decoration and wind shelter.
   TREES. Plants having a single woody trunk, normally reaching heights in
excess of ten feet.
   WEED. Any plant with undesirable characteristics, such as thorns or burrs,
offensive odor, pollen which causes extreme discomfort, irritating or poisonous
sap or components, parasitism or vining, entangling growths, or which competes
with lawns and other beneficial vegetation to the detriment of such vegetation,
the beneficial aspects of which are minor in relations to the negative
characteristics.
(Prior Code, § L-2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-12
§ 152.03 REMOVAL OF WEEDS.
   The owner of every lot or tract of land in the city shall remove all weeds
and eliminate overgrowth on said lot or tract of land.
(Prior Code, § L-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-12
§ 152.04 NEGLECTING TO REMOVE WEEDS.
   (A)   If any owner of any lot or tract of land within the city shall neglect
or fail to destroy such weeds or maintain all weeds less than ten inches in
height for the growing season, the weeds will be cut and destroyed by city
employees with the authority and under the direction of the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee. The cost thereof shall be charged to the lot or
parcel of ground upon which such weeds were destroyed and against the property
abutting upon the street from which weeds are cut by the city.
   (B)   The cost of the destruction of such weeds shall be the cost on file in
the City Finance Office, which cost shall be determined annually by the City
Council. Such lien shall accumulate interest at the rate of 18% per annum until
paid. The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall make a return
of such costs and shall file the same with the City Finance Officer or his or
her designee who, in turn, shall state the costs to be charged to each lot and
tract of land, and said tax shall be certified by the City Finance Officer or
his or her designee to the County Auditor or his or her designee, together with
other taxes, under a separate column headed for the destruction of noxious,
dangerous and unhealthy vegetation, and such taxes shall be collected as other
taxes in and for the city. The City Finance Officer or his or her designee
shall also file a tax lien with the County Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § L-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-12
§ 152.05 TRIMMING TREES REQUIRED; CITY TRIMMING AT OWNER’S EXPENSE.
   (A)   The occupant of any private premises, or the owner of the same if not
occupied, abutting on any public street, road or alley within the city shall
keep all trees standing upon such premises or between the same and the center
of the adjoining street, road or alley so trimmed that no bough or branch
thereof shall be lower than ten feet above the surface of the street, road or
alley, and eight feet over any sidewalk thereon, and shall keep all such trees
trimmed so that no trunk, limb or branch thereof shall in any way or at any
time come in contact with any street lighting, power or other electrically
charged wire when such wires are lawfully strung on posts located on any public
street, road or alley or between the lot lines and curb of any street.
   (B)   Upon the failure of any occupant or owner to trim such trees as in
this section provided, the city shall declare such trees to be a public
nuisance and shall have the authority to remove or cause to be removed, under
its supervision, any trunk, limb or branch of any tree that is, or in the
judgment of the city may at any time come, in contact with an electrically
charged wire or which shall extend or hang lower than ten feet above the
surface of any street, road or alley and eight feet over any sidewalk, whether
such trees be growing on privately owned property or on public property. The
cost thereof shall be charged to the lot or parcel of ground upon which such
trees were or are located. The cost of the removal of any trunk, limb or branch
shall be the cost on file in the City Finance Office, which cost shall be
determined annually by the City Council. Such lien shall accumulate interest at
the rate of 18% per annum until paid. The Director of Public Works or his or
her designee shall make a return of such costs and shall file the same with the
City Finance Officer or his or her designee, who shall certify the costs to be
charged to each lot and tract of land to the County Auditor, together with
other taxes, under a separate column headed for the destruction of trunk, limb
or branch, and such taxes shall be collected as other taxes in and for the
city. The City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall also file a tax
lien with the County Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § L-2-5) (Ord. 957, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-12
§ 152.06 REMOVAL OF DEAD OR DISEASED TREES; PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   The City Council does hereby determine that dead or diseased trees
within the corporate and territorial limits of the city located upon public and
private property would substantially depreciate the value of property within
said limits and impair the health, safety, general welfare and convenience of
the public. It is declared to be the intention of the City Council to require
the removal of dead or diseased trees.
(Prior Code, § L-2-6)
   (B)   The following are hereby declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Any living or standing tree or part thereof that is infected with
disease or any tree that is dead; and
      (2)   Any dead tree or part thereof, including logs, branches, stumps or
other material.
(Prior Code, § L-2-7)
(Ord. 955, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-13, 9-32-1 and 9-32-12
§ 152.07 DETERMINATION OF DISEASE.
   If the city is unable to determine with reasonable certainty whether or not
a tree in or upon private premises is infected with disease, the city is
authorized to remove or cut specimens from said tree and shall forward such
specimens for diagnosis and report to the Plant Pathology Department of the
South Dakota State University, and shall proceed as herein provided upon
receipt of a positive report from the University.
(Prior Code, § L-2-12) (Ord. 955, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-1
§ 152.08 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any public nuisance as defined in this chapter to
remain on the premises owned or controlled by him or her within the city.
(Prior Code, § L-2-8) (Ord. 955, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13 and 9-32-1
§ 152.09 INSPECTION.
   The city shall inspect or cause to be inspected all premises and places
within the city at least once each year to determine whether any public
nuisance as defined in this chapter exists thereon and shall also inspect or
cause to be inspected any tree reported to be dead or diseased.
(Prior Code, § L-2-9) (Ord. 955, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13 and 9-32-1
§ 152.10 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   If the city shall determine, upon inspection or examination, that any public
nuisance as herein defined exists in or upon any public street, alley or city
park, including the parking between curb and lot line, not abutting upon the
property of another governmental subdivision, the city shall immediately cause
it to be removed and burned or otherwise abate the same.
(Prior Code, § L-2-10) (Ord. 955, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13 and 9-32-1
§ 152.11 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   If the city shall determine, upon inspection or examination, with reasonable
certainty that any public nuisance as herein defined exists in or upon private
premises within the city, the city shall serve or cause to be served, either
personally or by United States certified mail, upon the owner of such property,
if he or she can be found, or upon the occupant thereof a written notice to
abate such nuisance within seven days of said notice for hazardous trees and 30
days of said notice for all other trees.
(Prior Code, § L-2-11) (Ord. 955, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13 and 9-32-1
§ 152.12 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the owner or occupant of the property upon which any nuisance exists in
violation of this chapter shall fail to abate such nuisance within the time
specified in the notice, the city shall cause the same to be removed and burned
or otherwise abated. No damages shall be awarded to the owner or occupant for
destruction of any tree or any part thereof pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § L-2-13) (Ord. 955, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 9-32-1 and 21-10-6
§ 152.13 EFFECT OF ABATEMENT.
   All abatements made under the provisions of this chapter shall be made in
such manner so as to destroy or prevent, as fully as possible, the spread of
disease or the insect pests or vectors known to carry such disease fungus.
(Prior Code, § L-2-14) (Ord. 955, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13 and 9-32-1
§ 152.14 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT.
   The costs of abating any public nuisance as defined in this chapter shall be
borne as follows.
   (A)   The entire cost of any abatement of a public nuisance as herein
defined on trees in or upon any public street, alley or city park, including
the parking between curb and lot line, not abutting upon property of other
governmental subdivisions shall be borne by the city.
   (B)   The cost of any abatement of a public nuisance as herein defined on
property belonging to another governmental subdivision, and upon the parking
between curb and lot line abutting upon the property of another governmental
subdivision, shall be borne and paid by the owner thereof.
   (C)   The cost of any abatement of a public nuisance as herein defined on
any private property shall be borne by the owner or owners of said property and
shall be assessed against said property as herein provided. If any part of a
tree constituting a nuisance hereunder shall be located on a property line, the
owners of said property on either side of said line shall share equally in the
cost of abatement.
(Prior Code, § L-2-15) (Ord. 955, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 9-32-1 and 21-10-6
§ 152.15 REPORTING OF COSTS.
   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall keep strict
account of the costs of work done under this chapter for which assessments are
to be made, stating and certifying the description of the land, lots, parts of
lots or parcels of land and the amounts chargeable to each. The Director of
Public Works or his or her designee shall include in his or her report to the
City Council the aggregate amounts chargeable to each lot or parcel as recorded
by him or her. The City Finance Officer or his or her designee shall thereupon
certify said account, showing the amount, the description of the property and
the owner thereof, to the County Auditor, who shall thereupon add such
assessment to the general assessment against said property to be collected as
municipal taxes for general purposes.
(Prior Code, § L-2-16) (Ord. 955, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 9-32-1 and 21-10-6
§ 152.16 FINANCING.
   The costs of the city in performing the functions required hereunder may be
financed from a special fund as authorized by state law, from general revenue
or other special funds, or from any combination of these sources.
(Prior Code, § L-2-17) (Ord. 955, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-13 and 9-32-1
§ 152.17 TRANSPORTATION OF ELM WOOD CONTROLLED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport within the city any bark-
bearing elm wood without first obtaining approval from the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § L-2-18) (Ord. 955, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13 and 9-32-1
§ 152.18 SANITIZING EQUIPMENT.
   All equipment used in pruning or otherwise working upon dead or diseased
trees shall be sanitized after such use.
(Prior Code, § L-2-19) (Ord. 955, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-1
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS
Section
General Sign Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Building permit required
   
153.04   Sign regulations generally
   
153.05   Nonconforming signs
   
153.06   License required
   
153.07   Exemptions from licensing requirement
Political Candidate and Election Signs
   
153.20   Purpose
   
153.21   Time limit for displaying
   
153.22   Sign regulations generally
GENERAL SIGN PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules and regulations
regarding the construction, use, placement and maintenance of signs located
within the city.
(Prior Code, § S-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-30-3
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING AREA. The total surface area capable of displaying letters,
words or symbols within a frame, and shall be determined from the outside edge
of the frame itself. The surface area of a sign composed of only letters, words
or symbols shall be determined from imaginary straight lines drawn around the
entire parameter, creating a rectangle capable of encompassing such grouping of
letters, words or symbols. Three-dimensional or multifaceted signs shall be
calculated as the maximum rectangular area visible from any single direction,
at any point in time, encompassing the entire object.
   BILLBOARD. A freestanding sign with an advertising area of more than 50
square feet but not more than 300 square feet which is supported by one or more
uprights, poles or braces in or upon the ground.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign with a maximum advertising area of 50 square
feet not located on the same property for which the advertisement is intended.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign with a maximum advertising area of 100 square
feet located on the same property for which the advertisement is intended.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign with a maximum square footage of 32 square feet and
which is not permanently anchored to the ground or permanently mounted to a
building, and which is capable of being moved from location to location.
   SIGN. Any permanent object, including its structure and component parts,
which is used or intended to be used to attract attention to the subject matter
for advertising or other purposes, and does not include paint on the surface of
a building relating to the activity conducted in the building.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign, banner, pendant, valance or other advertising
display constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, paper,
wallboards or other light materials, with or without frames, which may only be
displayed not more than 30 days within a calendar year.
(Prior Code, § S-3-1.1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-30-3
§ 153.03 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No sign, other than a temporary sign, billboard or off-premises sign, shall
hereafter be erected, re- erected, constructed, altered or maintained within
the zoning jurisdiction of the city unless a building permit, as established by
§
159.011 of this code, has been issued by the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee for the specific sign and location. No off-premises sign or
billboard may be issued a building permit without prior approval of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § S-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 9-30-3 and 9-33-4
§ 153.04 SIGN REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Height and location of sign.
      (1)   All signs that are within 100 feet of a public approach or
intersection shall be at least 20 feet away from the street, or the lowest part
of the sign shall be seven feet above the grade of the road, for traffic
visibility considerations.
      (2)   No sign may be located in a manner that obstructs or otherwise
interferes with the view of an official traffic sign, signal or device or that
may obstruct or interfere with a driver’s view of approaching, merging or
intersecting traffic.
   (B)   Sign illumination. All sign illumination shall be from the interior or
from a floodlight projection shielded to ensure that it will not shine directly
upon public rights-of-way and neighboring properties.
   (C)   Public right-of-way. No sign shall encroach upon or overhang any
public right-of-way. No sign shall be attached to any utility pole, light
standard, street sign or any other public facility.
   (D)   Condition and maintenance. All signs shall be maintained in good
condition. Every sign, together with all of its supports, braces, guys and
anchors, shall be kept in good repair and in a safe state of preservation. The
display surface of each sign shall be kept neatly painted or covered at all
times.
   (E)   Electrification. Electrification of all signs and billboards shall be
in compliance with the National Electric Code, as adopted in §
150.02.
   (F)   Billboards. All billboards shall have a maximum height from adjacent
grade of 36 feet, a maximum advertising area of 300 square feet, a minimum
ground clearance of eight feet, a minimum distance from residential zones of
200 feet, measured along the street, a minimum distance from other billboards
of 300 feet and a minimum distance from street intersection of 100 feet, as
measured from the right-of-way; the maximum number per parcel of property is
one.
   (G)   On-premises signs. All on-premises signs shall have a minimum ground
clearance of seven feet and a minimum distance from street intersection of 20
feet, as measured from the right-of-way.
   (H)   Off-premises signs. All off-premises signs shall have a maximum height
from adjacent grade of 15 feet, a maximum advertising area of 50 square feet, a
minimum ground clearance of seven feet, a minimum distance from residential
zones of 100 feet, measured along the street, and a minimum distance from a
street intersection of 20 feet, as measured from the right-of-way; the maximum
number per parcel of property is one.
(Prior Code, § S-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-30-3
§ 153.05 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Whenever an existing sign does not conform to the requirements of this
subchapter and is structurally altered, enlarged or replaced, the provisions of
this subchapter shall apply. Billboards that do not conform to the requirements
of this subchapter shall be removed, altered or replaced so as to fully conform
to the requirements of this subchapter within five years of the effective date
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § S-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-30-3
§ 153.06 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   In addition to the building permit required at the time of
construction, all off-premises billboards and off-premises signs shall be
licensed annually. Every person, firm, partnership or corporation owning an
off-premises billboard or off-premises sign shall procure a license for each
off-premises billboard and off-premises sign from the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee.
   (B)   The annual fee for such license shall be $0.20 per square foot of
advertising space or a minimum of $40. The permit shall be valid from the day
of issuance thereof to December 31 of the same calendar year.
(Prior Code, § S-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-30-3
§ 153.07 EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSING REQUIREMENT.
   The following signs shall be exempt from licensing provisions of this
subchapter: on-premises signs; official notices authorized by a court, public
body or public safety official; directional, warning or information signs
authorized by federal, state or local government; memorial plaques, building
identification signs and building cornerstones when made an integral part of
the building or structure; flag of a government or noncommercial institution;
religious symbols and noncommercial seasonal decorations appropriate to the
holiday season; real estate “for sale” signs, provided that all such signs
shall be located upon the property to which they apply and shall not have a
maximum advertising area greater than four square feet; and community event
message signs owned by a nonprofit civic organization or a governmental entity.
(Prior Code, § S-3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-30-3
POLITICAL CANDIDATE AND ELECTION SIGNS
§ 153.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules and regulations
regarding the placing of signs by political candidates within the city.
(Prior Code, § S-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-30-3
§ 153.21 TIME LIMIT FOR DISPLAYING.
   With the exception of bumper stickers placed on licensed motor vehicles, no
person shall place or display any political candidate or election issue sign on
public or private property prior to two weeks before any election, and all such
signs shall be removed within 24 hours of the election.
(Prior Code, § S-4-1.1) (Ord. 928, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-30-3
§ 153.22 SIGN REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Political candidate signs up to 32 square feet in size shall be
located in a business, commercial or industrial zone or may be displayed at the
principal campaign headquarters of a lawful political candidate at any time.
   (B)   Political candidate or election issue signs up to 32 square feet in
size, when located on their own rented or owned space of a vacant lot in a
business, commercial or industrial zone, may be displayed 30 days prior to an
election but must be removed within 24 hours of the election day.
   (C)   With the permission of the property owner, or the property owner
adjacent to the public right- of-way, political candidate or election issue
signs may be placed on private property or in the boulevard area of the street
right-of-way adjacent to private property for 30 days before any election,
provided the signs do not exceed three square feet in area and are removed
within seven days of the election day.
   (D)   With the permission of the adjacent property owner, political or
election issue signs not exceeding 32 square feet in size and placed in a
vehicle or on a trailer may park on public streets and in public parking lots
for 30 days before any election, provided all parking regulations are met and
the signs are removed within seven days of the election day.
   (E)   Political and election issue billboards may be displayed at any time
in commercial- or industrial- zoned areas of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § S-4-2) (Ord. 974, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1 and 9-30-3
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Districts where permitted; license application and issuance
   
154.03   Permit issuance for proposed park construction upon certain findings
   
154.04   License fee and revocation of license
   
154.05   All mobile homes to be in licensed mobile home parks
   
154.06   Responsibility of licensees and occupants or homeowners
   
154.07   Issuance of mobile home placement permits
   
154.08   Issuance of building permits for structures in mobile home parks
   
154.09   Annual inspection
Regulations and Restrictions
   
154.20   Requirements for mobile home parks
   
154.21   General housing requirements
   
154.22   Accessory uses
   
154.23   Space limitations for mobile home parks
   
154.24   Driveways, vehicular access, parking and lighting
   
154.25   Drainage, grading, underground wiring, fencing, playgrounds and other
requirements
   
154.26   Public right-of-way dedications
   
154.27   Utility dedications
   
154.28   Licensed mobile home parks
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   Since mobile homes have a special residential character of their own and may
have a significant effect upon the Comprehensive Plan for the development of
the city, particularly with regard to planning and establishment of the
sanitary and storm sewer lines, water lines, streets, traffic flow and other
safety and health considerations, it is in the public interest that guidance
over their planning be exercised by the City Council with the assistance of the
City Planning and Zoning Commission. For this chapter, the term mobile home and
manufactured home are interchangeable and have the same meaning.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-201)
§ 154.02 DISTRICTS WHERE PERMITTED; LICENSE APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Mobile home parks are permitted in One-Family Residential District D.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or operate within the zoning
jurisdiction of the city any mobile home park without a license therefor. All
mobile home parks in existence upon the effective date of this chapter shall,
within 30 days thereafter, obtain such a license. The license period shall be
from July 1 to June 30 annually, and all licenses shall expire on June 30.
   (C)   (1)   No lot or parcel of land shall be used for a new mobile home
park or the expansion of an existing park until and unless an application for a
license has been filed with the City Finance Officer or his or her designee,
reviewed by the City Planning and Zoning Commission and approved or denied by
the City Council at its discretion. All applications, plans, maps, designs,
specifications and drawings must be submitted in triplicate. License renewals
shall not require resubmission of plans after the initial filing.
      (2)   The application shall be signed by the owner and shall include the
following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant and/or manager or
operator, if different than the applicant;
         (b)   A plot showing the locations of present and proposed buildings
and driveways and proposed locations of units and sanitary conveniences;
         (c)   A copy of the plans and specifications of all proposed buildings
and improvements, except mobile homes, to include electrical wiring, water
service pipes, sanitary sewer pipes, storm sewer drainage, gas service pipes,
garbage, roads and sidewalks; and
         (d)   The location and legal description of the mobile home park.
   (D)   No changes may be proposed in a mobile home park without filing for an
adjustment to the original plan in the same manner required of the original
plan.
   (E)   Upon application for a transfer of the license, the City Council may
authorize a transfer of any mobile home park in compliance with all provisions
of this chapter.
   (F)    All Cateogory B mobile home parks must be in compliance with this
chapter except for §
154.20. All Category A mobile home parks must be in compliance with this
chapter except §§
154.23 through
154.27 inclusive. The expanded portion of a Category A mobile home park, beyond
the original boundaries, shall be a Category B mobile home park and shall
comply with this chapter except §
154.20. Category A mobile home parks shall be considered a nonconforming use,
as that term is defined, Ord. 336, (§
159.002 of this code), as amended.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-202) (Ord. - - , passed - -)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.03 PERMIT ISSUANCE FOR PROPOSED PARK CONSTRUCTION UPON CERTAIN FINDINGS.
   Upon the finding by the city that the proposed mobile home park will
constitute a development of sustained desirability, that it will not result in
an overintensive use of the land and that it will not result in undue traffic
hazards and not otherwise be detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of
the community, the city may issue a permit or permits for the proposed mobile
home park.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-203)
§ 154.04 LICENSE FEE AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The basic annual license fee for each mobile home park shall be $50.
The fee for transfer of this license, as provided in this chapter, shall be
$50. The City Council may revoke any license to maintain and operate a park
when the licensee has been found to violate any provision of this chapter.
Notification of listed violations must be given in writing to the licensee by
the City Council. A period of 90 days will be allowed from the date of
notification for the licensee to make necessary corrections, after which the
City Council may act to revoke the mobile home park license.
   (B)   Suspension, nonrenewal or revocation of a mobile home park license for
noncompliance with these provisions shall permit the city to discontinue
utility services provided by the city. Any mobile home park whose license has
been suspended, revoked, or not renewed ceases to be a mobile home park. No
application to resume a mobile home park may be approved without compliance
with the mobile home park provisions which are then presently in effect.
   (C)   After notice of noncompliance, the licensee may, within ten days,
request a hearing before the City Council. Failure to request a hearing allows
the city to suspend, revoke or terminate such license and discontinue utilities
until further notice.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-213) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 ALL MOBILE HOMES TO BE IN LICENSED MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   All trailer houses, mobile homes or manufactured homes of every type and
description within the area as described in §
159.001 of this code shall be located in a licensed mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-214) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEES AND OCCUPANTS OR HOMEOWNERS.
   (A)   Responsibility of the licensee. The mobile home park licensee will
operate said park in strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
will provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its related facilities,
roadways, drainageways, walkways, open spaces, utilities and equipment in good
repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (1)   The licensee will be responsible for numbering each lot or unit in
the mobile home park in a manner ensuring the visibility of the number from the
driveway.
      (2)   The licensee will be responsible to see that building permits are
secured for detached accessory buildings and attached entries or decks.
      (3)   The mobile home owner shall be responsible for securing all
permits, including moving and building permits.
      (4)   The licensee will be responsible for the proper placement of each
mobile home and notification to the city when new units are placed in
conformance with this chapter.
      (5)   The licensee will notify in writing the park occupants of all
applicable provisions of this chapter and inform them of their responsibilities
thereunder.
      (6)   The licensee will provide the city with the name, address and phone
number of the local park management.
   (B)   Responsibility of occupants or homeowners. The occupants or owner of
any mobile home will comply with all applicable requirements of this chapter
and will maintain the mobile home space, its facilities and equipment in good
repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (C)   Not required. No mobile home park shall be required to provide laundry
facilities, restrooms, showers or office buildings or require the owner,
manager or caretaker to live at the mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-208) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 ISSUANCE OF MOBILE HOME PLACEMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   It will be unlawful to allow any mobile home to be occupied in a
mobile home park unless the unit is situated on a mobile home space and a
placement permit issued as herein provided. The placement of the mobile home
shall conform to all ordinances in effect at the time of placement of the
mobile home. A placement permit will not be required for a seasonal- or
recreation-type mobile home, recreation vehicle or trailer that will be placed
in the mobile home park less than 30 days.
   (B)   (1)   It will be the duty of every mobile home owner to file an
application for a mobile home placement permit with the City Building Inspector
or his or her designee five days prior to the date of the placement of the
mobile home or trailer in a licensed park. The location of the mobile home in
the mobile home space shall be verified by the mobile home park owner. The City
Building Inspector or his or her designee will cause an inspection of the
mobile home space to be made to verify compliance of the unit’s placement with
the provisions of this chapter dealing with proper placement and mobile home
stands.
      (2)   It will be the responsibility of every mobile home park licensee to
advise every mobile home owner desiring to place his or her unit in said
licensee’s park that a placement permit must be obtained from the City Building
Inspector or his or her designee.
      (3)   The mobile home owner will have the responsibility of obtaining a
placement permit and paying the applicable fee as outlined in the building
permit fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-209) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.08 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS FOR STRUCTURES IN MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   The building permit shall be secured by the mobile home park owner or
his or her duly authorized representative. Building permits required by the
city in residential zoning shall apply to mobile home parks. Failure of the
mobile home park owner to secure the required building permit would result in
the notation of a violation in the annual inspection report and the possibility
of forced removal of the said structure. If a violation is noted, the
procedures for enforcement of the building permit provisions will be in effect.
   (B)   All attached buildings shall conform to the provisions in effect at
the time of construction of the mobile home park. All accessory buildings shall
be located at least seven and one-half feet from other accessory buildings and
mobile homes.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-210) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 ANNUAL INSPECTION.
   An annual inspection by the City Building Inspector or his or her designee
will be made of all mobile home parks. The inspection includes a review of any
complaints received by the city in regards to the operation of the mobile home
park during the previous year. The inspection also includes a determination of
conformity or nonconformity of city ordinances. Failure to make all corrections
within 30 days of written notice by the city of noncompliance may result in
suspension of the mobile home park license.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-212)
REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 154.20 REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
    A Category A mobile home park shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   All parks shall be located on a well-drained site, properly graded to
ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
   (B)   Mobile home park spaces existing prior to the effective date of this
chapter shall have a minimum of 1,500 square feet per space. All spaces must be
clearly defined and marked.
   (C)   Each mobile home shall be placed such that no portion of the original
mobile home or any portion of any attachment to the original unit shall be
closer than ten feet from any other original mobile home or attachment thereto.
No portion of the original mobile home or any portion of any attachment to the
original unit shall be located closer than six feet from any adjoining private
property line bounding the mobile home park.
   (D)   All mobile homes shall abut upon a driveway of not less than 24 feet
in width, which shall have unobstructed access to a public street or highway;
all driveways shall be all-weather surfaced, well marked in the daytime and
lighted at night. One off-the-public-right-of-way parking space must be
available at each mobile home space.
   (E)   Underground utilities shall be required in all mobile home parks,
except for those mobile home parks constructed and currently licensed prior to
the effective date of this chapter.
   (F)   An electrical outlet supplying at least the volt and amperage rating
of the service panel in the unit shall be provided for each mobile home space.
   (G)    Each mobile home space shall have municipal water and sanitary sewer
services in compliance with the state’s Plumbing Code as adopted in  §
150.03.
   (H)   All mobile homes must be properly skirted and approved by the Public
Works Director or his or her designee.
   (I)   Junk, as defined in Ord. 671 and §
93.02 of this code, shall not be allowed to accumulate in the mobile home park.
   (J)   All mobile homes within the mobile home park shall be occupied and
properly connected to municipal water, sewer and electric services.
   (K)   No mobile home within a mobile home park may be utilized as a business
building as defined in §
93.02 of this code and Ord. 671.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-101) (Ord. - -, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
154.99
Cross-reference:
   Plumbing Code, §
150.03
§ 154.21 GENERAL HOUSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Mobile home units constructed after June 18, 1976, must conform and be
maintained to the current manufactured home construction and safety standards
established by Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Mobile homes constructed
prior to June 18, 1976, must be maintained in a sound condition, weather-tight
and habitable. All mobile homes must be inspected and be in compliance with
this section prior to placement.
   (B)   All mobile homes must comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The skirting, exterior walls and roof must be substantially
weather-tight;
      (2)   Every exterior deck, stairway, and handrail must be maintained in
safe and sound condition and in compliance with the current Building Code set
forth in §
150.01; and
      (3)   The exterior of all mobile homes will be inspected annually.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-211) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.22 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the permitted
uses in the district, and provided that such use shall conform to all
performance standards set forth for this district.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-204)
§ 154.23 SPACE LIMITATIONS FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed two stories or 28
feet.
   (B)   Required area for a mobile home space. Mobile home spaces shall be
provided consisting of a minimum of 5,000 square feet for each space.
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. The accumulated floor area of a mobile
home unit and its accessory structures shall not exceed one-half, or 50%, of
the respective lot area.
   (D)   Yards required.
      (1)   The front and rear of any mobile home shall not be located closer
than 30 feet from any other mobile home or from any service building within the
mobile home park. The side of any mobile home shall not be closer than 30 feet
from any other mobile home within the mobile home park. All mobile homes shall
be required to be located a minimum of 25 feet from all exterior boundaries of
the mobile home park. All accessory buildings, decks, lean-tos and the like
shall be located at least seven and one-half feet from other accessory
buildings or adjacent park space lot lines.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals will allow no variances from
the requirements in this section.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-205) (Ord. - -, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.24 DRIVEWAYS, VEHICULAR ACCESS, PARKING AND LIGHTING.
   (A)   All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a driveway of not less than 40
feet in width which shall have unobstructed access to a public street or
highway, and the sole vehicular access shall not be by an alley, and all dead-
end driveways shall include adequate vehicular turning space.
   (B)   All driveways within the mobile home park shall be all-weather with a
dust-free surface course and lighted at night with electric lamps of not less
than 150 watts each, spaced at intervals of not more than 150 feet, or by a
lighting plan approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
   (C)   A minimum of two off-driveway or off-the-public-right-of-way car
parking spaces with an all- weather, dust-free surface course shall be provided
for each mobile home space.
   (D)   The area of the mobile home stand shall be improved to provide
adequate support for the placement and tie-down of the mobile home as
determined by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee. Anchors and
tie-downs shall be placed at least at each corner of the mobile home stand.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-206) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.25 DRAINAGE, GRADING, UNDERGROUND WIRING, FENCING, PLAYGROUNDS AND OTHER
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The mobile home park shall be located on a well-drained site, properly
graded to ensure rapid drainage.
   (B)   Each mobile home park shall provide a separate, grassed-ground
recreation area of not less than 200 square feet per mobile home space. This
division (B) may be waived if the mobile home park is within 400 feet of an
existing park or playground.
   (C)   All utilities in the mobile home park shall be placed underground. An
electrical outlet meeting or exceeding the design capacity of the unit, but not
less than 220 volts and 200 amperes, shall be provided to each mobile home
space.
   (D)   Each mobile home space shall have water and sanitary sewer service in
compliance with the state’s Plumbing Code as adopted in §
150.03.
   (E)   Covered garbage cans shall be provided in quantities adequate to
reasonably meet the needs of the residents of the mobile home park.
   (F)   Each mobile home space must be within 400 feet of a fire hydrant, and
all parks shall have adequate fire protection in full compliance with city
ordinances and the International Fire Code as adopted in §
150.05.
   (G)   Each mobile home park shall provide a separate security-fenced and
lighted area of not less than 400 square feet per mobile home space for the
storage of extra vehicles (boats, RVs and the like) unless driveways are a
minimum of 50 feet wide or lots are 7,500 square feet or larger.
   (H)   There shall be 20-foot utility easements provided to the city at
locations as called for on the mobile home park construction plans.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-207) Penalty, see §
154.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire Code, see §
150.05
   Plumbing Code, see §
150.03
§ 154.26 PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY DEDICATIONS.
   If all streets within a mobile home park are in compliance with all
provisions in this chapter, meet all requirements of §§
151.001,
151.002,
151.015 through
151.019,
151.030 through
151.037,
151.065 through
151.070 and
158.170 through
158.182 of this code which are not in conflict with this chapter and satisfy
those construction standards of the state’s current version of the Department
of Transportation Standard Specifications for Roads and Bridges, approved by
the Director of Public Works, the owner of the mobile home park may request
that the city accept public dedication of said streets. Materials shall be
tested in place. The request shall be referred to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for review. Following review, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall recommend to the City Council acceptance or rejection of the dedication
and the reasons therefor. Upon a showing to the satisfaction of the City
Council that dedication of streets within a mobile home park is in the best
interests of the city, the city may accept public dedication of all streets,
free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the property and public
improvements thus dedicated.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-216) (Ord. 845, passed - -; Ord. 932, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Ch. 11-4
§ 154.27 UTILITY DEDICATIONS.
   If all sewer, water and electrical utility improvements within a mobile home
park are in compliance with this chapter and meet all requirements of §§
50.20 through
50.30 and
158.195 through
158.204, and of
Ch. 52 through
54, of this code which are not in conflict with this chapter and are located in
the public right-of-way, with the exception of the electric utility, the owner
of the mobile home park may request that the city accept public dedication of
said improvements. The request shall be referred to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for review. Following review of all necessary plans, specifications,
test results and engineering reports, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
recommend to the City Council acceptance or rejection of the dedication and the
reasons therefor. Upon a showing to the satisfaction of the City Council that
dedication of all sewer, water and electrical utility improvements within a
mobile home park is in the best interests of the city, the city may accept
public dedication of said improvements, free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances on the property and public improvements thus dedicated.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-217) (Or. 845, passed - -; Ord. 932, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Ch. 11-4
§ 154.28 LICENSED MOBILE HOME PARKS.
TABLE OF LICENSED MOBILE HOME PARKS LISTED BY CATEGORY
Name/title Legal description
TABLE OF LICENSED MOBILE HOME PARKS LISTED BY CATEGORY
Name/title                          Legal description
Category A mobile home park          
Wagon Wheel Acres                   Lot R-1A and R-1B of Lot R-1, located in
                                    the SW4 2-4-31, Stanley County.
                                    J&T Properties Outlot 1, a replat of a
J&T Properties LLC                  portion of Lots 1, 2, & 4 Shiflet
                                    Subdivision, City of Fort Pierre.
                                    Block 141 Lots 1-6 & 19-24 and Block 154
Kenzy Brother Properties LLC        Lots 1-6 and vacated alley and west half of
                                    vacated 4th Street, City of Fort Pierre.
                                    Block 12 S 79 Lots 1-2, S 79 of W20 Lot 3,
Park Meadows Mobile Home Court      E 5 Lot 3 & All of Lots 4-8 City of Fort
                                    Pierre.
                                    Block 31 Lots 24-34 & Lots 43-50 and
Ricketts Mobile Home Court          Vacated Alley and Block 31 Relicted Lots A
                                    & 8, City of Fort Pierre.
Riverside Mobile Home Court         Block 5 Lots 9-23 and Block 6 Lots 9-2,
                                    City of Fort Pierre.
Smith Mobile Home Court             Block 91 Lots 11 & 23-26, City of Fort
                                    Pierre.
Baldwin & Fridley Mobile Home Court Block 146 Lots 7-11 & remainder Lot 12 and
                                    S1/2 vacated Ash Ave., City of Fort Pierre.
                                    Quinten Sutley Subdivision, City of Fort
Teton River Mobile Home Court       Pierre and a portion of SW4 SW4 3-5-31,
                                    Stanley County.
Schaefer Mobile Home Court          Blk 90 Lots 20-21, City of Fort Pierre.
Frost Mobile Home Court             Block 31 Lots 21-23, City of Fort Pierre.
Category B mobile home parks         
River Bluff Estates                 Young's Outlot 1 Lot A, Sec. 20, City of
                                    Fort Pierre.
(Ord. - -, passed - -)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, trust, partnership or corporation
to violate any of the provisions of this chapter. Any violation is punishable,
upon conviction, by a fine not to exceed $100 and imprisonment not to exceed
five days. A separate offense is committed each day that a mobile home park is
operated in violation of this chapter. The fine imposed by this section is in
addition to any specific penalty or sanction imposed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-9-215)
CHAPTER 155: TRAVEL PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   Zoning districts permitting travel parks
   
155.03   License required; license fees; guest registry
   
155.04   Insurance
   
155.05   Liability
   
155.06   Building permit required for creation or expansion
   
155.07   Nonconforming travel parks
   
155.08   Expansion of nonconforming travel parks
   
155.09   Recreational camping units in residential zoning districts
   
155.10   Sensitive areas and unstable lands
   
155.11   Inspections
   
155.12   Appeals
Regulations and Restrictions
   
155.25   Principal permitted uses
   
155.26   Accessory uses
   
155.27   Certain uses declared incompatible and excluded
   
155.28   Area regulations
   
155.29   Accessory buildings and structures
   
155.30   Building and zoning codes
   
155.31   Campsite numbering
   
155.32   Internal vehicular circulation
   
155.33   Signage
   
155.34   Parking
   
155.35   Camping cabins
   
155.36   Bedding and linen
   
155.37   Pet kennels and control of animals
   
155.38   Fireplaces and cooking shelters
   
155.39   Fire protection
   
155.40   Comfort stations and service buildings
   
155.41   Swimming pools and spas
   
155.42   Lighting
   
155.43   Drainage
   
155.44   Sewer and water
   
155.45   Industrial pretreatment
   
155.46   Solid waste removal
   
155.47   Vermin control
   
155.48   Property maintenance
   
155.49   Junk cars and nuisances
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following definitions shall apply within the jurisdiction of city,
including the extraterritorial. Words defined by SDCL § 34-18-1 have the same
meaning when used in this chapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CAMPING CABIN. Any structure or building that is used to accommodate
overnight sleeping guests and is dependent on a service building for restroom
fixtures.
      CAMPING UNIT. Any trailer, tent camper, camper, camping cabin, tent,
recreational park trailer or other equipment that may be used by the traveling
public at individual campsites located at campgrounds or areas used by the
public as campgrounds.
      CAMPSITE. A specific parcel of land in a campground intended for
occupancy and used by a single camping unit.
      COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A system that is regulated by the Department of
Agriculture and Natural Resources that meets the requirements set forth in ARSD
Ch. 74:04:12.
      DEPARTMENT. Either the Department of Public Works, the state’s Department
of Health, the Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources and other
entities that have jurisdiction.
      DESIGNATED AGENT. The City Public Works Director or designated
representative.
      EGRESS WINDOW. A window of sufficient size to meet the requirements of
the Building Code as adopted in §
150.01.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY-CERTIFIED LABORATORY. A laboratory which
meets the requirements outlined in ARSD Ch. 74:04:07. EPA is an acronym for
Environmental Protection Agency.
      INSPECTION. An objective examination of a campground by the Department to
review the employee practices, sanitary conditions and health standards in
accordance with SDCL Ch. 34-18 and this chapter.
      PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A water system that serves a campground, food
service establishment or lodging establishment that is not a public water
system regulated by the Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
      PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system that is regulated by the Department of
Agriculture and Natural Resources that meets the requirements set forth in ARSD
Ch. 74:04:12.
      SANITARY DUMP STATION. A facility used for the removal and disposal of
wastes from a camping unit holding tank and that has a water connection for the
necessary flushing of the tanks and area; a SANITARY DUMP STATION is not
associated with a single campsite and is available to all occupants of the
travel park.
      SDDOT. Acronym for the South Dakota Department of Transportation.
      SERVICE BUILDING. A structure housing toilet, lavatory and bathing
facilities.
      TEMPORARY LODGING. The same individual or individuals occupying the
travel park for periods of 180 days or less in any calendar year.
      TRAVEL PARK. A business operation occupying a plot of ground primarily
for camping units, camping cabins and camping facilities by persons. TRAVEL
PARK is also known as a CAMPGROUND or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-100) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.02 ZONING DISTRICTS PERMITTING TRAVEL PARKS.
   (A)   Travel parks are permitted by conditional use in the following zoning
districts with the special conditions indicated below and additional
requirements as specified by the Planning and Zoning Commission and City
Council:
      (1)   General Commercial Zoning District.
         (a)   Shall be compatible with the adjacent operations;
         (b)   Shall be fully screened from view from the adjacent properties;
         (c)   No parking of recreational camping units in public rights-of-
way; and
         (d)   Travel park shall have access to an improved public road.
      (2)   Highway Commercial Zoning District.
         (a)   Shall be compatible with the adjacent operations;
         (b)   Shall be fully screened from view from the adjacent properties;
         (c)   No parking of recreational camping units in public rights-of-
way;
         (d)   Travel park shall have access to an improved public road; and
         (e)   SDDOT-approved access from state highways or access to travel
park is from city streets.   
      (3)   Industrial Zoning District.
         (a)   Shall be compatible with the adjacent operations;
         (b)   Shall be fully screened from view from the adjacent properties;
         (c)   No parking of recreational camping units within the public
rights-of-way; and
         (d)   Travel park shall have access to an improved public road.
      (4)   Park and Riverfront District.
         (a)   Shall be compatible with the adjacent operations;
         (b)   Shall be fully screened from view from the adjacent properties;
         (c)   No parking of recreational camping units within the public
rights-of-way; and
         (d)   Travel park shall have access to an improved public road.
      (5)   Planned Development District.
         (a)   Shall be permitted by the planned unit development by laws and
covenants, if any;
         (b)   Shall be compatible with the adjacent operations;
         (c)   Shall be fully screened from view from the adjacent properties;
         (d)   No parking of recreational camping units within the public
rights-of-way; and
         (e)   Travel park shall have access to an improved public road.
      (6)   Residential Zoning Districts. Travel parks are not permitted.
   (B)   Upon receiving a conditional use permit, a travel park must also
obtain an annual license as indicated in §
155.03 of this chapter.
   (C)   The conditional use shall be valid for the period of time specified by
the Planning and Zoning Commission but not exceed ten years, at which time, the
owner of the property shall reapply for a continuation of the conditional use
permit. If the owner has not constructed or operated the travel park for a
period of 12 months from the date of the approval of the conditional use, the
conditional use permit shall be terminated. Reapplication for a conditional use
permit shall be required.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-101) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; LICENSE FEES; GUEST REGISTRY.
   (A)   In order to operate a travel park within the city, the owner of the
travel park shall obtain an annual license. To obtain or renew a travel park
license, the operator must provide proof of insurance and construct, maintain
and operate the travel park in accordance with this chapter and other city
ordinances that may apply. The license application shall be provided by the
Finance Officer. The application will be reviewed by the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee, and issue or deny the license. The application
shall be due by January 30 of each year the travel park is in operation. The
fee for obtaining a travel park license shall be as indicated in §
110.25 of this code, related to fees assessed by the city.
   (B)   A guest registry must be maintained and accurate, with contact
information for each guest that stays at the travel park. Each travel park is
required to maintain these records for three years. Periodic inspection by the
city will be conducted. A review and verification of the registry will be
required to renew a license. For any licensed travel park found not to be in
compliance, there shall be a reinspection fee as provided in §
110.25 of this code. This reinspection fee shall be charged each time a travel
park is reinspected. Travel parks shall be in compliance with all the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   All travel park licenses shall begin on May 1 of each year and expire
on April 30 of the following year.
   (D)    Renewal of license is not automatic or guaranteed. Each travel park
must reapply for a license each year and provide a copy of the previous year’s
guest registry. The Public Works Department will maintain a record of
violations and complaints received regarding a licensed campground. If the
campground has more than ten minor violations, as determined by the Public
Works Director, in any calendar year or a single major violation that risks
life and property, the license will be terminated or not renewed.
   (E)   The license for the operation of a travel park shall be terminated
upon written notice from the city for continual violations of this chapter or
negligence by the travel park owner that jeopardizes the health and safety of
the residents of the travel park or the residents of the city.
   (F)   Travel park license fees are nonrefundable.
   (G)   Temporary camping permits for placement of camping units on private
property, other than residential districts, not in a licensed travel park may
be issued for special occasions and holidays only. The permits shall be
obtained from the Public Works Director or his or her designee a minimum of 48
hours in advance of the first date of stay.
      (1)   No payment transaction shall be made for use of the temporary
campsites.
      (2)   Temporary campsites shall be located 50 feet from the front
property line and 15 feet from adjacent properties.
      (3)   Temporary camping permits shall not exceed four calendar days in
length in any 30- calendar-day period. Not more than four camping units shall
be permitted on each zoning lot.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-104) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The travel park shall be required to obtain and maintain an insurance
policy and provide proof of insurance coverage when obtaining the travel park
permit and license. All insurance policies shall list the city as an additional
insured.
   (B)   The following minimum insurance coverages shall be required.
 
Property Insurance (Incident/ General Liability Insurance  Other Insurance
Aggregate)                    (Incident/Aggregate)
$1 million/$2 million         $1 million/$2 million        Per state statute
 
   (C)   Other insurance which may be required per state statute before a
license will be issued may include:
      (1)   Workers’ compensation;
      (2)   Vehicle insurance; and
      (3)   Swimming pool liability insurance.
   (D)   Other insurance may be necessary depending on permitted uses, location
and other risk factors.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-105) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.05 LIABILITY.
   The city and representatives of the city acting in good faith shall not be
held liable personally or as an entity for any damage occurring to persons and
property as a result of any act, or by reason of an act or omission, in the
discharge of official duties or for the operation of the travel park.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-106) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.06 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CREATION OR EXPANSION.
   A building permit is required for every new travel park or expansion of a
travel park. The building permit shall be obtained at the city office. Separate
permits are required for plumbing, electrical and grading within the travel
park. All work shall comply with the building, plumbing, electrical and
mechanical codes as adopted in §§
150.01 through
150.04.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-201) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.07 NONCONFORMING TRAVEL PARKS.
   A legal but nonconforming travel park or accessory structure existing at the
time of the adoption of this chapter may be continued and maintained, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. Signage, space numbering and fire lane
markings shall conform to the provisions of this chapter at all times.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-401) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.08 EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING TRAVEL PARKS.
   Travel parks shall not be expanded in area or by number of spaces without
first being in compliance with this chapter and other chapters of the city
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-402) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.09 RECREATIONAL CAMPING UNITS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Travel parks are not permitted in residential zoning districts. Not
more than one recreational camping unit can be placed on each zoning lot within
a residential zoning district per §
159.157 of this code. No payment of any kind shall be exchanged for placing the
recreational camping unit on the zoning lot. Tents placed in the rear yard
space are exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   The recreational camping unit in a residential zoning district may
only be occupied for periods not to exceed seven calendar days in any 30-
calendar-day period. The recreational camping unit shall be for use by friends
or family members of the occupants of the zoning lot only. Special permit must
be obtained from the City Office for additional units or extended occupation.
   (C)   Recreational camping units may be parked in the public right-of-way in
accordance with §
72.06 and
Ch. 74, Schd. II, of this code. Parking and occupying a recreational camping
unit in the public right- of-way shall require a temporary camping permit, and
the duration shall not exceed four calendar days per 30-calendar-day period.
   (D)   Permits for additional recreational camping units may be obtained from
the Director of Public Works or his or her designee for special circumstances
and holidays. The number of recreational camping units shall not exceed four
recreational camping units per zoning lot, and the length of stay of the
additional units shall not exceed four calendar days per 30-calendar-day
period.
   (E)   Manholes shall not be used as a sewer connection or dump station.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-403) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.10 SENSITIVE AREAS AND UNSTABLE LANDS.
   No travel park shall be approved for location on any land having unstable
soils, geologic hazards or other features which may create hazards to the
property or to the health and safety of the occupants as determined by the
Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-302) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.11 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director or his or her designee are authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of travel parks located
in the city’s planning and zoning jurisdiction in order that he or she may
perform his or her duties of safeguarding the health and safety of occupants of
the travel park.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee and/or the Building Official or
his or her designee shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any
travel park for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating
to the enforcement of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the owner or
occupant of the travel park or the person in charge thereof to give the Fire
Department free access to such travel park at reasonable times for the purpose
of inspections.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-404) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.12 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person directly affected by a decision, notice or order of the
code official under this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals, provided that a written application for appeal is filed
with the City Building Official or his or her authorized designee within 30
days after the day the decision, notice or order was served. An application for
appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this chapter or the
rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of this chapter do not fully apply or the requirements of this
chapter are adequately satisfied by other means.
   (B)   Appeals of notice and orders (other than imminent danger notices)
shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order until the appeal is heard by
the Appeals Board.
   (C)   All hearings before the Board shall be open to the public. The
appellant, the appellant’s representative, the code official, any member of the
city staff or any person whose interests are affected shall be given an
opportunity to be heard.
   (D)   The decision of the code official shall only be modified or reversed
upon a majority vote of the members present. The decision of the Board shall be
final.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-406) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 155.25 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Camping units;
   (B)   Camping cabins;
   (C)   Campsites; and
   (D)   Temporary lodging.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-102) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.26 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   The construction, maintenance and use of swimming pools;
   (B)   Outdoor cooking and dining;
   (C)   Storage buildings for equipment used by the travel park owner for
maintenance of the travel park;
   (D)   Storage facilities for the owners of the camping units for the
duration of the stay within the travel park for the purpose of storing boats,
vehicles and other equipment used while occupying a campsite within the travel
park;
   (E)   Playgrounds;
   (F)   Boat and fishing docks;
   (G)   Boat ramps; and
   (H)   Swimming beaches.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-103) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.27 CERTAIN USES DECLARED INCOMPATIBLE AND EXCLUDED.
   There are to be no permanent skirting, decking, storage buildings or any
other permanent structures allowed in a campsite.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-203) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.28 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Campsites, except tent sites, shall not be less than 1,000 square feet
per campsite and not more than ten campsites per acre of land. Tent sites shall
not be less than 500 square feet, which does not include vehicle parking space.
   (B)   Designated spaces for camping units, main and accessory structures and
playground equipment shall be set back from exterior property boundaries per
the area regulations in the applicable zoning district. Setbacks shall not be
less than ten feet.
   (C)   Camping units shall be separated from adjacent camping units, main and
accessory structures and playgrounds by not less than 15 feet.
   (D)   Camping units shall be set back from fire lanes by not less than 15
feet. Camping units, main and accessory structures and playground equipment
within the travel park shall not exceed height restrictions per the applicable
zoning district.
   (E)   Spaces for dependent camping units shall be located within 300 feet of
toilet, washroom and bath facilities. Spaces for self-contained camping units
operating as such may be located more than 300 feet of toilet, washroom and
bath facilities.
   (F)   Screening such as solid fencing, hedges, trees or other means shall be
provided when the travel park abuts residential property. Buffering and
screening shall be required if the travel park is located in or adjacent to a
residential zoning district. The purpose of a buffer is to reduce visual,
noise, light and incompatibility impacts. The need and extent will be
determined on an individual case-by-case basis. Buffering or screening may be
achieved by installing walls, fences or live plantings. All plantings shall be
maintained in a healthy living condition for the life of the travel park. All
buffering and screening shall be a minimum of six feet in height and shall be
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Natural screening/buffering is
encouraged.
   (G)   Nonconforming travel parks must meet chapter compliance within 30 days
from the date notice of noncompliance is issued. Time extensions for compliance
may be granted upon submission of proof of hardship and determination by the
Public Works Director or his or her designee that additional time is required.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-202) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.29 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Accessory garages, carports, sheds, swimming pools and decks are
permitted for park and recreation operation only.
   (B)   Storage buildings may be constructed to store the vehicles and
personal property of the individuals staying at the travel park. Individuals
utilizing these storage units shall not occupy beyond the length of their stay
at the travel park.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-204) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.30 BUILDING AND ZONING CODES.
   (A)   Building permits will be required for all structures not exempt by the
Building Code as adopted in §
150.01.
   (B)   The travel park shall not be exempt from any zoning requirements or
regulations of the zoning district in which the travel park is located.
   (C)   Any building permit exemptions allowed by the current building and
zoning codes, or any other code adopted by the city, shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-205) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.31 CAMPSITE NUMBERING.
   Campsite numbers shall be not less than four inches in height, placed at the
same location for each space, readily visible from fire lanes.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-211) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.32 INTERNAL VEHICULAR CIRCULATION.
   (A)   (1)   Internal roadways shall provide access to the campsites in the
travel park. Travel park roadways shall have all-weather surfacing and provide
a well-drained surface compatible to adjacent roadways. All roads within the
travel park shall be maintained by the owner to the standards as specified in
this chapter.
      (2)   The roadway shall meet the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   Entrance and all two-way roads (no parking): 25 feet;
         (b)   One-way (no parking): 16 feet; and
         (c)   On-road parking: an additional ten feet of surfacing shall be
added to the street width on each side of the street on which “on-street
parking” is desired.   
   (B)   All interior travel park roads shall be private roads owned and
maintained by the owner or operator of the travel park. All roads shall be open
for access at all times to authorized city officials, law enforcement and other
emergency vehicle access.
   (C)   All travel park roads shall be surfaced with gravel surfacing, crushed
rock, asphalt surfacing, concrete surfacing or other suitable material approved
by the Public Works Department.
   (D)   Approaches and other points of ingress and egress with city rights-of-
way shall be in compliance with the city road standards and be acceptable to
the Public Works Department. Points of ingress and egress located on state
highways shall be in accordance with the state’s Department of Transportation
regulations.
   (E)   New or altered internal roadways shall be designed by a professional
engineer licensed in the state. Roadway alignment and grades shall be in
accordance with the AASHTO Design Guidelines for Very Low-Volume Local Roads.
Rural or urban design will be acceptable.
   (F)   Fire lanes shall be constructed and maintained as per the current Fire
Code as adopted in §
150.05. Driving surfaces shall be able to withstand the loads of vehicular
traffic and fire services apparatuses.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-208) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Code, see §
150.05
§ 155.33 SIGNAGE.
   The entrance to each row within a travel park shall have a directional sign
with a minimum of four- inch numbers indicating the space numbers in each row.
Each travel park shall display an identification sign containing the name,
phone number and address of the travel park. Advertising signs within the
travel park shall be subject to the provisions of the current Sign Code adopted
by the city.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-210) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.34 PARKING.
   There shall be established and maintained within each park two accessory
vehicle parking spaces per campsite. There shall also be one additional
accessory vehicle parking space per ten campsites for use by guests. Guest
parking spaces shall be located at convenient locations within the travel park.
Guest parking on public streets will not be permitted.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-305) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.35 CAMPING CABINS.
   Any structure that is provided for use by overnight guests and physically
secured to the ground on a foundation system shall meet the following
requirements.
   (A)   Each camping cabin shall have not more than two sleeping rooms.
   (B)   Each sleeping room shall either directly exit to the outside or be
equipped with an operable egress window. Each egress window shall have at least
a net clear opening of five and seven-tenths (5.7) square feet and shall be at
least 24 inches high and at least 20 inches wide. The egress window shall open
from the inside of the guest room without the use of any special tool or
knowledge. The egress window shall have a finished height of not more than 48
inches above the floor. For camping cabins constructed before July 1, 2009,
each grade-level egress window shall have at least a net clear opening of five
square feet and shall be at least 24 inches high and at least 20 inches wide.
   (C)   Each floor, wall and ceiling shall be constructed of durable,
nonabsorbent, easily cleanable materials and cleaned and sanitized between
guests.
   (D)   Each mattress provided shall be protected or covered with an
impermeable cover to prevent the infestation of pests and filth.
   (E)   A hardwired or battery-operated smoke detector shall be provided in
each camping cabin.
   (F)   No bathroom facility may be provided in the camping cabin.
   (G)   Each window and opening to the outside that is not a door shall be
screened to prevent the entrance of vermin and insects.
   (H)   Any fuel-fired heating equipment located inside the camping cabin
shall be inspected at least once a year by a person in the business of heating
system maintenance. A written verification of the inspection shall be kept on
file in the campground with the date of the inspection, a written statement by
the person making the inspection and that person’s signature.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-312) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.36 BEDDING AND LINEN.
   If a trailer park owner or operator furnishes linens for use by a guest
using the camping cabin, the owner or operator shall furnish each guest with
clean sheets and pillowcases for the bed, bunk or cot to be occupied by the
guest. Sheets shall be of sufficient width and length to cover the mattress
completely. Any bath linen, sheets and pillowcases used by one guest shall be
washed and mechanically dried before being furnished to another guest. Any
bedding, including mattress, mattress pad, quilt, blanket, pillows, sheets and
spreads, and all bath linen shall be kept clean, in good repair and stored in a
sanitary manner. Separate laundry containers shall be provided for clean and
soiled laundry. Any soiled linen, uniforms and other garments shall be kept
separate from clean linen to prevent cross-contamination. Any clean linen shall
be stored on smooth, nonabsorbent, cleanable surfaces located a minimum of six
inches above the floor.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-313) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.37 PET KENNELS AND CONTROL OF ANIMALS.
   Any pet kennel or compound, if provided, shall be operated and maintained in
a clean, sanitary and safe manner. No owner or person in charge of an animal
may permit it to run at large or to become a nuisance within the limits of a
campground or the adjacent property. If leaving an animal kenneled in a travel
trailer, it is the occupant’s responsibility to leave his or her contact
information with the registration desk/people in case of an emergency or
disturbance.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-311) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.38 FIREPLACES AND COOKING SHELTERS.
   (A)   Where public fireplaces, cooking shelters or similar facilities for
open fires or outdoor cooking are provided by the travel park, they shall be so
located, constructed, maintained and used so as to minimize fire hazards and
smoke nuisance within the park and in adjoining areas. Fuels used in outdoor
fireplaces and grills must be restricted to wood, gas or charcoal. Private
grills provided by the campers that utilize LP shall be required to have LP
tanks secured to prevent overturning. Individual LP tank capacities shall not
exceed 100 pounds (20 gallons).
   (B)   The travel park shall comply with the Fire Code as adopted in §
150.05.
   (C)   If the travel park provides a LP refill site, the refill site shall be
located within an explosion- proof shelter or be located 50 feet from any
campsite or public building. The bulk LP tank and refill station shall be
operated, maintained and inspected in accordance with state regulations.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-209) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.39 FIRE PROTECTION.
   Portable fire extinguishers shall be provided in an accessible area for use
and shall be maintained in an operable condition. Each fire extinguisher shall
be rated a minimum of 2A10BC, shall be not more than 400 feet from any
campsite, must be maintain operational and must be accessible to the public at
all times.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-308) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.40 COMFORT STATIONS AND SERVICE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Each travel park containing ten or more sites shall be required to
construct and maintain a comfort station/service building.
   (B)   The travel park comfort station/service building shall consist of
men’s and women’s toilet and shower facilities. Toilet and bathing facilities
must meet the Plumbing Code as adopted in §
150.03. Each room containing a sanitary or laundry facility must have sound-
resistant walls extending to the ceiling between male and female sanitary
facilities. Each floor, wall and ceiling shall be constructed of light-colored,
smooth, nonabsorbent, durable and easily cleanable material. Each concrete,
brick or pumice block shall be finished and sealed to provide a smooth, flat,
easily cleanable surface. Each floor, wall and ceiling in the service building
shall be kept clean and in good repair. Each toilet, lavatory and bathing
fixture shall be kept clean, sanitary and in good repair. Each restroom fixture
shall be cleaned and sanitized daily, or more often as needed. Each cleaner,
sanitizer and disinfectant shall comply with 40 C.F.R. § 180.940. Each room
shall have at least one screened window that can be easily opened or a
mechanical device that ventilates the room. Each fixture shall be maintained in
good repair. Each opening for ventilation or entrance shall be kept screened at
all times to prevent the entrance of insects and vermin into the facility. Each
service building room shall be equipped with non-glare lighting to provide at
least ten foot candles on all surfaces, except those used for reading, shaving
or the application of cosmetics. For these areas, a minimum of 30 foot candles
shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-309) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
Cross-reference:
   Plumbing Code, see §
150.03
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 36-25-15
§ 155.41 SWIMMING POOLS AND SPAS.
   (A)   Each swimming pool, spa or other similar recreational facility shall
comply with requirements in the Recommended Standards for Swimming Pool Design
and Operation, most current edition, Great Lakes-Upper Mississippi River Board
of State and Provincial Public Health and Environmental Managers. The owner or
operator of a swimming pool, spa or other water recreational facility shall
collect and submit at least one water sample weekly for each swimming pool, spa
or other water recreational facility under the owner’s or manager’s control to
an EPA-certified laboratory for bacteriological analysis. A copy of the daily
log and weekly water sample results taken shall be kept on- site of the
facility and available for inspection at all times.
   (B)   The owner or operator shall report any unsafe water sample test
results to the Public Works Department within three days after receipt of the
test results. Upon receipt of a positive water sample, the owner or operator of
the facility shall submit two consecutive negative samples to the Public Works
Department to confirm treatment procedures have eliminated the contamination.
If a resample test is positive, the owner or operator of the facility shall
close the affected water recreational facility and submit two consecutive
negative samples prior to allowing guests use of the affected water
recreational facility.
   (C)   A colorimetric test kit shall be used for the monitoring and adjusting
of disinfectant levels and pH in a swimming pool, spa or any other water
recreational facility. The owner or operator of the facility shall maintain a
daily log of disinfectant levels and pH.
   (D)   Swimming pools shall be grounded in accordance with the Electrical
Code as adopted in §
150.02.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-310) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.42 LIGHTING.
   Adequate lighting for the safe movement of both pedestrians and drivers
shall be provided throughout the facility.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-314) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.43 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Travel parks shall make adequate provisions for stormwater or
floodwater runoff to prevent erosion, flooding, sedimentation and flooding of
ditches or streams, destruction of natural drainage channels and flooding of
adjacent properties. Travel parks under construction shall provide erosion
control plans for approval by the Public Works Director and the SDDANR. Erosion
control plans shall include temporary and permanent erosion control measures
and facilities.
   (B)   (1)   General requirements. Drainage facilities shall be installed to
prevent erosion, flooding or hazards to the use of the roads, camping sites or
facilities within the park and to adjacent and downstream private or public
property.
      (2)   Drainage plan. All persons applying for travel park approval shall
provide a drainage plan for surface and pertinent subsurface water flows
entering, flowing within and leaving the park property. The drainage plan shall
provide stormwater calculations, design information and construction details.
The drainage plan shall be approved by the Public Works Department and SDDANR.
      (3)   Drainage system. The stormwater drainage system shall be separate
and independent of any sanitary sewer system. The drainage system and
facilities shall conform to city standards and have approval from the Public
Works Department. Natural drainageways shall be utilized wherever feasible, be
buffered from roadways and shall not be altered unless the drainage plan shows
that alternative drainage facilities are needed and provided.
      (4)   Drainage easements. Where a travel park is traversed by a
watercourse, drainage channel or stream necessary for upstream or upland
drainage, provisions shall be made for a drainage easement conforming
substantially with the alignment of the watercourse and of an adequate width
for maintenance and erosion control purposes. This requirement shall not entail
any responsibilities for watercourse maintenance on the part of the city, and
arrangements for maintenance may be required to the satisfaction of the Public
Works Department.
      (5)   Requirements reduced or modified. Drainage plans and system
requirements may be reduced or modified if, in the opinion of the Public Works
Director, such reduction or modification is necessary or appropriate to carry
out the purpose and intent of this section.    
   (C)   Travel parks shall be constructed or placed in such a manner so as to
ensure adequate drainage and protect property and improvements in accordance
with the city standards. Grading, drainage and erosion control plans shall be
prepared in accordance with ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-301) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.44 SEWER AND WATER.
   (A)   Water supply.
      (1)   The owner shall provide an accessible, adequate and safe supply of
water to all campground facilities. If a public water system of the quantity,
quality and pressure is available, the owner shall connect to the public water
system. The public water system shall be used exclusively. Travel parks within
the jurisdiction of the city will have access to a public water system.
      (2)   The water system within the travel park is considered a private
water system; therefore, the owner of the travel park is the owner of a private
water system. As the owner of the private water system, water samples shall be
submitted prior to initial startup. Results of the initial startup water sample
shall be submitted to the Department of Public Works prior to operation for the
season. Additional samples shall be submitted quarterly to an EPA-certified
laboratory (South Dakota Health Laboratory) for bacteriological analysis while
the campground is in operation. Results of each sample shall be sent to the
Department of Public Works for review. The owner shall submit a nitrate test of
the water supply system yearly. The owner of a private water system shall
report any unsafe water sample to the Department of Public Works within three
days. If an unsafe drinking water sample is reported, the campground shall
provide two consecutive safe water samples prior to allowing the public to use
the private water supply.
   (B)   Water storage and distribution facilities. The water storage and
distribution facilities shall be designed to provide a minimum of 100 gallons
per day per campsites and cabins. Peak flows shall be determined by the average
design flow multiplied by a factor of two. Each water storage reservoir shall
be covered, water-tight and constructed of impervious material. Each water
storage and distribution facility shall be sanitized and cleaned prior to use
each year. Each overflow and vent of a reservoir shall be effectively screened.
Each manhole shall be constructed with a raised lip and overlapping cover to
prevent the entrance of contaminated material. No water piping system may be
connected to any non- potable or unapproved water supply. The system shall be
protected against any hazard of backflow or back siphonage. The system shall be
designed and maintained to provide a pressure of not less than 20 pounds per
square inch under normal operating conditions at each outlet and mixture
requiring potable water.
   (C)   Watering solutions. Each campground shall be provided with at least
one easily accessible water supply outlet for obtaining potable water for
individual use and for filling any camping unit water storage tank. Each water
supply outlet shall consist of at least a water hydrant and any necessary
appurtenance and shall be protected against any hazard of backflow and back
siphonage. No designated campsite within an improved camping area may be more
than 200 feet from a water supply outlet. Each watering station for potable
water use shall be located at least 15 feet from a sanitary dump station.
Signage shall be provided to identify this as a potable water source and not to
be used for flushing waste tanks, or other similar warnings.
   (D)   Water connection system. The individual potable water connection shall
meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Each riser pipe provided shall be located and constructed so that
the pipe will not be damaged by the parking of the camping units.
      (2)   Each riser pipe shall extend at least 18 inches above the ground
elevation; pipe size shall be at least three-quarters of an inch.
      (3)   If potable water is provided at each campsite, the potable water
riser shall be a minimum of five feet away from the sewer connection at the
same campsite or adjacent campsite.
      (4)   Potable water at the sanitary dump stations shall be a minimum of
15 feet from the sewer connection.
   (E)   Wastewater disposal.
      (1)   Each campground shall have a wastewater collection and treatment
system to convey and dispose of all wastewater. The system shall be designed by
a professional engineer registered in this state, constructed and maintained in
accordance with SDDANR administration rules.
      (2)   A minimum of one sanitary dump station shall be provided at each
travel park. An additional sanitary dump station shall be provided per each 40
campsites that do not have a sewer connection at the campsite.
      (3)   Sewer connection systems shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   The sewer riser pipe must be a minimum of four-inch diameter PVC
pipe and must be located on the campsite or at the specified dump station.
         (b)   The sewer connection shall have a nominal inside diameter of at
least four inches, and the slope of any portion of it shall be one-fourth inch
for each foot. The sewer connection system shall consist of one pipeline only,
without any branch fittings. Each joint shall be water-tight.
         (c)   Materials used for the sewer system shall be corrosive-
resistant, nonabsorbent and durable, with a smooth inner surface.
         (d)   A tight-fitting plug or cover for the sewer connection system
shall be in place when a camping unit does not occupy the campsite. The tight-
fitting cover shall be designed to prevent contamination of hands when
activated, surface water infiltration and odors escaping.
         (e)   The sanitary sewer connection shall be surrounded at the inlet
by an approved 48 inch by 48 inch by four inch-thick concrete apron that is at
least four inches above the surrounding grade and sloped to the connection
pipe.
         (f)   Surface drainage shall be diverted away from the sewer
connection concrete apron.
         (g)   Sanitary dump stations shall have non-potable rinse water
outlets mounted on a retractable reel or similar device to ensure the nozzle
does not touch the ground when not in use; signage specifying unsafe/unpotable
water shall be in place at all times. The rinse water outlet shall have a
backflow prevention system installed.
   (F)   Grey water.
      (1)   No grey water may be discharged onto or allowed to accumulate on
the ground surface.
      (2)   Accidental or purposeful discharge of grey water or black water on
the surface shall be in violation of SDDANR administration rules and shall be
abated in accordance with SDDANR administration rules. The cost of abatement
and fines shall be assessed to the camping unit owner and/or property owner.
   (G)   Maintenance. Sanitary sewer and water supply systems shall be properly
maintained at all times. New or replacement water and sewer distribution and
collection systems shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
city standards.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-303) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.45 INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT.
   A travel park shall be considered a commercial user. No travel park shall
discharge wastewater to the wastewater facilities without having a valid
industrial waste permit issued by the Director of Public Works. Industrial
pretreatment shall be applied to the travel park, inclusive of the sewer
services and any sewage dumping stations.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-304) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.46 SOLID WASTE REMOVAL.
   (A)   The storage, collection and disposal of solid waste in the travel park
shall be accomplished so as to prevent fire and health hazards, rodent
harborage, insect breeding, accidents and odor. The operator of an RV park may
be required to enter into a contract for regular collection with an approved
hauler and may be required to show proof thereof.
   (B)   Leakproof, nonabsorbent solid waste containers with tight-fitting lids
shall be located not more than 200 feet from any RV space.
   (C)   Solid waste containers shall be screened from other activities by
visual barriers, such as fences, walls or natural growth, and should be
identified.
   (D)   Garbage removal shall be in accordance with city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-306) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.47 VERMIN CONTROL.
   (A)   Each building and area of the travel park shall be constructed,
equipped and maintained to prevent the entrance, harborage or breeding of
flies, roaches, rats, mice and all other insects and vermin. If there is an
infestation, the city may require the owner of the campground to clean,
renovate and fumigate the campground to eliminate and to prevent the pests.
   (B)   The city may require the campground to hire a professional
exterminator to exterminate pests under the following conditions:
      (1)   The infestation is so extensive that it is unlikely that a
nonprofessional can eradicate the pests effectively;
      (2)   The method of extermination of choice can only be carried out by a
professional exterminator; or
      (3)   The city finds that a campground has not been brought into
compliance with a prior order to rid the establishment of pests.
   (C)   The city shall require regularly scheduled professional extermination
services following the determination of an excessive pest infestation.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-307) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
§ 155.48 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All travel parks shall be in compliance with the Property Maintenance
Code as adopted in §
150.01.
   (B)   The owner shall maintain the travel park in conditions which do not
create hazards to the property or endanger the health or safety of any occupant
or surrounding resident. The owner shall provide that the grounds are kept free
of trash, rubbish or debris that is or could become a health or safety hazard
to any occupant or surrounding resident. The owner shall prevent the growth of
ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac and other noxious weeds. The
owner shall also control the growth of brush, weeds and grass to prevent
harborage of ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects within the campground.
The owner of the travel park shall minimize ponding water or water collection
points that may harbor and breed mosquitos.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-206) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
Cross-reference:
   Property Maintenance Code as adopted, see §
150.01
§ 155.49 JUNK CARS AND NUISANCES.
   All travel parks shall be free from junk, unlicensed or abandoned vehicles
and nuisances per
Ch. 92 of this code. As for abandoned camping units, it shall be the owner’s
responsibility to remove, store and dispose of the abandoned camping units
after due process in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-207) (Ord. 986, passed - -) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Wherever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is made or declared
unlawful, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, any person who shall be convicted of any such
violation shall be fined and jailed in accordance with the city’s general
penalty as indicated in §
10.99 of this code. Each day any violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-405) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
CHAPTER 156: VACATION HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Zoning districts permitting vacation homes
   
156.04   Conditional use permit required
   
156.05   License required; license fees; guest registry
   
156.06   Building permit required for new construction or conversions
   
156.07   Insurance requirements
   
156.08   Liability
   
156.09   Inspections
   
156.10   Hazardous conditions; abatement
   
156.11   Permit termination; reapplication
   
156.12   Appeals
Regulations and Restrictions
   
156.25   Conditional uses
   
156.26   Accessory uses
   
156.27   Certain uses declared incompatible and excluded
   
156.28   Vacation home numbering
   
156.29   Parking space
   
156.30   Parking restrictions
   
156.31   Private roadways, driveways and parking pads
   
156.32   Occupancy limits
   
156.33   Accommodation requirements for overnight guest use
   
156.34   Egress windows; window wells; exceptions
   
156.35   Guest room toilet and bathing facilities
   
156.36   Pet kennels and control of animals
   
156.37   Fire protection
   
156.38   Ventilation
   
156.39   Heating equipment
   
156.40   Swimming pools/spas
   
156.41   Exterior lighting
   
156.42   Unauthorized discharges
   
156.43   Solid waste removal
   
156.44   Property maintenance
   
156.45   Vermin control
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for
vacation homes operating within the jurisdiction of the city. The established
standards are for the safety and welfare of the local residents, property
owners, owners and customers of the vacation homes.
   (B)   This chapter is to support and enhance the laws and regulations of the
state.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-100)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following definitions shall apply for areas within the
jurisdiction of the city, including the extraterritorial mile. Words defined in
SDCL § 34-18-1 have the same meaning when used in this chapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPROVED. Acceptable to the Department of Health based on compliance with
applicable standards and public health practices.
      CAMPING UNIT. Any trailer, tent camper, camper, camping cabin, tent,
recreational park trailer or other equipment that may be used by the traveling
public at individual campsites.
      CAMPSITE. A specific parcel of land intended for occupancy and used by a
single camping unit.
      COMMUNICABLE DISEASE. As defined in ARSD Ch. 44:20:01:01.
      EGRESS WINDOW. A window of sufficient size to meet the requirements of
the Building Code as adopted in §
150.01.
      EPA-CERTIFIED LABORATORY. A laboratory that meets the requirements
outlined in ARSD Ch. 74:04:07.
      GUEST. An occupant of a rental unit of a lodging establishment.
      GUEST ROOM. Any room used or intended to be used by a guest for sleeping
purposes.
      HEALTH HAZARD. A chemical agent, source of filth, cause of sickness or
condition which is a health threat to others or a threat to the public health.
      INSPECTION. An objective examination of a lodging establishment by the
Department to review the employee practices, sanitary conditions and health
standards in accordance with SDCL Ch. 34-18 and this chapter.
      LODGING ESTABLISHMENT. Any building or other structure and property or
premises kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public to be a
place where sleeping accommodations are furnished for pay to two or more
transient guests.
      OPERATOR. Any person or organization designated in charge of the day-to-
day operations of a lodging establishment, campground or food service
establishment as defined in SDCL § 34-18-1.
      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. An independent zoning district wherein the
zoning regulation need not be uniform for each class or type of land use, but
where the use of land shall be in accordance with a preliminary planned
development plan by district.
      PRIMARY EXIT. An exit with a side-hinge door leading to the exterior of
the structure and that is most often used when entering or exiting the
structure.
      PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A water system that serves a campground, food
service establishment or lodging establishment that is not a public water
system regulated by the Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
      PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A system that is regulated by the Department of
Agriculture and Natural Resources that meets the definition requirements set
forth in ARSD Ch. 74:04:12:01.
      SINGLE-ACTION HARDWARE. A latching mechanism that allows a door to unlock
and open with a single turn or movement of the interior knob or lever. This
includes doorknobs, lever handles and panic bars.
      TEMPORARY LODGING. The same individual or individuals occupying the
vacation home for periods of 180 days or less in any calendar year.
      TRANSIENT GUEST. Any person who resides in a lodging establishment less
than 28 consecutive days.
      VACATION HOME or VACATION HOME ESTABLISHMENT. Any home, cabin or similar
building that is rented, leased or furnished in its entirety to the public on a
daily or weekly basis for more than 14 days in a calendar year and is not
occupied by an owner or manager during the time of rental. This term does not
include a bed and breakfast establishment as defined in SDCL § 34-18-9.1(1).
(Prior Code, § Q-15-101)
§ 156.03 ZONING DISTRICTS PERMITTING VACATION HOMES.
   (A)   Vacation homes are permitted by conditional use in the following
zoning districts with the special conditions indicated below and additional
requirements as specified by the Planning and Zoning (P&Z) Commission and City
Council:
      (1)   General Commercial Zoning District (§
159.335).
         (a)   Shall be compatible with the adjacent operations;
         (b)   Shall be screened as deemed appropriate by the Planning and
Zoning Commission from view from the adjacent properties;
         (c)   No parking of camping units within public rights-of-way; and
         (d)   Vacation home shall have access to an improved public road.
      (2)   Highway Commercial Zoning District (§
159.355).
         (a)   Shall be compatible with the adjacent operations;
         (b)   Shall be screened as deemed appropriate by the Planning and
Zoning Commission from view from the adjacent properties;
         (c)   No parking of camping units within public rights-of-way;
         (d)   Vacation home shall have access to an improved public road; and
         (e)   SDDOT-approved access from the state highways, or access to
vacation home is from city streets.
      (3)   Park and Riverfront District (§
159.415).
         (a)   Shall be compatible with the adjacent operations;
         (b)   Shall be screened as deemed appropriate by the Planning and
Zoning Commission from view from the adjacent properties;
         (c)   No parking of camping units within the public rights-of-way; and
         (d)   Vacation home shall have access to an improved public road.
      (4)   Planned Development District (§
159.430).
         (a)   Shall be permitted by the Planned Development District and by
the district bylaws and covenants, if any;
         (b)   The Planned Development District shall be a minimum of one acre
in size or be surrounded by property not usable for residential use of an area
of one acre or more;
         (c)   Shall be screened as deemed appropriate by the Planned
Development District and the Planning and Zoning Commission from view from the
adjacent properties;
         (d)   Shall be compatible with the adjacent operations;
         (e)   No parking of camping units within the public rights-of-way; and
         (f)   Vacation home shall have access to an improved public road.
   (B)   Upon receiving a conditional use permit, a vacation home must also
obtain an annual city license as indicated in §
156.05 of this chapter.
   (C)   The vacation home shall not be exempt from any zoning requirements or
regulations of the zoning district in which the vacation home is located.
   (D)   Vacation homes are prohibited in floodways. Vacation homes are
excluded from the Industrial and Sale Barn Districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-200)
§ 156.04 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   To operate a vacation home within the city, the owner of the vacation home
shall obtain a conditional use permit. To obtain or renew a conditional use
permit, an application for a conditional use permit to operate a vacation home
must be submitted to the Director of Public Works or his or her designee four
months prior to startup or expiration and must be approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission for recommendation to the City Council. The conditional use
permit will expire as determined by the terms of the conditional use permit.
The conditional use permit must be renewed prior to its expiration for
continued operation. A conditional use permit is not transferable.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-300)
§ 156.05 LICENSE REQUIRED; LICENSE FEES; GUEST REGISTRY.
   (A)   (1)   To operate a vacation home within the city, the owner of the
vacation home shall obtain an annual state license prior to obtaining a city
license. To obtain or renew a vacation home license, the operator must provide
proof of insurance and construct, maintain and operate the vacation home in
accordance with this chapter and other city ordinances and applicable state
laws which may apply.
      (2)   The license application shall be provided by the Finance Officer.
The application will be reviewed by the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee, who will then forward to the Planning and Zoning Commission for
recommendation to the City Council for the issuance or denial of the license.
The application, a copy of the rental agreement, house rules, approved state
license and other items required to accompany the application shall be due not
later than December 31 of each year the vacation home is in operation.
      (3)   The fee for obtaining a vacation home license shall be as indicated
in §
110.25 of this code, related to fees assessed by the city.
   (B)   A guest registry must be maintained and contain accurate contact
information for each guest that stays at the vacation home. Each vacation home
is required to maintain these records for three years. Periodic inspection by
the city will be conducted. A review and verification of the guest registry
will be required to renew the license of a vacation home.
   (C)   For any licensed vacation home, there shall be a reinspection fee as
provided in §
110.25 of this code. This reinspection fee shall be charged each time a
vacation home is reinspected. To receive or renew the license, the vacation
home shall be in compliance with all the requirements of this chapter and the
issued conditional use permit.
   (D)   All vacation home licenses shall be for one year in duration and shall
begin on January 1 of each year and expire December 31 of that year.
   (E)   The license for the operation of a vacation home shall be terminated
upon written notice from the city for continued violations of this chapter or
act or inaction by the vacation homeowner that jeopardizes the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the local area/neighborhood or of the city.
   (F)   A vacation home license is not transferable. Vacation home license
fees are nonrefundable.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-301) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.06 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION OR CONVERSIONS.
   (A)   A building permit is required for every new construction for use as a
vacation home or renovation of an existing residential structure for purposes
of converting its use to a vacation home or accessory structure. The building
permit shall be obtained from the Building Official. Separate permits are
required for gas, plumbing, electrical and mechanical work and grading,
drainage and erosion control within and around the vacation home. All work
shall comply with the currently adopted zoning, building, gas, plumbing,
electrical and mechanical codes. The fees for permit applications shall be the
building code fee schedule adopted by the city in effect at the time of the
application.
   (B)   Any building permit exemptions allowed by the current building and
zoning codes, or any other code adopted by the city, shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-304)
§ 156.07 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The vacation home shall obtain and maintain an insurance policy and
provide to the City Finance Officer annually, at the time of license renewal,
proof of insurance coverage when obtaining the vacation home permit and
license. All insurance policies shall list the city as an additional insured.
   (B)   Other insurance which may be required per state statute before a
license will be issued may include:
      (1)   Workers’ compensation;
      (2)   Vehicle insurance; and
      (3)   Swimming pool liability insurance.
   (C)   Other insurance may be necessary depending on permitted uses, location
and other risk factors.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-302)
§ 156.08 LIABILITY.
   The city and representatives of the city acting in good faith shall not be
held liable, personally or as an entity, for any damage occurring to persons
and property as a result of any act, or by reason of an act or omission, in the
discharge of official duties or for the operation of the vacation home.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-303)
§ 156.09 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee are authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of vacation homes
located in the city’s planning and zoning jurisdiction in order that he or she
may perform his or her duty of safeguarding the health, safety and welfare of
occupants of the vacation home.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee and/or the Building Official or
his or her designee shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any
vacation home for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions
relating to the enforcement of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the owner
or occupant of the vacation home or the person in charge thereof to give the
Fire Department and/or Building Official free access to such vacation home at
reasonable times for the purpose of inspections.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-900) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.10 HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS; ABATEMENT.
   If, during a routine inspection, an obvious health hazard or other hazardous
condition is discovered which presents an imminent danger to individuals, the
Department shall require the owner of the vacation home establishment to remove
or correct the hazardous condition.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-901)
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD 44:02:08:12.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 34-1-17, 34-18-22 and 34-18-24
§ 156.11 PERMIT TERMINATION; REAPPLICATION.
   (A)   The conditional use shall be valid for one year or as specified by the
conditional use permit, but not to exceed three years, at which time, the owner
of the property must reapply for a conditional use permit in order to obtain a
license to continue operating the vacation home. The owner must request a new
conditional use permit not later than four months prior to the expiration date
of the current permit.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a conditional use permit for continued operation of
a vacation home is a violation of this chapter. Penalties for violations shall
be assessed as written in §
156.99 of this chapter. If the owner has not begun operating the vacation home
for a period of six months from the date of the approval of the conditional
use, the conditional use permit shall be terminated. If the owner has not
operated the vacation home for a period of six months under a valid conditional
use permit, the conditional use permit shall be terminated. Reapplication for a
conditional use permit shall be required.
   (C)   The applicant/owner may terminate the permit in writing at any time
during the term of a valid conditional use permit. Terms of termination and
restoration of the property will be prepared and approved by all parties. Fees
for permit or license are not refundable.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-1000) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.12 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person directly affected by a decision, notice or order of the
code official under this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals, provided that a written application for appeal is filed
with the Director of Public Works or his or her authorized designee within 30
days after the day the decision, notice or order was served. An application for
appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this chapter or the
rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of this chapter do not fully apply or the requirements of this
chapter are adequately satisfied by other means.
   (B)   Appeals of decisions of the code official (other than ministerial acts
or imminent danger notices) shall stay the enforcement of the decision until
the appeal is heard by the Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
   (C)   All hearings before the Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall be open
to the public. The appellant, the appellant’s representative, the code
official, any member of the city staff or any person whose interests are
affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may affirm, modify or reverse the
decision of the code official. The decision of the code official shall only be
modified or reversed upon a concurring vote of at least two-thirds of the
members of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals. The decision of the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals shall be appealable to the Circuit Court.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-1200) (Ord. 1050, passed - -)
REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 156.25 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted by conditional use permit:
   (A)   Vacation home;
   (B)   Temporary lodging; and
   (C)   Single-family home (not permitted in the General Business, Highway
Commercial or Park and Riverfront Districts).
(Prior Code, § Q-15-201)
§ 156.26 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are considered accessory uses to the permitted
conditional use permit:
   (A)   Construction, maintenance and use of swimming pools;
   (B)   Campsites;
   (C)   Camping units in designated campsites;
   (D)   Outdoor cooking and dining;
   (E)   Storage buildings for equipment used by the vacation homeowner for
maintenance of the vacation home;
   (F)   Garages, carports and storage buildings for the renters of the
vacation home for the duration of the stay for the purpose of storing boats,
vehicles and other equipment used while occupying the vacation home;
   (G)   Playgrounds;
   (H)   Boat and fishing docks;
   (I)   Boat ramps; and
   (J)   Swimming beaches.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-202)
§ 156.27 CERTAIN USES DECLARED INCOMPATIBLE AND EXCLUDED.
   The following uses are prohibited:
   (A)   Sublease or rental of the vacation home by someone other than
licensee;
   (B)   Illegal activities;
   (C)   Large parties in excess of occupancy limits specified in the
conditional use permit; and
   (D)   Behavior and use not in compliance with city ordinances and state and
federal laws.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-203) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.28 VACATION HOME NUMBERING.
   The vacation home shall be properly identified with the correct house number
and street address, with identification being not less than four inches in
height and readily visible from city streets.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-501)
§ 156.29 PARKING SPACE.
   There shall be established and maintained for each vacation home one vehicle
parking space per bedroom and camping unit. There shall also be one off-street
vehicle parking space per five allowable guests. Off-street parking spaces for
overnight guests shall be located on the property or near the vacation home.
Overnight guest parking on public streets is prohibited. Daytime guests may
park on the street. Parking in the front yard is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-403) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.30 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   Each vacation home shall have sufficient off-street parking to accommodate
the occupant capacity of the vacation home. No occupant of the vacation home
shall park a camper, trailer or recreational vehicle upon a public street for a
continuous period of more than two hours.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-404) (Ord. 888, passed - -; Ord. 1030, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
156.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-30-2, 9-31-1, 32-30-6.2 and 32-30-11.1
§ 156.31 PRIVATE ROADWAYS, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING PADS.
   (A)   Driveways shall be constructed in accordance with city standards.
   (B)   Parking pads shall be constructed in accordance with city standards.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-405)
§ 156.32 OCCUPANCY LIMITS.
   (A)   Bedrooms.
      (1)   A maximum of two persons per bedroom are allowed in a vacation home
unless the bedrooms are of sufficient size to safely accommodate additional
persons. The applicant is required to provide the total number of verified
sleeping accommodations with the application for licensure. Sleeping
accommodations must be verified by the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee prior to licensure or renewal of licensure.
      (2)   Minimum bedroom area of any bedroom is 70 square feet for the first
person plus 50 square feet for each additional person, or the minimum sleeping
room as required in currently adopted, applicable building and fire codes.
   (B)   Total home occupancy. The maximum number of occupants in a vacation
home shall be indicated in the conditional use permit, and will be as follows.
      (1)   The maximum number of daytime guests between the hours of 6:00 a.m.
and midnight is the lesser of the total floor area divided by 50 square feet
per person, or as allowed by egress capacity.
      (2)   The maximum number of overnight guests within the vacation home
shall be limited to the approved sleeping arrangements. The guests staying in
camping units, if permitted, are not included in the total allowed overnight
guests within the vacation home.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-401) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.33 ACCOMMODATION REQUIREMENTS FOR OVERNIGHT GUEST USE.
   Any building/structure that is provided for use by overnight guests and
physically secured to the ground on a foundation system shall meet the
following requirements.
   (A)   Each sleeping room shall either directly exit to the outside or be
equipped with an operable egress window.
   (B)   Each window and opening to the outside that is not a door shall be
screened to prevent the entrance of vermin and insects.
   (C)   Any fuel-fired heating equipment located inside the vacation home
shall be inspected at least once a year by a person in the business of heating
system maintenance. A carbon monoxide detector shall be installed on each level
of the home and within ten feet of the door of each sleeping room. A written
verification of the inspection shall be kept on file for the vacation home with
the date of the inspection, a written statement by the person making the
inspection and that person’s signature.
   (D)   The bath house, if present, must meet all applicable codes.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-700)
§ 156.34 EGRESS WINDOWS; WINDOW WELLS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Egress windows.
      (1)   Each egress window in the vacation home shall have at least a net
clear opening of five and seven-tenths (5.7) square feet. The net clear opening
shall be at least 24 inches high and at least 20 inches wide. The egress window
shall open from the inside of the guest room without the use of any special
tool or knowledge. The egress window shall have a finished sill height of not
more than 44 inches above the floor. Egress windows shall be in full compliance
with the Building Code as adopted in §
150.01.
      (2)   Egress windows shall be clearly identified as an exit.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-701)
   (B)   Egress window wells. Each egress window that is below grade shall lead
to a window well. The horizontal dimensions of the window well shall provide at
least a net clear area of nine square feet, with at least a horizontal
projection and width of 36 inches. The vertical height of the window well may
not exceed 44 inches without a permanent ladder. All egress window wells shall
comply with the Building Code as adopted in §
150.01.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-702)
   (C)   Exceptions. Each grade level and below egress window shall have at
least a net clear opening of five square feet and shall be at least 24 inches
high and at least 20 inches wide.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-702.1)
Cross-reference:
   Building Code, see §
150.01
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD 44:02:08:15 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 34-1-17, 34-18-22, 34-18-22.1, 34-18-22.2
and 34-18-24
§ 156.35 GUEST ROOM TOILET AND BATHING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each vacation home establishment shall provide toilet, lavatory and
bathing facilities. In establishments providing toilet, lavatory and bathing
facilities shared by more than one guest room, the facilities must be provided
in the ratio of one water closet, lavatory and shower or bathtub, or bathtub
and shower combination, for every ten guests.
   (B)   All facilities must be provided with hot and cold running water under
pressure to each lavatory, shower, bathtub and bathtub and shower combination.
The hot water must be a minimum of 110°F and at a maximum temperature of 120°F
at the tap. Each shower, bathtub and bathtub and shower combination shall be
provided with individual control valves of the pressure balance, thermostatic
or combination pressure balance and thermostatic mixing valve type that provide
scald and thermal shock protection.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-703)
Cross-reference:
   Plumbing Code as adopted, see §
150.03
Editor’s note:
   As additional references, see ARSD 44:02:08:03.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 34-1-17, 34-18-22 and 34-18-24
§ 156.36 PET KENNELS AND CONTROL OF ANIMALS.
   Any pet kennel or pet confinement, if provided, shall be operated and
maintained in a clean, sanitary and safe manner. No owner or person in charge
of an animal may permit it to run at large or to become a nuisance for the
vacation home or the adjacent properties. The vacation home owner/manager shall
require all renters leaving their animal kenneled at the vacation home to
provide their contact information to the vacation home owner or manger in case
of an emergency or disturbance. All city leash laws will be enforced.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-708) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.37 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Any vacation home establishment shall meet the following minimum fire
safety standards.
      (1)   Each floor where ten or more occupants are sleeping shall have
access to at least two remote egress exit doors to the exterior of the home.
      (2)   Any egress exit door or window that leads to the exterior of the
structure shall be capable of unlocking from the interior without the use of a
key or special knowledge or effort and be free from obstruction.
      (3)   There shall be a smoke detector in each sleeping room and outside
of each sleeping room within 10 feet of each sleeping room door. There shall be
at least one smoke detector on each level of the home. The owner or manager
shall test any battery-operated smoke detector at least twice a year.
      (4)   Any sleeping room shall be equipped with an operable egress window.
Any sleeping room with a direct egress exit door to the exterior of the
building is exempt from this requirement.
      (5)   A portable fire extinguisher with a minimum 2-A rating shall be
made available on each floor and shall be inspected and tagged annually.
   (B)   Portable fire extinguishers shall be provided in an accessible area
for use and shall be maintained in an operable condition. Each fire
extinguisher shall be rated a minimum of 2A10BC, shall be not more than 75 feet
from any kitchen and exterior barbeque or area of open flame, must be
maintained operational and must be accessible to the occupants/guests at all
times;
   (C)   If capacity exceeds:
      (1)   Twenty overnight guests, then an automatic multiple-station fire
detection and alarm system with pull stations on each floor and annunciation
panel with direct 911 call, installed per the Fire Code as adopted in §
150.05; and
      (2)   Thirty overnight guests, then a fire detection and alarm system, as
stated in division (C)(1) above, and an automatic fire suppression system
installed per the state’s adopted Fire Code.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-603) Penalty, see §
156.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire Code as adopted, see §
150.01
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see SDCL § 34-18-22.3.
§ 156.38 VENTILATION.
   Bathrooms, toilet rooms and laundry rooms must be provided with either
natural ventilation or mechanical ventilation connected directly to the
outside. Mechanical clothes dryers must be vented to the outside. No vent shall
discharge into the attic or eave space. When vented to the outside air, the
discharge may not create a health hazard.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-705) Penalty, see §
156.99
Cross-reference:
   Mechanical Code as adopted, see §
150.04
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD 44:02:08:07.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 34-1-17, 34-18-22 and 34-18-24
§ 156.39 HEATING EQUIPMENT.
   Each facility shall have a heating system capable of maintaining a
temperature between 65°F and 75°F. Any heating equipment, if fuel-burning,
shall be inspected at least once a year by a person in the business of heating
system maintenance (which includes hot water heaters, primary heating sources
and secondary heating sources). A written verification of the inspection must
be kept on file in the facility with the date of inspection, a written
statement by the person making the inspection and that person’s signature.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-706) Penalty, see §
156.99
Cross-reference:
   Mechanical Code as adopted, see §
150.04
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD 44:02:08:07.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 34-1-17, 34-18-22 and 34-18-24
§ 156.40 SWIMMING POOLS/SPAS.
   (A)   Each swimming pool, spa or other similar recreational facility shall
comply with requirements set forth in Department of Health state statutes.
   (B)   Swimming pools shall be grounded in accordance with the Electrical
Code as adopted in §
150.02.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-707)
Cross-reference:
   Electric Code as adopted, see §
150.03
§ 156.41 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   Adequate lighting for the safe movement of both pedestrians and drivers
shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-709)
§ 156.42 UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGES.
   A vacation home shall not allow camping units to discharge wastewater (grey
or black) onto the surface of the ground, into public streets or directly into
the sanitary sewer manholes.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-600) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.43 SOLID WASTE REMOVAL.
   (A)   The storage, collection and disposal of solid waste in the vacation
home shall be accomplished so as to prevent fire and health hazards, rodent
harborage, insect breeding, accidents and odor. The operator of a vacation home
may be required to enter into a contract for regular collection with an
approved hauler and may be required to show proof thereof.
   (B)   Leakproof, non-absorbent solid waste containers with tight-fitting
lids shall be located not more than 200 feet from the vacation home and placed
where renters can easily locate.
   (C)   Solid waste containers shall be screened from other activities by
visual barriers, such as fences, walls or natural growth, and should be
identified.
   (D)   Garbage removal shall be in accordance with city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-601) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.44 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   All vacation homes shall be in compliance with the Property Maintenance Code
as adopted in §
150.01.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-500)
Cross-reference:
   Property Maintenance Code as adopted, see §
150.01
§ 156.45 VERMIN CONTROL.
   (A)   Each building and area of the vacation home shall be constructed,
equipped and maintained to prevent the entrance, harborage or breeding of
flies, roaches, rats, mice and all other insects and vermin. If there is an
infestation, the city may require the owner of the vacation home to clean,
renovate and fumigate the vacation home to eliminate and to prevent the pests
prior to continued use.
   (B)   The city may require the vacation home to hire a professional
exterminator to exterminate pests under the following conditions:
      (1)   The infestation is so extensive that it is unlikely that a
nonprofessional can eradicate the pests effectively;
      (2)   The method of extermination of choice can only be carried out by a
professional exterminator; or
      (3)   The city finds the vacation home has not been brought into
compliance with a prior order to rid the establishment of pests.
   (C)   The city shall require regularly scheduled professional extermination
services following the determination of an excessive pest infestation.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-602) (Ord. 986, passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD 44:02:08:05.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 34-1-17, 34-18-22 and 34-18-24
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Wherever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is made or declared
unlawful, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, any person who is in violation shall be fined in
accordance with the city’s general penalty as indicated in §
10.99 of this code. Each day any violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate offense. A violation of this chapter constituting a
public nuisance as defined under SDCL Ch. 21-10 is subject to abatement. The
city shall be entitled to recover its entire costs incurred in abating the
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § Q-15-1100)
CHAPTER 157: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Statutory authority
   
157.02   Findings of fact
   
157.03   Statement of purpose
   
157.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
157.05   Definitions
   
157.06   Scope
   
157.07   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
157.08   Compliance
   
157.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
157.10   Interpretation
   
157.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
157.12   Special flood hazard area designation; minimum construction elevation
   
157.13   Administration by Director of Public Works or designee
   
157.14   Duties and responsibilities of Director of Public Works or designee
   
157.15   Development permits
Variance Procedure
   
157.30   Board of Adjustment and Appeals to hear and decide appeals
   
157.31   Conditions for variances
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
157.45   General standards required
   
157.46   Anchoring
   
157.47   Construction materials and methods
   
157.48   Utilities
   
157.49   Subdivision proposals
Specific Standards
   
157.60   Standards required for areas of special flood hazard
   
157.61   Residential construction
   
157.62   Nonresidential construction
   
157.63   Openings in enclosures below the lowest floor
   
157.64   Below-grade crawlspace construction
   
157.65   Manufactured homes
   
157.66   Recreational vehicles
   
157.67   Floodways
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The legislature of the state, through statute authority, delegated the
responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-101)
§ 157.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstruction
in areas of special flood hazard, which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-102)
§ 157.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas, by provisions designed:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges,
located in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   (G)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that the property is in
an area of special flood hazard; and
   (H)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-103)
§ 157.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-104) (Ord. 833, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-36-16
§ 157.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the interpretation by the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee of any provision of this chapter or a request for
a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation
of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of this
chapter.
   EXPANSION TO EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff or surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP or FIRM. The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazard and the risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary–floodway map
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface more than one foot.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement); an unfinished or enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for the parking of vehicles,
building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area is not
considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such enclosure is not built
so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation
design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure that is transportable in one or more sections
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use, with or without
a permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured a the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and shall mean the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundation or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally aboveground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before the start of construction of the improvement. This term
includes structures which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the
actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-36-16
§ 157.06 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-107)
§ 157.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood
Insurance Study of Stanley County,” dated May 17, 2004, with an accompanying
flood insurance rate map (FIRM), is hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of this chapter. The flood insurance study and FIRM are on file at 08
East Second Avenue, Fort Pierre, South Dakota.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-108) (Ord. 833, passed - -)
§ 157.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any exiting
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
other ordinances, easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-110)
§ 157.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes or city charter.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-111)
§ 157.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee
thereof or the Federal Emergency Management Agency for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-112)
§ 157.12 SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA DESIGNATION; MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION ELEVATION.
   (A)   The special flood hazard area shall be designated as all lands within
the existing or future boundaries of the corporate limits of the city and the
one-mile extraterritorial area east of a line defined as follows: beginning at
the intersection of Deadwood Street and Main Avenue, following Deadwood Street
northwest to the intersection of Highway 83 and Highway 14/34, then west on
Highway 14/34 to the intersection of Lewis Street, then north on Lewis Street
to the northeast corner of Lot 3R, Section 21, then across the recreation trail
(Lot C-1) to the southwest corner of Lot R-2, Section 21, then along the west
lot line to the southwest corner of Lot R-1, Section 21, then along the west
lot line to the southwest corner of Relicted Lot Number 3, Section 21, then
along the west lot line to the northwest corner, then crossing Cottonwood Road
to the southwest corner of Lot 1, Section 16, along the west lot line to the
southwest corner of Accretion Lot 2, Section 16, then along the west lot line
to the southwest corner of Accretion Lot 1, then along the west lot line to the
southwest corner of Accretion Lot 4, Section 16, to the southwest corner of
Accretion Lot 4A, then along the west lot line to the northwest corner of
Accretion Lot 4A, Section 16, all in Township 5 North, Range 31 East, Black
Hills Meridian, Stanley County, South Dakota.
   (B)   All structures constructed hereafter shall be constructed with a
minimum elevation of two feet higher than the water surface profile as
described by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers report “Pierre Area Flood
Mitigation Study and Implementation Plan,” Table 3, page 17, as approved by the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers District Office, August 12, 1999.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-113)
§ 157.13 ADMINISTRATION BY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS OR DESIGNEE.
   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee is hereby appointed to
administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with its provisions.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-115)
§ 157.14 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS OR DESIGNEE.
   The duties of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall
include, but not be limited to, those as are set out in the following
divisions:
(Prior Code, § Q-13-116)
   (A)   Permit review.
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from federal, state or local government agencies
from which prior approval is required; and
      (3)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure the
encroachment provisions of §
157.67(A) of this chapter are met.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-117)
   (B)   Use of other base flood data. When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with §
157.07 of this chapter, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and
floodway data available from any federal, state or other source as criteria for
requiring that new construction, substantial improvements or other development
in Zone A are administered in accordance with §§
157.15 and
157.60;
(Prior Code, § Q-13-118)
   (C)   Information to be obtained and maintained.
      (1)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures and whether or not the structure contains a basement;
      (2)   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         (a)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structures have been floodproofed; and
         (b)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
157.15(B)(3) of this chapter.
      (3)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-119)
   (D)   Alteration of watercourses.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of
Agriculture and Natural Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
      (2)   Require that maintenance be provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-120)
   (E)   Interpretation of firm boundaries. Make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity, as provided in §
157.30, to appeal the interpretation.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-121)
(Ord. 833, passed - -)
§ 157.15 DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
157.07 of this chapter. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the Director of Public Works and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials and drainage facilities; and the
location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
157.62 of this chapter and for any residential structures meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
157.61; and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-114)
VARIANCE PROCEDURE
§ 157.30 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS TO HEAR AND DECIDE APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals, as established by the city, shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall hear and decide appeals when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee in the enforcement
or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals, or any taxpayer, may appeal such decisions to the Circuit Court as
provided by law.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment and Appeals
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
waterways to the injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
the floodplain management program of that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets and bridges.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors in §
157.30(D) and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Adjustment and Appeals
may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary
to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (F)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall maintain the
records of all appeal actions, including technical information, and report any
variances to the Federal Emergency and Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-123) (Ord. 833, passed - -)
§ 157.31 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing §
157.30(D) has been fully considered. As lot size increases beyond the one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall not be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
as identified in §
157.30(D) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
that is below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-124)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 157.45 GENERAL STANDARDS REQUIRED.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards set out in
this subchapter are required.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-126)
§ 157.46 ANCHORING.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be
capable of resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
   (B)   All manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement and capable of resisting the
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of anchoring may include, but are
not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
   (C)   Specific requirements may be that:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations,
with manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home, with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to the manufactured home are similarly anchored.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-127)
§ 157.47 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment,
and other service facilities, that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-128)
§ 157.48 UTILITIES.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge from the
system into floodwaters.
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-129) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.49 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities,
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed developments which contain at least 50 lots or five acres,
whichever is less.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-130)
SPECIFIC STANDARDS
§ 157.60 STANDARDS REQUIRED FOR AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
157.07 or
157.14(B) of this chapter, the following provisions set out in this subchapter
are required.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-131)
§ 157.61 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the base
flood elevation or have a design provided by a registered professional engineer
satisfying the requirements of §
157.62(A) through (C) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-132) (Ord. 833, passed - -)
§ 157.62 NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or
other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to the level of the base flood elevation or, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
   (A)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood elevation, the structure
is water-tight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
   (B)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
   (C)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this section. Such
certifications shall be provided to the officials as set forth in §
157.15 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-133)
§ 157.63 OPENINGS IN ENCLOSURES BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR.
   (A)   For all new construction and substantial improvements, fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor, not including basements, that are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exist of floodwaters.
   (B)   Designs for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be not higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other coverings
or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-134)
§ 157.64 BELOW-GRADE CRAWLSPACE CONSTRUCTION.
   New construction and substantial improvement of any below-grade crawlspace
shall:
   (A)   Have interior grade elevation that is below base flood elevation not
lower than two feet below the lowest adjacent grade;
   (B)   Have the height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the foundation wall, not exceed
four feet at any point;
   (C)   Have an adequate drainage system that allows floodwaters to drain from
the interior area of the crawlspace following a flood; and
   (D)   Meet the provisions of §§
157.46,
157.47 and
157.63 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-135) (Ord. 833, passed - -)
§ 157.65 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance with §
157.46 of this chapter.
   (B)   All manufactured homes, or those to be substantially improved, shall
conform to the following requirement: require that manufactured homes that are
placed or substantially improved on a site outside of a manufactured home park
or subdivision, or in a new manufactured home park or subdivision, or in an
expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, or in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision, on which a manufactured home
has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is
elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-136) (Ord. 833, passed - -)
§ 157.66 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Require that recreational vehicles either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; and/or
   (C)   Meet the permit requirements and elevation and anchoring requirements
for manufactured homes.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-137) (Ord. 833, passed - -)
§ 157.67 FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard, established in §
157.07 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway
is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
   (A)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge; and
   (B)   If §
157.67(A) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §
157.45 through
157.49 and
157.61 through
157.66.
(Prior Code, § Q-13-138) (Ord. 833, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-36-16
CHAPTER 158: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
158.001   Title
   
158.002   Purpose
   
158.003   Jurisdiction
   
158.004   Conformity
   
158.005   Amendments
   
158.006   Administration
Subdivision Plans Generally
   
158.020   Recording, use and selling
   
158.021   Classification of subdivisions
   
158.022   Development process
   
158.023   Character of the land
   
158.024   Official submission date
   
158.025   Plan and plat preparation
   
158.026   Replats
   
158.027   Filing fee
   
158.028   Placement of city in hardship
   
158.029   Certificates for preliminary plans, plats and replats
Sketch Plats
   
158.040   Discussion of requirements
   
158.041   Application and submission
   
158.042   Sketch plat contents and requirements
   
158.043   Approval
   
158.044   Preservation of natural features and amenities
Preliminary Plats
   
158.055   Application and submission
   
158.056   Preliminary plat contents and requirements
   
158.057   Construction plans
   
158.058   Preliminary approval
   
158.059   Effective period of preliminary plan approval
   
158.060   Revisions to preliminary plan
   
158.061   Zoning regulations
   
158.062   Grading of site prior to final approval
   
158.063   Informal review and determination of need for professional assistance
Final Plans and the Plat
   
158.075   Application and submission
   
158.076   Plat contents and requirements
   
158.077   Notice of public hearing
   
158.078   Public hearing and determination
   
158.079   Submission and review
   
158.080   Vested rights
   
158.081   Signing of subdivision plat
   
158.082   Development agreement
   
158.083   Recording of plat
   
158.084   Financial assurance for new improvements
   
158.085   Sectionalizing major subdivision plats
Drainage and Grading
   
158.100   Drainage plan
   
158.101   Grading plan
   
158.102   Sediment and erosion control plan
   
158.103   Approval limitations
Replats and Plat Vacations
   
158.115   Replats
   
158.116   Vacation of plats
Improvements Generally
   
158.130   Costs of improvements
   
158.131   Assurances required for improvements on existing plats
   
158.132   Governmental units
   
158.133   Inspection procedure and fees
   
158.134   Acceptance of dedication offers
   
158.135   Certificate of satisfactory completion
   
158.136   Reduction of a performance bond or other surety
   
158.137   Maintenance of improvements
   
158.138   Temporary improvements
   
158.139   Deferral or waiver of required improvements
   
158.140   Failure to complete improvements
   
158.141   Issuance of building permits and certificates of occupancy
   
158.142   Fencing
   
158.143   Lot vacation requirements
Blocks, Monuments and Lots
   
158.155   Blocks
   
158.156   Monuments
   
158.157   Lots
Streets, Sidewalks and Storm Sewers
   
158.170   Street arrangement and design
   
158.171   Street names
   
158.172   Minimum street width and right-of-way
   
158.173   Street dedication and reservation
   
158.174   Street construction
   
158.175   Street signs
   
158.176   Street lights
   
158.177   Sidewalks
   
158.178   Bridges
   
158.179   Curbs and gutters
   
158.180   Storm sewers
   
158.181   Nature of stormwater facilities
   
158.182   Dedication of drainage easements
Utilities and Public Spaces
   
158.195   Utility location
   
158.196   Public easements
   
158.197   Water facilities
   
158.198   Sewer facilities
   
158.199   Land reservation for public use
   
158.200   Minimum park and playground reservation size
   
158.201   Recreation site character and location
   
158.202   Alternative procedure
   
158.203   Applicability to land utilizing average density
   
158.204   Other public uses
Nonresidential Subdivisions
   
158.215   Nonresidential subdivisions generally
   
158.216   Standards
 
   
158.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.001 TITLE.
   This document shall be referred to as the “Subdivision Regulations of the
City of Fort Pierre.”
(Prior Code, § Q-12-101)
§ 158.002 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to govern the subdivision of land to
guide growth of the community; to provide for coordination of streets in other
subdivisions and transportation plans; to set aside adequate areas for public
uses, water and sewer facilities and drainage and flood control; to foster
efficient and orderly growth compatible with the natural environment; to
protect and provide for the public health, safety and general welfare; and to
conform with other plans and regulations.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-102)
§ 158.003 JURISDICTION.
   These subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of land
located within the city and within the unincorporated area identified by the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan in accordance with the platting jurisdiction
statutes of SDCL § 11-6-26.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-103)
§ 158.004 CONFORMITY.
   In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdivision plans
and plats shall comply with the most current version of the following plans,
laws, rules and regulations:
   (A)   All applicable statutory provisions;
   (B)   The Comprehensive Land Use Plan and the policies set forth therein;
   (C)   The official zoning map, as amended or revised;
   (D)   The zoning ordinance, building and housing codes and all other
applicable laws of the appropriate jurisdiction;
   (E)   The special requirements of these regulations and any rules of
appropriate state agencies;
   (F)   The rules of the State Highway Department, if the subdivision or any
lot contained therein abuts a state highway or connecting street;
   (G)   The city’s Standard Specifications for Construction, as amended;
   (H)   The floodplain insurance rate map, in accordance with FEMA; and
   (I)   Other plans and regulations, such as, but not limited to, any nuisance
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-104)
§ 158.005 AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may from time to time amend the provisions imposed by these
regulations. Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held by the
Planning and Zoning Commission or the City Council in the manner prescribed by
law.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-106)
§ 158.006 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Subdivision regulation shall be the responsibility of the City Council
acting upon the recommendation of the City Planning and Zoning Commission, with
the assistance of the Director of Public Works and Finance Officer or their
designees. The City Council is hereby authorized to enforce these regulations,
to interpret them and to promulgate and enforce such rules and regulations as
it shall deem necessary, in the administration of this chapter and in the
regulation of subdivision activities, for the good of the community as a whole.
   (B)   Any appropriate actions may be taken in law or equity to prevent any
violation thereof, to prevent unlawful construction, to recover damages, to
correct or abate a violation or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building,
structure or premises.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-201)
SUBDIVISION PLANS GENERALLY
§ 158.020 RECORDING, USE AND SELLING.
   (A)   No person shall transfer, sell or negotiate to sell any parcel as part
of a subdivision plan before a plat of such subdivision has been approved by
the city and recorded as hereinafter provided.
 
   (B)   No person shall subdivide or lay out such land in lots unless done so
by plat in accordance with state law and the regulations contained in this
chapter. Subdivision of any parcel by metes and bounds description for the
purpose of sale, transfer or lease with the intent of evading the terms of
these regulations is prohibited.
   (C)   No plat shall be filed in the Finance Office and no lots therein sold
unless and until approved as herein provided. The Register of Deeds shall not
record any document of any sale or transfer of such property. Any such
unapproved plat recorded is invalid, and the City Council may institute
proceedings to have the plat stricken from the records.
   (D)   No zoning permit or building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any building or structure located on a lot subdivided or sold
in violation of the provisions of these regulations. The authority to deny such
a permit shall apply whether the applicant was the owner of record at the time
of such violation or is the current owner of record or a vendee of the current
owner pursuant to a contract of sale with, or without, actual or constructive
knowledge of the violation at the time of acquisition of interest in said real
property.
   (E)   This section shall not be construed to require all subdivision
criteria to be met prior to transfer of the entire projected subdivision to
another person.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-202) Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.021 CLASSIFICATION OF SUBDIVISIONS.
   Classification of the subdivision shall be the responsibility of and within
the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission, with the recommendation
of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, and shall be based upon
the impact of the proposed subdivision on city infrastructure.
   (A)   A MINOR SUBDIVISION is defined as any subdivision creating more than
one and not more than four lots fronting on an existing street; not involving
any new street or road, the extension of municipal facilities or the creation
of any public improvements; not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel
or adjoining property; and not in conflict with any provisions or portion of
the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, official map, zoning ordinance or these
regulations.
   (B)   A MAJOR SUBDIVISION is defined as a subdivision not classified as a
minor subdivision, including, but not limited to, subdivisions of five or more
lots or any size of subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the
public facilities or the creation of any public improvements.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-204)
§ 158.022 DEVELOPMENT PROCESS.
   Proposed subdivision plats must be approved through either a two- or three-
phase development process depending on their classification. Subdivisions
classified as minor subdivisions require a sketch plat and a final subdivision
plat. Subdivisions classified as major subdivisions require a sketch plat, a
preliminary plat and a final subdivision plat.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-205)
§ 158.023 CHARACTER OF THE LAND.
   Land found to be unsuitable for subdivision or development due to flooding,
subsurface soil saturation, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations,
adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements or other features
which could reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of
the present, or future, inhabitants of the subdivision or its surrounding areas
shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by
the developer and approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission to solve the
problems created by the unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall be set
aside for uses as shall not involve such a danger.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-206)
§ 158.024 OFFICIAL SUBMISSION DATE.
   For the purpose of these regulations, for both major and minor subdivisions,
the date that the meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission for the public
hearing on approval of the subdivision plat is closed shall constitute the
official submittal date of the plan with which the statutory period required
for formal approval or disapproval of the plat shall commence to run.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-207)
§ 158.025 PLAN AND PLAT PREPARATION.
   All plans and plats referred to in this chapter shall be prepared by a
registered professional engineer, or other professional consultant or advisor,
in conformity with requirements of state law.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-208)
§ 158.026 REPLATS.
   If the land proposed for platting is a resubdivision, it shall require a
preliminary plan and a plat of the resubdivision requiring the same review and
approval procedures as the preliminary plan and the plat unless the
resubdivision meets the requirements set forth in §
158.115 of this chapter. The Planning and Zoning Commission may waive the
requirements for a preliminary plan if those requirements are met. Replats are
subject to the requirements set forth in §
158.021 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-209)
§ 158.027 FILING FEE.
   The developer shall pay to the Finance Office a filing fee as established by
resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-210)
§ 158.028 PLACEMENT OF CITY IN HARDSHIP.
   The developer or developers shall not place the city in any hardship or in
debt due to the requirements of this chapter for the city to stand the costs of
certain improvements. The City Council shall limit the extent of city
involvement in the proposed subdivision(s) to the funds available and
designated for such projects.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-211)
§ 158.029 CERTIFICATES FOR PRELIMINARY PLANS, PLATS AND REPLATS.
   Certificates shall be attached to the preliminary plat, plat or replat in a
form in compliance with state law and acceptable to the city, which at minimum
shall provide for City Council and Planning and Zoning Commission approval, a
registered land surveyor’s certification, owner’s certification and County
Office certification and ownership information.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-212)
SKETCH PLATS
§ 158.040 DISCUSSION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   Before preparing the sketch plat for a subdivision, the applicant may
discuss with the Director of Public Works or his or her designee the procedure
for adoption of a subdivision plat and the requirements as to general layout of
streets and for reservations of land, street improvements, drainage, sewerage,
fire protection and similar matters, as well as the availability of existing
services. The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall also advise
the applicant, where appropriate, to discuss the proposed subdivision with
those officials who must eventually approve these aspects of the subdivision
plat coming within their jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-301)
§ 158.041 APPLICATION AND SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Prior to subdividing land, an owner of the land or his or her
representative shall file an application for approval of a sketch plat.
   (B)   The application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available in the City Office;
      (2)   Include an address and telephone number of an agent located within
the territory of the city who shall be authorized to receive all notices
required by this chapter;
      (3)   Be accompanied by a minimum of seven copies of the sketch plat, as
described in these regulations and complying in all respects with these
regulations; and
      (4)   Be presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission in duplicate.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-302)
§ 158.042 SKETCH PLAT CONTENTS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sketch plats submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission may be
prepared in pen or pencil, and shall be drawn to a convenient scale of not more
than 100 feet to an inch, and shall show the following information:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision if the property is within an existing
subdivision or the proposed name if not within a previously platted
subdivision. The name shall not duplicate the name of any plat previously
recorded;
      (2)   Ownership, including the name, address and telephone number of the
legal owner and agent, if any, of the property, and citation of the last
instrument conveying title to each parcel of property involved in the proposed
subdivision, giving grantor, grantee, date and land records reference;
      (3)   Citation of any existing legal rights-of-way or easements affecting
the property;
      (4)   Existing covenants on the property, if any;
      (5)   Name and address, including telephone number, of the professional
person(s) responsible for subdivision design, for the design of public
improvements and for surveys;
      (6)   Physical description of the location of the property by government
lot, section, township, range and county and the graphic scale, north arrow and
date; and
      (7)   Features included in the sketch plat include:
         (a)   Location of property lines, existing easements, burial grounds,
section lines, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses and existing wooded areas
of trees eight inches or more in diameter, measured 12 inches above ground
level; location, width and names of all existing or platted streets or other
public ways within or immediately adjacent to the tract; location of floodways
or flood hazard areas; and names of adjoining property owners from the latest
assessment rolls within 500 feet of any perimeter boundary of the subdivision;
         (b)   Locations and sizes of sewers, water mains, culverts and other
underground structures within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto; and
existing permanent buildings and utility poles on or immediately adjacent to
the site and public and private utility rights-of-way;
         (c)   Approximate topography, at the same horizontal scale as the
sketch plat;
         (d)   The approximate locations and widths of proposed streets;
         (e)   Preliminary proposals for connection with existing water supply
and sanitary sewage systems or alternative means of providing water supply and
sanitary waste treatment and disposal; preliminary provisions for collecting
and discharging surface water drainage;
         (f)   The approximate locations, dimensions and areas of all proposed
and existing lots;
         (g)   The locations of temporary stakes to enable the Planning and
Zoning Commission to find and appraise features of the sketch plat in the
field;
         (h)   The approximate locations, dimensions and area of all parcels of
land proposed to be set aside for park or playground use or other public use,
or for the common use of property owners in the proposed subdivision;
         (i)   Contour intervals of ten feet or less; and
         (j)   Certifications (owner, treasurer, equalization and the like).
   (B)   Whenever the sketch plat covers only a part of an applicant’s
contiguous holdings, the applicant shall submit, at the scale of not more than
200 feet to the inch, a sketch in pen or pencil of the proposed subdivision
area, together with its proposed street system, and an indication of the
probable future street and drainage system of the remaining portion of the
tract.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-303)
§ 158.043 APPROVAL.
   After reviewing and discussing the sketch plat and other reports as
submitted by invited agencies and officials, the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee will advise the applicant of the specific changes or
additions, if any, he or she will require in the layout and the character and
extent of required improvements and reservations which are required as a
prerequisite to the submission of the subdivision plat. Approval by the
Director of Public Works shall constitute authorization to prepare and submit a
preliminary plat in the case of a major subdivision and a final subdivision
plat in the case of a minor subdivision. The Director of Public Works or his or
her designee shall make such approval or disapproval within 30 days after
receiving the sketch plat. Refusal of the Director of Public Works to submit a
sketch plat to the Planning and Zoning Commission may be appealed to the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-304)
§ 158.044 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES.
   Existing features which would add value to residential development or to the
city as a whole, or similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved in the
design of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-305)
PRELIMINARY PLATS
§ 158.055 APPLICATION AND SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Based upon the approval of the sketch plat, the applicant should file,
in duplicate, an application for approval of a preliminary plat.
   (B)   The application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available in the City Office;
      (2)   Include a fee of $10 per lot, as set forth in Ch. 110 of this code;
      (3)   Include all land which the applicant proposes to subdivide and all
land immediately adjacent extending 100 feet therefrom, or of that directly
opposite thereto, extending 100 feet from the street frontage of such opposite
land, with the names of the owners as shown in the Assessor’s files;
      (4)   Be accompanied by a minimum of ten copies of a preliminary plat as
described in these regulations;
      (5)   Be accompanied by a minimum of three copies of construction plans
as described in these regulations; and
      (6)   Comply in all respects with the sketch plat as approved.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may require that the application be
presented to it at least four weeks prior to the meeting of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-401)
§ 158.056 PRELIMINARY PLAT CONTENTS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed land surveyor at
a convenient scale not more than 100 feet per one inch, shall be prepared in
pen, the sheets shall be numbered in sequence, if more than one sheet is used,
and shall be of such size as is acceptable for filing in the office of the
Register of Deeds, but shall not be larger than 34 by 34 inches.
   (B)   A map prepared for the preliminary plat may also be used for the final
subdivision plat, and therefore, may be drawn on tracing cloth or reproducible
Mylar.
   (C)   A preliminary plat shall include:
      (1)   The location of property with respect to surrounding property and
streets; the names of all adjoining property owners of record or the names of
adjoining developments; and the names of adjoining streets;
      (2)   The locations and dimensions of all boundary lines of the property,
to be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot;
      (3)   The locations of existing streets, easements, encroachments, water
bodies, streams, floodways or flood hazard areas and of other pertinent
features, such as swamps, railroads, buildings, parks, cemeteries, drainage
ditches or bridges, as may be requested by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (4)   The locations and widths of all existing and proposed streets and
easements, alleys and other public ways, and of easements and proposed street
rights-of-way and building setback lines;
      (5)   The locations, dimensions and areas of all proposed or existing
lots;
      (6)   The locations and dimensions of all property proposed to be set
aside for park or playground use, or for other public or private reservation,
with designation of the purpose thereof and conditions, if any, of the
dedication or reservation;
      (7)   The name and address of the owner or owners of the land to be
subdivided, the name and address of the subdivider, if other than owner, and
the name of the land surveyor;
      (8)   The date of the map, approximate true north point, scale and title
of the subdivision;
      (9)   Sufficient data, acceptable to the Director of Public Works or his
or her designee, to determine readily the location, bearing and length of all
lines and to reproduce such lines upon the ground; the location of all proposed
monuments;
      (10)   Names of the subdivision and all new streets, subject to approval
by the City Council;
      (11)   Indication of the use of any lot (single-family, two-family,
multi-family, townhouse) and all uses other than residential proposed by the
subdivider;
      (12)   All lots in each block, consecutively numbered; outlots shall be
lettered in alphabetical order. If blocks are numbered or lettered, outlots
shall be lettered in alphabetical order within each block;
      (13)   All information required on a sketch plat should also be shown on
the preliminary plat, and the following notation shall also be shown:
         (a)   Explanation of drainage easements, if any;
         (b)   Explanation of site easements, if any;
         (c)   Explanation of reservations, if any; and
         (d)   Endorsement of owner, as follows:
 
____________________ _______
Owner      Date
 
      (14)   Form for endorsement by Commission Chairperson, as follows:
 
Approved by Resolution of the __________ Planning and Zoning Commission.
____________________ _______
Chairperson   Date
 
   (D)   The lack of information under any item specified herein, or improper
information supplied by the applicant, shall be cause for disapproval of a
preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-402)
§ 158.057 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Construction plans shall be prepared for all required improvements.
Plans shall be drawn at a scale of not more than one inch equals 50 feet, and
map sheets shall be of the same size as the preliminary plat.
   (B)   The following shall be shown:
      (1)   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center
lines of all roads; where a proposed road intersects an existing road or roads,
within 100 feet of the intersection shall be shown; approximate radii of all
curves; and lengths of tangents and central angles on all streets;
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may require that where steep
slopes exist, the cross- sections of all proposed streets at 100-foot stations
shall be shown at five points, as follows: on a line at right angles to the
center line of the street, each property line and points 25 feet inside each
property line;
      (3)   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross-section,
conforming to the city’s Standard Specifications for Construction, as amended,
of street pavements, including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage
easements, servitudes, rights-of-way, manholes and catch basins; the locations
of street trees, street lighting standards and street signs; the location, size
and invert elevations of existing and proposed utility systems; and the exact
location and size of all water, gas or other underground utilities or
structures;
      (4)   Location, size, elevation and other appropriate description of any
existing facilities or utilities, including, but not limited to, existing
streets, sewers, drains, water mains, easements, water bodies, streams and
other pertinent features, such as swamps, railroads, buildings and features
noted on the official map or Comprehensive Land Use Plan, at the point of
connection to proposed facilities and utilities within the subdivision; the
water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of the survey and
the approximate high- and low-water elevations of such lakes or streams. All
elevations shall be referred to the current United States Geodetic Survey datum
plane. If the subdivision borders a lake, river or stream, the distances and
bearings of a meander line established not less than 20 feet back from the
ordinary high-water mark of such waterway;
      (5)   Topography, at the same scale as the sketch plat, with a contour
interval of two feet, referred to sea level datum. All data provided shall be
the latest applicable U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey datum and should be so
noted on the plat;
      (6)   All specifications and references required by the city’s Standard
Specifications for Construction, as amended, including a site grading plan for
the entire subdivision;
      (7)   Notation of approval, as follows:
 
____________________ _______
Owner    Date
____________________ _______
Planning and Zoning Date
Commission Chairperson
 
      (8)   Title, name, address and signature of professional engineer and
surveyor and date, including revision dates.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-403)
§ 158.058 PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   After the Planning and Zoning Commission has reviewed the preliminary
plat and construction plans, any municipal recommendations and the testimony
and exhibits submitted at the public hearing, the applicant shall be advised of
any required changes or additions. The Commission shall approve, conditionally
approve or disapprove the preliminary plat within 30 days after the review of
the application.
   (B)   One copy of the proposed preliminary plat shall be returned to the
developer with the date of approval, conditional approval or disapproval and
the reasons therefore accompanying the plat.
   (C)   Before the Commission approves a preliminary plat showing a park
reservation or land for other city use proposed to be dedicated to the city,
the Commission shall obtain approval of the park or land reservation from the
City Council.
   (D)   Approval of the preliminary plan shall indicate approval of the
development concept only, and it does not constitute an acceptance or approval
of the subdivision plan; therefore, no zoning permits or building permits shall
be issued based on the approval of the preliminary plan.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-404)
§ 158.059 EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF PRELIMINARY PLAN APPROVAL.
   The approval of a preliminary plan shall be effective for a period of one
year, at the end of which time final approval of the subdivision plat, or a
portion thereof, must have been obtained from the Planning and Zoning
Commission, although the plat need not yet be signed and filed with the County
Register of Deeds. Any plan which has not received approval of all or a portion
of the plan in that time shall be null and void, and the developer shall be
required to resubmit a preliminary plat for approval subject to any new zoning
restrictions and subdivision regulations.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-405)
§ 158.060 REVISIONS TO PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   Minor amendments requested by or approved by the owner to an approved
preliminary plan may be made at the discretion of the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-406)
§ 158.061 ZONING REGULATIONS.
   Every plat shall conform to existing zoning regulations and subdivision
regulations applicable at the time of proposed final approval, except that any
plat which has received preliminary approval shall be exempt from any
subsequent amendments to the zoning ordinance rendering the plat nonconforming
as to bulk or use, provided that final approval is obtained within the one-year
period.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-407)
§ 158.062 GRADING OF SITE PRIOR TO FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Subsequent to approval of a preliminary plat, the developer or
landowner must apply for a grading and excavation permit from the Public Works
Director or such other agency or person as the City Council shall direct, and
upon receipt of such permit, may commence construction to the grades and
elevations required by the approved preliminary plat. No excavation, grading or
fill may be done without first obtaining a grading and excavation permit from
the Public Works Director or his or her designee.
   (B)   Whenever the Public Works Director determines that any existing
excavation or embankment or fill on private property has become a hazard to
life or endangers the property of others, or adversely affects the safety, use
or stability of a public way or drainage channel, the owner of the property
upon which such excavation or fill is located, or other person or agent in
control of said property, upon receipt of notice in writing from the Public
Works Director or his or her designee, shall, within the period specified
therein, repair or eliminate such excavation or embankment to eliminate the
hazard and to be in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The application for a grading and excavation permit shall state the
estimated quantities of work involved. If there are multiple sites, a separate
permit shall be obtained for each site. Such permit is subject to a permit fee
as set by resolution per the City Council.
   (D)   Grading or excavation in excess of 1,000 cubic yards shall be
performed in accordance with an approved grading plan prepared by a civil
engineer. For grading or excavation involving less than 1,000 cubic yards, an
approved grading plan prepared by a civil engineer may be required when the
Public Works Director or his or her designee determines that unique hazards or
special conditions exist.
   (E)   Application for a grading and excavation permit must be accompanied by
two sets of plans and specifications and supporting data consisting of a soils
engineering report and engineering geology report. The plans and specifications
shall be prepared and signed by an individual licensed by the state to prepare
such plans or specifications when required by the Public Works Director.
Specifications shall contain information covering construction and materials
requirements.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-408) (Ord. 989, passed - -) Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.063 INFORMAL REVIEW AND DETERMINATION OF NEED FOR PROFESSIONAL
ASSISTANCE.
   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee may informally review
the preliminary plan with the Planning Commission and the developer without
notice and hearing, and as a result of such informal review, and if requested
by the Planning Commission, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
may direct the developer to retain, at the developer’s expense, the assistance
of a registered engineer, architect, landscape architect or other professional
consultant or advisor to consult with and advise the Planning Commission on any
or all aspects of the preliminary plan. The review process of the preliminary
plan may be continued during the period of any such consultation. If the
developer fails to promptly retain and provide such professional assistance
upon request, the preliminary plan shall be deemed to have been withdrawn by
the developer. The procedures in this section may be further requested and
invoked, for good cause, by the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee, the Planning Commission or the City Council at any stage of approval
of preliminary plans or final plans.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-409)
FINAL PLANS AND THE PLAT
§ 158.075 APPLICATION AND SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Following the approval of the preliminary plat in the case of a major
subdivision, or of a sketch plat in the case of a minor subdivision, the
developer, if he or she wishes to proceed with the subdivision, shall file with
the Planning and Zoning Commission an application for approval of the final
subdivision plat. Final drainage and grading plans shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for review and approval. Any or all of these
plans may be deleted at the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   The application shall:
       (1)   Be made on forms prescribed by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (2)   Include the entire subdivision, or section thereof, which derives
access from an existing state, county or city highway;
      (3)   Comply in all respects with the sketch plat or preliminary plat as
approved, whichever is applicable depending on the classification of the
subdivision;
      (4)   Be presented to the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
and the Planning and Zoning Commission in order that a public hearing may be
scheduled and the required legal notice given. The Commission may require the
application to be presented up to four weeks prior to the public hearing. The
date that the regular public hearing regarding final approval, including any
adjourned date thereof, is closed shall constitute the official submittal date
of the plat for the purposes of these regulations;
      (5)   Be accompanied by a performance bond or other surety, if required,
in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney and in an amount established by the
City Council. The performance bond or other surety shall include a provision
that the principal of the performance bond or other surety shall comply with
all of the terms of the final subdivision plat approval by the City Council.
The principal shall include, but not be limited to, the performance of all
required subdivision and off-site improvements and the irrevocable offer of
dedication of all improvements and land to the city, free and clear of all
liens and encumbrances on the premises; and
      (6)   Be accompanied by:
         (a)   An inspection and filing fee of $10 per lot, as set forth in Ch.
110 of this code;
         (b)   Written assurance from the public utility companies and
improvement districts that necessary utilities will be installed;
         (c)   Proof that the applicant has submitted petitions in writing for
the creation or extension of any improvement districts as required by the
Planning and Zoning Commission upon preliminary plat approval;
         (d)   At least ten copies of the final subdivision plat and three sets
of construction plans;
         (e)   Number ten envelopes addressed to each owner of property
immediately adjacent extending 100 feet therefrom, or of that directly opposite
thereto, extending 100 feet from the street frontage of such opposite property
owners, as are correct within the knowledge of the applicant as shown on the
latest tax assessment roll and bearing sufficient postage to be mailed
certified mail, return receipt requested; and
         (f)   A formal, irrevocable offer of dedication to the public of all
streets, city uses, utilities, parks and easements in a form approved by the
City Attorney; the subdivision plat shall be marked with a notation indicating
the formal offer of dedication as follows.
 
The owner hereby irrevocably offers for dedication to the City, all the
streets, city uses, easements, parks and required utility easements shown in
the within subdivision plat and construction plans, in accordance with
irrevocable offers of dedication dated______________________, and recorded in
the County Register of Deeds Office.
 
(By) ______________________________________________
Owner or Representative/Agent
(Date) ____________________________________________
 
 
(Prior Code, § Q-12-501)
§ 158.076 PLAT CONTENTS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The final subdivision plat shall be presented in India ink on tracing
cloth or reproducible Mylar at the same scale and contain the same information,
except for any changes or additions required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, as shown on the preliminary plat. The preliminary plat may be used
as the final subdivision plat if it meets these requirements and is revised in
accordance with the Planning and Zoning Commission’s requirements.
   (B)   All revision dates must be shown, as well as the following:
      (1)   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions and the locations of any
building lines proposed to be established in this manner;
      (2)   Lots numbered as approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
and
      (3)   All monuments erected and corners and other points established in
the field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners
or other points are made shall be noted at the representation thereof or be
legend, except that lot corners need not be shown. The legend for metal
monuments shall indicate the kind of metal and the diameter of the monument.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-502)
§ 158.077 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   Upon receipt of the formal application and all accompanying materials, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall call a public hearing to be commenced not
more than four weeks after the date of the application. The Director of Public
Works or his or her designee shall submit a notice for publication in one
newspaper of general circulation, to be published at least ten days prior to
the commencement of the public hearing, and mail notices to all property owners
at least ten days prior to the commencement of the public hearing. The Director
of Public Works or his or her designee shall maintain file copies of the plat
and construction plans for public review prior to the hearing. One sign shall
be placed on the property in a visible location from the closest public road
and flagged, lath placed in each of the corners of the proposed subdivision
property at least ten days prior to the public hearing.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-503) (Ord. 847, passed - -)
§ 158.078 PUBLIC HEARING AND DETERMINATION.
   At the public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission will give an
opportunity to any interested persons to examine or comment upon the plat and
construction plans. After the public hearing and within 30 days after final
closing of the public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall by
resolution make a formal recommendation to the City Council to approve, modify
and approve or disapprove the subdivision application. The resolution shall set
forth in detail any conditions which the Commission recommends as conditions
for approval or reasons for recommended disapproval. The resolution shall then
be given to the City Council for final approval of the plat. One copy of the
final subdivision plat shall be returned to the subdivider, with the date of
the recommendation, recommended approval, conditional approval or disapproval
noted thereon, and the reasons therefore, accompanying the plat.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-504)
§ 158.079 SUBMISSION AND REVIEW.
   Subsequent to the resolution of the Planning and Zoning Commission, three
paper copies of the construction plans, one copy of the original subdivision
plat on tracing cloth or reproducible Mylar and ten copies of the subdivision
plat on paper shall be submitted to the City Council for final review. No final
approval shall be endorsed on the plat until a review has indicated that all
requirements of the resolution have been met.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-505)
§ 158.080 VESTED RIGHTS.
   No vested rights shall accrue to any plat by reason of preliminary or final
approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission until the approval of the plat
by the City Council and signing of the plat by the Mayor. All requirements,
conditions or regulations adopted by the City Council applicable to the
subdivision, or on all subdivisions generally, shall be deemed a condition for
any subdivision to meet prior to the time of the signing of the final plat.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-506)
§ 158.081 SIGNING OF SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   After final approval by the City Council, the Mayor shall sign the
subdivision plat. When a bond or other surety is required, the Mayor and the
Finance Officer or his or her designee shall endorse approval on the plat after
the bond or other surety has been approved by the City Council and all the
conditions of the resolution pertaining to the plat have been satisfied.
   (B)   When installation of improvements is required as a condition of
approval, the Mayor and the Finance Officer or his or her designee shall
endorse approval on the plat after all conditions of the resolution have been
satisfied and all improvements satisfactorily completed. There shall be written
evidence that the required public facilities have been installed in a manner
satisfactory to the city, as shown by a certificate signed by the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee that the necessary dedication of public
lands and improvements has been accomplished.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-507)
§ 158.082 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   A development agreement shall specify the works to be completed, the date of
completion, which may be in phases, and shall allow the city, in its sole
discretion, to determine whether the bond or surety shall be used to complete
the development agreement.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-508)
§ 158.083 RECORDING OF PLAT.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Finance Officer or his or her designee
to file the plat with the County Register of Deeds Office within 30 days of the
date that all signatures are obtained. Simultaneously, the Finance Officer or
his or her designee shall record the agreement of dedication, together with
such legal documents as shall be required to be recorded by the City Attorney.
The subdivider shall provide a check which is payable to the Register of Deeds
in the amount of the current filing fee.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-509)
§ 158.084 FINANCIAL ASSURANCE FOR NEW IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Waiver and alternative. The City Council, in its discretion, may waive
the requirement that the applicant complete and dedicate all public
improvements prior to the signing of the subdivision plat, and in the
alternative, post a performance bond or other financial assurance satisfactory
to the City Council at the time of application for final approval in an amount
estimated by the Council as sufficient to secure to the city the satisfactory
construction, installation and dedication of the uncompleted improvements. The
financial assurance shall also secure all lot improvements on the individual
lots of the subdivision as required in these regulations. The financial
assurance shall accompany a development agreement.
   (B)   Financial assurances.
      (1)   Such financial assurance shall comply with all statutory
requirements and shall be satisfactory to the City Attorney as to form,
sufficiency and manner of execution as set forth in these regulations.
      (2)   The period for such financial assurance and completion of the
development plan shall be specified by the City Council.
      (3)   Such financial assurance shall be approved by the City Council as
to amount, surety and conditions. The applicant’s engineer shall provide a list
of estimated quantities and costs for each improvement to assist in
establishing the amount of financial assurance.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may, upon proof of difficulty,
recommend to the City Council extension of the completion date set forth in
such financial assurance for a maximum period of one year.
      (5)   The City Council may at any time during the period of such
financial assurance accept a substitution of principal or sureties on the
financial assurance.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-510)
§ 158.085 SECTIONALIZING MAJOR SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   Prior to granting final approval of a major subdivision plat, the City
Council may permit or require the plat to be divided into two or more sections
and may impose such conditions upon the filing of the sections as it may deem
necessary to assure the orderly development of the subdivision.
   (B)   The Council may require that the performance bond or other surety be
in such amount as is commensurate with the section or sections of the plat to
be filed and may defer the remaining required performance bond or other surety
principal amount until the remaining section(s) of the plat are offered for
filing.
   (C)   In the event of approval of sectionalizing, the entire approved
subdivision plat, including all sections, shall be filed by the Finance Office
within 90 days after date of final approval, and such sections as have been
authorized by the City Council shall be filed with the Register of Deeds. Such
sections must contain at least 10% of the total number of lots contained in the
entire approved subdivision plat. The approval of all remaining sections not
filed with the Register of Deeds shall automatically expire unless such
sections have been approved for filing by the City Council, all fees paid, all
instruments and offers of dedication submitted and performance bond or other
surety approved and actually filed with the Register of Deeds within three
years of the date of final approval of the subdivision plat.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-511)
DRAINAGE AND GRADING
§ 158.100 DRAINAGE PLAN.
   (A)   All drainage facilities, including on-site detention, storm sewer
systems, drainageways, floodplains, detention ponds and drainage channels,
shall be shown on a drainage plan and approved by the City Council with the
recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee. The developer may be required to expand
the drainage plan to include other properties within the drainage basin when
the city determines the potential exists for impact beyond the development
area, both upstream and downstream.
   (B)   The plan shall provide the following information:
      (1)   Existing and proposed contour lines and the surface water drainage
system, including any major alteration of the existing drainage pattern.
Drainageways and detention ponds shall be designed for a 25-year storm
occurrence. The contour interval shall be of such detail that the final
drainage pattern is adequately illustrated;
      (2)   The boundaries of all drainage easements and detention ponds. A
maintenance agreement for the upkeep of the detention ponds shall be filed with
the plat;
      (3)   Individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
surface drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to
avoid a concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent lots;
and
      (4)   Any other information or drainage plans that the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall require.
   (C)   Wherever possible, the developer shall utilize existing city storm
sewers. Detention ponds shall be discouraged, but may be allowed when no other
reasonable alternative exists. Any such pond shall be designed for the absolute
minimum term of storage, not to exceed three days.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-601)
§ 158.101 GRADING PLAN.
   (A)   A grading plan for the subdivision shall be submitted to and approved
by the City Council with the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
   (B)   The plan shall include the following information:
      (1)   The site grading plan shall show existing and finish contours with
intervals acceptable to the Commission. The plan shall also show the discharge
route from point of collection to outlet, including drainage arrows for each
lot;
      (2)   The street grading plan shall show percent slope for all proposed
streets, drainage arrows and the location and size of culverts; and
      (3)   Any other information or grading plans the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall require.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-602)
§ 158.102 SEDIMENT AND EROSION CONTROL PLAN.
   A sediment and erosion control plan which complies with the sediment and
erosion control standards of the County Conservation District shall be
submitted. The plan shall be reviewed by the Conservation District and shall be
enforced by the city.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-603)
§ 158.103 APPROVAL LIMITATIONS.
   Approval of a drainage plan shall not be construed to confer upon any person
any right or easement to divert or drain water from the development area over
any other lands for which legal drainage rights have not been otherwise
established.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-604)
REPLATS AND PLAT VACATIONS
§ 158.115 REPLATS.
   (A)   If the land proposed for platting is a resubdivision, it shall require
a preliminary plan and a final plan of the subdivision requiring the same
review and approval procedures, including the fees, as the original preliminary
and final plans.
   (B)   However, if the resubdivision meets the following requirements, then
it may be submitted as a final plat:
      (1)   The perimeter of the tract being replatted shall not be altered by
the replat;
      (2)   The previous platting lines shall be shown on the plat; and
      (3)   The grades and drainage shall not be changed from the plans which
were submitted and approved with the original plat. If the grades are to be
changed, or if no drainage plan was submitted with the original plat, then
drainage and grading plans must be submitted and approved for the
resubdivision.
   (C)   Plats shall include a reference to prior plats, including the book,
page or document number of all previous plats sought to be “vacated in whole or
in part.”
(Prior Code, § Q-12-701)
§ 158.116 VACATION OF PLATS.
   Any plat or any part of a plat intended to be vacated shall be presented to
the Planning Commission for a recommendation and to the City Council for
approval. Vacation of a plat may be approved when the vacation will not
interfere with the development of, nor deny access via public streets to,
adjoining properties, utility services or other improvements.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-702)
IMPROVEMENTS GENERALLY
§ 158.130 COSTS OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   All required improvements shall be made by the applicant, at his or her
expense, without reimbursement or contribution or consideration by the city.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-801)
§ 158.131 ASSURANCES REQUIRED FOR IMPROVEMENTS ON EXISTING PLATS.
   The developer of land previously subdivided shall be required to post a bond
or irrevocable letter of credit, performance bond or other surety, at the
discretion of the city, assuring completion of all required improvements which
have not been completed at the time of adoption of this chapter, in such form,
manner and amount as shall be acceptable to the City Council, to guarantee
completion of all required improvements. Whether or not a certificate of
occupancy has been issued at the expiration of the performance bond or other
surety, the city may enforce the provisions of the performance bond or other
surety where the provisions of this chapter, or any other applicable law,
agreement, ordinance or regulation, have not been met.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-802)
§ 158.132 GOVERNMENTAL UNITS.
   Governmental units to which these bonds or other sureties and contract
provisions apply may file, in lieu of said contract or bond or other surety, a
certified resolution or ordinance from officers or agencies authorized to act
on their behalf agreeing to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-803)
§ 158.133 INSPECTION PROCEDURE AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall provide for inspection of required improvements during
construction and ensure their satisfactory completion. The applicant shall pay
to the city an inspection fee of 2% of the amount of the performance bond or
other surety, or the estimated cost of required improvements, or the actual
cost of testing, and the subdivision plat shall not be signed unless such fee
has been paid at the time of application. These fees shall be due to and
payable upon demand of the city, and no building permits or certificates of
occupancy shall be issued until all fees are paid.
   (B)   If the Director of Public Works or his or her designee finds, upon
inspection, that any of the required improvements have not been constructed in
accordance with the city’s Standard Specifications for Construction, as
amended, or the development agreement, the applicant shall be responsible for
completing the improvements. Wherever the cost of improvements is covered by a
performance bond or other surety, the applicant and the bond or surety company
shall be jointly and severally liable for completing the improvements according
to specifications.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-804)
§ 158.134 ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATION OFFERS.
   Acceptance of formal offers of dedication of streets, public areas,
easements and parks shall be by resolution of the City Council. The
recommendation of approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission of a
subdivision plat shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by
the City Council of any street, easement or park shown on said plat.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-805)
§ 158.135 CERTIFICATE OF SATISFACTORY COMPLETION.
   The City Council will not accept dedication of required improvements, nor
release nor reduce a performance bond or other surety, until the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee has submitted a certificate stating that
all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and until the
applicant’s engineer or surveyor has certified to the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee, through submission of detailed “as-built” plans of the
subdivision indicating location, dimensions, materials and other information
required by the Planning and Zoning Commission, that the layout of the line and
grade of all public improvements is in accordance with construction plans for
the subdivision and the improvements completed are ready for dedication to the
city and are free and clear of any and all liens and encumbrances. Upon such
approval and recommendation, the City Council shall thereafter accept the
improvements for dedication in accordance with the established procedure.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-806)
§ 158.136 REDUCTION OF A PERFORMANCE BOND OR OTHER SURETY.
   A performance bond or other surety shall be reduced upon actual dedication
of public improvements, and then only to the ratio that the public improvement
dedicated bears to the total public improvements for the development.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-807)
§ 158.137 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The developer shall be required to maintain all improvements on the
individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on streets and
sidewalks, if required, until acceptance by action of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-808) Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.138 TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENTS.
   The developer shall build and pay for all costs of temporary improvements
required by the City Council and shall maintain same for the period specified
by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Prior to construction of any temporary
facility or improvement, the developer shall file with the city a separate
suitable bond or other surety for temporary facilities, which bond or other
surety shall ensure that the temporary facilities will be properly constructed,
maintained and removed.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-809)
§ 158.139 DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Council may defer or waive at the time of final approval, subject
to appropriate conditions, the provisions of any or all such improvements as,
in its judgment, are not requisite in the interests of the public health,
safety and general welfare, or which are inappropriate because of inadequacy or
lack of connecting facilities.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-810)
§ 158.140 FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   For subdivisions for which no performance bond or other surety has
been posted, if the improvements are not completed within the period specified
by the Planning and Zoning Commission in the resolution recommending approval
of the plat, the approval shall be deemed to have expired.
   (B)   In those cases where a performance bond or other surety has been
posted and required improvements have not been installed within the terms of
such performance bond or other surety, the city may thereupon declare the
performance bond or other surety to be in default and require that all the
improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the building development
at the time the performance bond or other surety is declared to be in default.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-811)
§ 158.141 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Where a performance bond or other surety has been required for a
subdivision, no certificate of occupancy for any building in the subdivision
shall be issued prior to the completion of the improvements and dedication of
same to the city as required in the final approval of the subdivision plat.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for the final 10% of lots in a
subdivision, or in the case where 10% is less than two lots, then no building
permit shall be issued for the final two lots of a subdivision, until all
required public improvements for the plat have been fully completed and
dedicated to the city.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-812)
§ 158.142 FENCING.
   Each subdivider or developer shall be required to furnish and install fences
wherever the Planning and Zoning Commission determines that a hazardous
condition may exist. The fences shall be constructed according to standards
established by the Director of Public Works and shall be noted as to height and
material on the final plat. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until
said fence improvements have been duly installed.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-813)
§ 158.143 LOT VACATION REQUIREMENTS.
   When a residence, building or other structure capable of receiving utility
services has been removed or demolished, the following minimum requirements for
reclamation shall be met.
   (A)   The property owner shall be responsible for termination of all utility
services to the property, including, but not limited to, water, sewer,
electric, cable, phone and gas, at the property boundary or, where deemed
appropriate by the Director of Public Works, at a more distant utility
distribution point. The termination of utility services shall be performed in
accordance with the requirements of the utility provider.
   (B)   The property owner shall be responsible for notifying the utility
provider and the city of the locations of the termination points for any
utility services.
   (C)   No personal property, garbage or debris, including concrete, wood,
pipe, wire or cable, may be placed or remain on the property as fill.
   (D)   All costs for capping or terminating utility services, including any
fee owed to the utility provider, shall be the responsibility of the lot owner.
   (E)   The property owner shall be responsible for controlling noxious weeds
and providing proper drainage on the property.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-814) Penalty, see § 158.99
BLOCKS, MONUMENTS AND LOTS
§ 158.155 BLOCKS.
   (A)   The length and shape of blocks shall be determined with regard to the
provision of adequate building sites suitable to the needs of the use
contemplated; the need for convenient access, circulation and safety of
traffic; and topographic conditions.
   (B)   Residential block lengths shall be a minimum of 400 feet and shall not
exceed 1,200 feet. In long blocks, the Planning and Zoning Commission may
require the reservation of an easement through the block to accommodate
utilities, drainage facilities or pedestrian traffic.
   (C)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide two tiers of lots of an
appropriate depth. Exceptions to the width requirement shall be permitted in
blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads or waterways. Other zoning district
classification block dimensions shall be as approved.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-901)
§ 158.156 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Permanent reference monuments shall be placed on or at:
      (1)   Block corners;
      (2)   Lot corners;
      (3)   Street right-of-way lines;
      (4)   Street intersections;
      (5)   Angle points of curves;
      (6)   The ends of curves;
      (7)   Points where a river or stream changes its radius;
      (8)   Angle points of any line; and
      (9)   Any other internal boundaries.
   (B)   Lot lines that extend to rivers or streams shall be monumented at the
point of intersection of the river or stream lot line with a meander line
established not less than 20 feet back from the bank of the river or stream.
   (C)   Monuments shall be spaced so as to be within sight of one another and
not more than 1,400 feet apart. Monuments shall be properly set in the ground
and approved by a registered land surveyor prior to the time the Planning and
Zoning Commission recommends approval of the final plat.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-902)
§ 158.157 LOTS.
   (A)   The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing
building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning ordinance
and in providing driveway access to buildings on such lots from an approved
street.
   (B)   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of the zoning
ordinance. Where lots are more than double the minimum required area for the
zoning district, the Planning and Zoning Commission may require that such lots
be arranged so as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future
streets where they would be necessary to serve such potential lots, all in
compliance with the zoning ordinance and these regulations. In general, side
lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines (or radial to curving street
lines) unless a variation from this rule will give a better street or lot plan.
Dimensions of corner lots shall be large enough to allow for the erection of
buildings observing the minimum front yard setback from both streets. The depth
and width of properties reserved or laid out for business, commercial or
industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street parking and
loading facilities required for the type of use and development contemplated as
established in the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall be avoided except
where necessary to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
Driveways for such lots shall have access only to an interior subdivision road.
   (D)   Lots shall not, in general, derive access exclusively from a major
street. Where driveway access from a major street may be necessary for several
adjoining lots, the Planning and Zoning Commission may require that such lots
be served by a combined access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazard
on such street. Where possible, driveways should be designed and arranged so as
to avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on major or secondary
arterials designated on the Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
   (E)   If a tract being subdivided contains a water body or portion thereof,
lot lines shall be so drawn as to distribute the entire ownership of the water
body among the owners of adjacent lots. The Planning and Zoning Commission may
recommend approval of an alternative plan whereby the ownership and
responsibility for safe maintenance of the water body is so placed that it will
not become a city responsibility. Not more than 25% of the minimum area of a
lot required under the zoning ordinance may be satisfied by land which is
underwater. Where a watercourse separates the buildable area of a lot from the
street by which it has access, provisions shall be made for installation of a
culvert or other structure of a design approved by the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee.
   (F)   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from
all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the
general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as
to avoid the concentration of storm drainage water from any lot to adjacent
lots.
   (G)   No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones, soil, junk,
rubbish or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried in any land or
left or deposited on any lot or street at the time of the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy, and removal of same shall be required prior to
issuance of any certificate of occupancy on a subdivision; nor shall any be
left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at the time of expiration of
the performance bond or other surety or dedication of public improvements,
whichever is sooner.
   (H)   Plats for residential developments adjacent to a functioning railroad
right-of-way shall provide additional lot depth or width to provide sufficient
setback to offset the impact of the railroad traffic.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-903) Penalty, see § 158.99
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND STORM SEWERS
§ 158.170 STREET ARRANGEMENT AND DESIGN.
   (A)   A subdivision shall have frontage on and access from an existing
public street on the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, or if there is no
Comprehensive Land Use Plan, such street shall be:
      (1)   An existing state, county or township highway; or
      (2)   A street shown upon a plat approved by the City Council and
recorded in the County Register of Deeds Office. Such street or highway must be
suitably improved, as required by the State Department of Transportation’s
highway rules, regulations, specifications and orders, or be secured by a
performance bond or other surety required under these subdivision regulations.
   (B)   Streets shall be graded and improved and conform to the city’s
Standard Specifications for Construction, as amended, and State Department of
Transportation requirements. They shall be approved as to design and
specifications by the Director of Public Works in accordance with the
construction plans required to be submitted prior to final plat approval.
   (C)   Streets shall be related to topography and arranged so building sites
are at or above street grade.
   (D)   Streets shall be properly integrated with the existing system of
streets or proposed streets in the Comprehensive Plan, including connecting
adjacent subdivisions where topographical and land use considerations permit.
No building permits will be issued until the curb and gutter has been installed
in streets adjacent to the proposed construction. This is for the purpose of
establishing floor elevations for new structures.
   (E)   Streets shall be properly related to special traffic generators, such
as industries, business districts, schools, churches and shopping centers; to
population densities; and to the pattern of existing and proposed land uses.
   (F)   Streets shall extend to subdivision boundary lines unless prevented by
topography or other physical conditions.
   (G)   Streets shall be arranged to allow access to future subdivisions on
abutting land.
   (H)   Streets shall be permanently dedicated as public rights-of-way when
accepted by the city.
   (I)   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of
movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
   (J)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the following may be required: frontage roads, reverse frontage lots
with screen planting along the rear property line or other such treatment as
may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties.
   (K)   Subdivisions platted along existing streets shall dedicate additional
rights-of-way if necessary to meet minimum street width requirements.
   (L)   The arrangement of streets shall provide for the continuation of
principal streets between adjacent properties when such continuation is
necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire protection and
efficient provision of utilities and where such continuation is in accordance
with the City Plan. Half streets and dead-end streets shall be prohibited. Cul-
de-sacs designed to be permanent shall not be longer than 500 feet and shall
include a turnaround. If the adjacent property is undeveloped and the street
must be a dead-end street temporarily, the right-of-way shall be extended to
the property line. A temporary T- or L-shaped turnabout shall be provided on
all temporary dead-end streets, with the notation on the subdivision plat that
land outside the normal street right-of-way shall revert to abuttors whenever
the street is continued. The Planning and Zoning Commission may limit the
length of temporary dead-end streets in accordance with the design standards of
these regulations.
   (M)   Where a road does not extend to the boundary of the subdivision and
the Planning and Zoning Commission does not require its continuation for access
to adjoining property, its terminus shall normally not be nearer to such
boundary than 50 feet. The Planning and Zoning Commission may require the
reservation of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage facilities,
pedestrian traffic or utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at
the end of a permanent dead-end street in accordance with the city’s Standard
Specifications for Construction, as amended.
   (N)   Streets subject to inundation or flooding shall not be approved unless
essential where unusual circumstances exist. Where flooding appears possible,
street profiles and elevations shall be required in order to determine the
advisability of approving the proposed subdivision.
   (O)   Regarding intersections:
      (1)   Acute angles are to be avoided if possible, but no angle of less
than 75 degrees shall be permitted;
      (2)   Not more than two streets shall intersect at one point unless
specifically approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council;
      (3)   Intersection offsets of less than 150 feet shall not be permitted,
except were the intersected street has separated dual drives without median
breaks at either intersection; and
      (4)   Intersections of major streets shall be at least 800 feet apart.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1001)
§ 158.171 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   All street names shall be approved by the City Council with the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Streets shall be named, numbered or lettered consistent with the
existing addressing system within the community. Generally, STREETS are roads
running north and south and AVENUES are roads running east and west. No road
names shall be used which duplicate, are the same in spelling or are alike in
pronunciation with any other existing roads. Street names shall not exceed 15
letters, including spaces and street or avenue abbreviations, to accommodate
the width of street signs.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1002)
§ 158.172 MINIMUM STREET WIDTH AND RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Street widths and rights-of-way shall be established according to the city’s
Standard Specifications for Construction, as amended, as adopted by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1003)
§ 158.173 STREET DEDICATION AND RESERVATION.
   (A)   Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so as to
eliminate or avoid new perimeter half streets. Where an existing half street is
adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the street shall be improved
and dedicated by the subdivider. The Planning and Zoning Commission may
authorize a new perimeter street where the subdivider improves and dedicates
the entire required street right-of- way width within his or her own
subdivision boundaries.
   (B)   Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow road or when the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan, official map or zoning setback regulations
indicate plans for realignment or widening a road that would require use of
some of the land in the subdivision, the applicant shall be required to improve
and dedicate, at his or her expense, such areas for widening or alignment of
such roads. Such frontage roads and streets shall be improved and dedicated by
the applicant at his or her own expense to the full width as required by these
subdivision regulations. Land reserved for any road purpose may not be counted
in satisfying yard or area requirements of the zoning ordinance, whether the
land is to be dedicated to the municipality in fee simple or an easement is
granted to the city.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1004)
§ 158.174 STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Street construction shall be of materials and in a manner according to
specifications of the city’s Standard Specifications for Construction, as
amended, as approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The developer shall complete streets within a subdivision in at least
one-block increments and shall properly gravel and grade such streets prior to
issuance of any building permit.
   (C)   The developer shall provide hard-surface paving within two years of
completion of the lift of gravel, within the next construction season or
following the sale of 30% of the lots in the subdivision, whichever first
occurs, and the final paving lift within six months of the first lift. The city
or its engineer shall inspect the first lift of paving and direct the developer
to make any required corrections prior to completion of the final lift and
shall inspect the final lift prior to street acceptance.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1005)
§ 158.175 STREET SIGNS.
   The developer shall install street identification signs at all intersections
and along streets in accordance with specifications approved by the City
Council and as required by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
The city shall install all traffic signs before issuance of certificates of
occupancy for any residences on the streets approved. Street name signs are to
be placed at all intersections within or abutting the subdivision, the type and
location of which is to be approved by the City Engineer or the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1006)
§ 158.176 STREET LIGHTS.
   The developer shall be responsible for the installation of street lights and
must submit a street light plan showing style, design and location. Said street
light plan must meet minimum standards set by the City Council and must be
approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee prior to the
installation.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1007)
§ 158.177 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be provided along each side of every street shown on
the plat and shall be dedicated to public use. Construction shall be completed
within one year of occupancy of the dwelling unit. Sidewalks shall be
constructed according to the city’s Standard Specifications for Construction,
as amended. Sidewalks along residential streets shall be a minimum of four feet
wide. Sidewalks along nonresidential streets shall be a minimum of six feet
wide.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may require, in order to facilitate
pedestrian access from the roads to schools, parks, playgrounds or other nearby
roads, perpetual unobstructed easements at least 20 feet in width. Easements
shall be indicated on the plat.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1008)
§ 158.178 BRIDGES.
   Bridges shall be constructed at the full expense of the developer without
reimbursement from the city. The City Council may share expenses for the
construction of bridges by special agreement with the developer if, in its
discretion, it determines there is a public interest in so doing.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1009)
§ 158.179 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   Curbs and gutters, which shall be constructed according to the city’s
Standard Specifications for Construction, as amended, shall be installed by the
developer at no cost to the city prior to approval of any building permit.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1010)
§ 158.180 STORM SEWERS.
   The developer shall make adequate provisions for storm or floodwater runoff
channels or basins. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by methods
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission, and a copy of design
computations shall be submitted along with plans. Inlets shall be provided so
that surface water is neither carried across or around any intersection nor for
a distance of more than 600 feet in the gutter. When calculations indicate that
curb capacities are exceeded at a point, no further allowance shall be made for
flow beyond that point, and catch basins shall be used to intercept flow at the
point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown for each and every lot
and block.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1011)
§ 158.181 NATURE OF STORMWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Location. The applicant may be required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission to carry away, by pipe or open ditch, any spring or surface water
that may exist either previously to, or as a result of, the subdivision. Such
drainage facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way, where feasible,
or in perpetual unobstructed easements of appropriate width and shall be
constructed in accordance with the city’s Standard Specifications for
Construction, as amended.
   (B)   Accessibility to public storm sewers.
      (1)   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of stormwaters,
subject to the specifications of the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee. However, in subdivisions containing lots less than 15,000 square feet
in area and in business and industrial districts, underground storm sewer
systems shall be conducted to an approved outfall. The Director of Public Works
or his or her designee shall conduct inspections of facilities.
      (2)   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided
eventually, as determined by the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee and the Planning and Zoning Commission, the developer shall make
arrangements for future stormwater disposal by a public utility system at the
time the plat receives final approval. Provision for such connection shall be
incorporated by inclusion in the bond or other surety required for the
subdivision plat.
   (C)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert or other drainage
facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential runoff
from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall
determine the necessary size of the facility based on the provisions of the
city’s Standard Specifications for Construction, as amended, assuming
conditions of maximum potential watershed development permitted by the zoning
ordinance.
   (D)   Effect on downstream drainage areas. The Director of Public Works or
his or her designee shall also study the effect of each subdivision on existing
downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the subdivision. City
drainage studies, together with such other studies as shall be appropriate,
shall serve as a guide to needed improvements. Where it is anticipated that the
additional runoff incident to the development of the subdivision will overload
an existing downstream drainage facility, the Planning and Zoning Commission
may withhold recommendation of approval of the subdivision until provision has
been made for the improvement of said potential condition. No subdivision shall
be approved unless adequate drainage will be provided to an adequate drainage
watercourse or facility.
   (E)   Areas of poor drainage. Whenever a plat is submitted for an area which
is subject to flooding, the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend
approval of such subdivision, provided that the applicant fills the affected
area of said subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place the elevation of
streets and lots at a minimum of 12 inches above the elevation of the maximum
probable flood as determined by the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee. The plat of such subdivision shall provide for an overflow zone along
the bank of any stream or watercourse in a width which shall be sufficient in
times of high water to contain or move the water. No fill shall be placed in
the overflow zone, nor shall any structure be erected or placed therein. The
boundaries of the overflow zone shall be subject to approval by the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee. Subdivision of areas of extremely poor
drainage shall be discouraged.
   (F)   Floodplain areas. The City Council may, when it deems it necessary for
the health, safety or welfare of the present and future population of the area
and necessary to the conservation of water drainage and sanitary facilities,
prohibit the subdivision of any portion of the property which lies within the
floodplain of any stream or drainage course. These floodplain areas shall be
preserved from any and all destruction or damage resulting from clearing,
grading or the dumping of earth, waste material or stumps, except at the
discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1012)
§ 158.182 DEDICATION OF DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a
stormwater easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially to the
lines of such watercourse, and of such width and construction, or both, as will
be adequate for the purpose. Wherever possible, it is desirable that the
drainage be maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate
width for the maximum potential volume of flow.
   (B)   Drainage easements.
      (1)   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within the road rights-of-way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for such drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the road lines and with
satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be carried from the road to a
natural watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
      (2)   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
      (3)   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation, the easement of land on both sides of existing watercourses to a
distance to be determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (4)   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as
drainageways. Such land or land subject to periodic flooding shall not be
computed in determining the number of lots to be utilized for average density
procedure nor for computing the area requirement of any lot.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1013)
UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SPACES
§ 158.195 UTILITY LOCATION.
   All utility facilities, including, but not limited to, gas, electric power,
telephone and CATV cables shall be located underground throughout the
subdivision. Wherever existing utility facilities are located aboveground,
except where existing on public roads and rights-of-way, they shall be removed
and placed underground. All utility facilities existing and proposed throughout
the subdivision shall be shown on the preliminary plat. The subdivider shall
install underground service lines to each platted lot at no expense to the
city. At the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission, the requirement
for service connections to each lot may be waived in the case of adjoining lots
to be retained in a single ownership and intended to be developed for the same
primary use.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1101)
§ 158.196 PUBLIC EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for utilities
(private and municipal); such easements shall be at least ten feet wide. The
subdivider and the applicable utility companies shall cooperate in establishing
utility easements on adjoining properties.
   (B)   Where topographical or other conditions are such so as to make
impractical the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual
unobstructed easements of at least ten feet in width shall be provided along
any lot line with satisfactory access to a road or rear lot line. All public
easements shall be indicated on the plat.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1102)
§ 158.197 WATER FACILITIES.
   The developer shall install main water distribution lines and service lines
to each property line, including the curb stop, according to the city’s
Standard Specifications for Construction, as amended. The property owner shall
be responsible for the installation of the line from the curb stop to the
dwelling unit or other structure. The developer shall install all necessary
fire hydrants according to city requirements.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1103)
§ 158.198 SEWER FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. The developer shall install sanitary sewer
facilities in a manner prescribed by the city’s Standard Specifications for
Construction, as amended, as adopted by the City Council. The developer shall
install sewer line to each lot, and the property owner shall be responsible for
the installation of sewer line from the property line to the dwelling unit. All
plans shall be designed in accordance with the city’s Standard Specifications
for Construction, as amended, any applicable state statutes and State
Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources regulations. Necessary action
shall be taken by the applicant to extend or create a sanitary sewer district
for the purpose of providing sewerage facilities to the subdivision where no
district exists for the land to be subdivided.
   (B)   High-density residential and nonresidential districts. Sanitary
sewerage facilities shall connect with public sanitary sewerage systems. Sewers
shall be installed to serve each lot and to grades and sizes required by the
city. No individual disposal system or treatment plants (private or group
disposal systems) shall be permitted. Sanitary sewerage facilities (including
the installation of laterals in the right- of-way) shall be subject to the
specifications, rules, regulations and guidelines of the State Department of
Agriculture and Natural Resources.
   (C)   Low- and medium-density residential districts. Sanitary sewerage
systems shall be constructed as follows.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible,
the applicant shall connect with it and provide sewers accessible to each lot
in the subdivision. It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to maintain
upon such property an individual sewerage disposal system.
      (2)   Where public sanitary sewerage systems are not reasonably
accessible, but will become available within a reasonable time (not to exceed
ten years), the applicant may choose one of the following alternatives:
         (a)   A central sewerage system, with the maintenance cost to be
assessed against each property benefitted. Where plans for future public
sanitary sewerage systems exist, the applicant shall install the sewer lines,
laterals and mains to be in permanent conformance with such plan and ready for
connection to such public sewer mains; or
         (b)   Individual disposal systems, provided the applicant shall
install sanitary sewer lines, laterals and mains from the street curb to a
point in the subdivision boundary where a future connection with the public
sewer main shall be made. Sewer lines shall be laid from the house to the
street line, and a connection shall be available in the home to connect from
the individual disposal system to the sewer system when the public sewers
become available. Such sewer systems shall be capped until ready for use, and
shall conform to all plans for installation of the public sewer system where
such exists, and shall be ready for connection to such public sewer main.
      (3)   Where sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and will
not become available for a period in excess of ten years, the applicant may
install sewerage systems as follows.
         (a)   In medium-density residential districts, a central sewerage
system shall be installed. No individual disposal system will be permitted.
Where plans exist for a public sewer system to be built for a period in excess
of ten years, the applicant shall install sewer lines, laterals and mains to be
in permanent conformance with such plans and ready for connection to such
public sewer main.
         (b)   In low-density residential districts, individual disposal
systems or central sewerage systems shall be used.
   (D)   Individual disposal system requirements. If public sewer facilities
are not available and individual disposal systems are not proposed, minimum lot
areas shall conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance and percolation
tests and test holes shall be made as directed by the Department of Agriculture
and Natural Resources. The individual disposal system, including the size of
the septic tanks and size of the tile fields or other secondary treatment
device, shall also meet DENR requirements.
   (E)   Sewer locations. Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or
alley rights-of-way unless topography dictates otherwise. When located in
easements on private property, access shall be provided to all manholes. A
manhole shall be provided at each street or alley crossing. End lines shall be
extended to provide access from street or alley rights-of-way where possible.
All sanitary sewer fixtures must meet DENR requirements.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1104) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.199 LAND RESERVATION FOR PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall require that land be reserved
for parks and playgrounds or other recreation purposes in locations designated
on the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, or otherwise where such reservations would
be appropriate. Such a reservation shall be of suitable size, dimensions,
topography and general character and shall have adequate road access for the
particular purposes envisioned by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The area
shall be shown and marked on the plat, “Reserved for Park or Recreation
Purposes.”
   (B)   (1)   Size of reservation. When recreation areas are required, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall determine the number of acres to be
reserved from the following table, which has been prepared on the basis of
providing three acres of recreation area for every 100 dwelling units. The
Planning and Zoning Commission may refer such proposed reservations to the city
official or department in charge of parks and recreation for recommendation.
The developer shall dedicate all such recreation areas to the city as a
condition of final subdivision plat approval.
      (2)   Table of recreation requirements.
Table of Recreational Requirements
Percentage Lots Are over Percentage of Total Land in    Dollar Amount for
Minimum Size Required    Subdivision to Be Reserved for §
                         Recreation Purposes            158.202 Formula
Table of Recreational Requirements
Percentage Lots Are over Percentage of Total Land in    Dollar Amount for
Minimum Size Required    Subdivision to Be Reserved for §
                         Recreation Purposes            158.202 Formula
150%                     8%                             $200
200%                     5%                             $150
300%                     3.5%                           $125
400%                     3%                             $100
500%                     2.5%                           $90
600%                     2%                             $65
700%                     1.5%                           $40
 
   (C)   In the case of multi-family and high-density residential areas, the
Planning and Zoning Commission will determine the acreage for reservation based
on the number of dwelling units per acre to occupy the site as permitted by the
zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1105) (Ord. 854, passed - -)
§ 158.200 MINIMUM PARK AND PLAYGROUND RESERVATION SIZE.
   In general, land reserved for recreation purposes shall have an area of at
least four acres. When the percentages from the table in §
158.199 of this chapter would create less than four acres, the Commission may
require that the recreation area be located at a suitable place on the edge of
the subdivision so that additional land may be added at such time as the
adjacent land is subdivided. In no case shall an area of less than two acres be
reserved for recreation purposes if it will be impractical or impossible to
secure additional land in order to increase its area. Where recreation land in
any subdivision is not reserved, or the land reserved is less than the
percentage in §
158.199, the provisions of §
158.202 of this chapter shall be applicable.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1106)
§ 158.201 RECREATION SITE CHARACTER AND LOCATION.
   Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of a character and location
suitable for use as a playground, playfield or other recreation purposes; and
shall be relatively level and dry; and shall be improved by the developer to
the standards required by the Planning and Zoning Commission, which
improvements shall be included in the performance bond or other surety. A
recreation site shall have a total frontage on one or more streets of at least
200 feet, and no other dimension of the site shall be less than 200 feet in
depth. The Planning and Zoning Commission may refer any subdivision proposed to
contain a dedicated park to the city officials or department in charge of parks
and recreation for a recommendation. All land to be reserved for dedication to
the city for park purposes shall have prior approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1107)
§ 158.202 ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Where, with respect to a particular subdivision, the reservation of
land required pursuant to this section does not equal the percentage of total
land required to be reserved in §
158.199 of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall require,
prior to final approval of the subdivision plat, that the applicant deposit
with the City Council a cash payment in lieu of land reservation. Such deposit
shall be placed in the Park Reserve Account. Such deposit shall be used by the
city for improvement of a neighborhood park, playground or other recreation
area, including the acquisition of property. Such deposit must be used for
facilities that will be actually available to and benefit the persons in the
community.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall determine the amount to be
deposited based on the following formula: the dollar amount in the table in §
158.199 of this chapter (as determined by lot size) multiplied by the number of
times the total developable area of the subdivision is divisible by the most
predominant lot size throughout the proposed subdivision (in square feet), less
a credit for the amount of land actually reserved for recreation purposes, if
any, as the land reserved bears in proportion to the land required for
reservation in §
158.199, but not including any land reserved through density zoning. In the
case of multi-family dwelling units, the payment shall be the larger of the
amount of the preceding formula or the number of dwelling units multiplied by
$200, less a credit for the amount of land actually reserved for recreation
purposes.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1108) (Ord. 854, passed - -)
§ 158.203 APPLICABILITY TO LAND UTILIZING AVERAGE DENSITY.
   Any subdivision plat in which the principle of average density of flexible
zoning has been utilized shall not be exempt from the provisions of these
provisions, except as to such portion of land which is actually dedicated to
the city for park and recreation purposes. If no further area, other than the
area to be reserved through averaging, is required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the full fee shall be paid as required in §
158.202 of this chapter. If further land is required for reservation apart from
that reserved by averaging, credit shall be given as provided by §
158.202.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1109)
§ 158.204 OTHER PUBLIC USES.
   (A)   Except when an applicant utilizes planned unit development or density
zoning in which land is set aside by the developer as required by the
provisions of the zoning ordinance, whenever a tract to be subdivided includes
a school, recreation uses (in excess of the requirements of § 158.199 of this
chapter) or other public use, excluding streets and rights-of-way, as indicated
on the Comprehensive Land Use Plan or any portion thereof, such space shall be
suitably incorporated by the applicant into his or her sketch plat. After
proper determination of its necessity by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
the appropriate city official, or other public agency involved in the
acquisition and use of each such site, and a determination has been made to
acquire the site by the public agency, the site shall be suitably incorporated
by the applicant into the preliminary and final plats.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall refer the sketch plat to the
public body concerned with acquisition for its consideration and report. The
Planning and Zoning Commission may propose alternate areas for such acquisition
and shall allow the public body or agency 30 days for reply. The agency’s
recommendation, if affirmative, shall include a map showing the boundaries and
area of the parcel to be acquired and an estimate of the time required to
complete the acquisition.
   (C)   Upon a receipt of an affirmative report, the Planning and Zoning
commission shall notify the property owner and shall designate on the
preliminary and final plats that area proposed to be acquired by the public
body.
   (D)   The acquisition of land reserved by a public agency on the final plat
shall be initiated within 12 months of notification, in writing, from the owner
that he or she intends to develop the land. Such letter of intent shall be
accompanied by a sketch plat of the proposed development and a tentative
schedule of construction. Failure on the part of the public agency to initiate
acquisition within the prescribed 12 months shall result in the removal of the
“reserved” designation from the property involved and the freeing of the
property for development in accordance with these regulations.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1110)
NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS
§ 158.215 NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for commercial
or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect to such land
shall make such provision as the Planning and Zoning Commission may require.
   (B)   A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the
requirements of site plan approval set forth in the zoning ordinance. Site plan
approval and nonresidential subdivision plat approval may proceed
simultaneously at the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission. A
nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these
regulations, as well as such additional standards required by the Planning and
Zoning Commission or the City Council, and shall conform to the proposed land
use and standards established in the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, official map
and zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1201)
§ 158.216 STANDARDS.
   (A)   In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations which
are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the applicant shall
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission that the street, parcel and
block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and
takes into account other uses in the vicinity.
   (B)   The following principles and standards shall be observed.
      (1)   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and
dimensions to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      (2)   Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      (3)   Special requirements may be imposed by the city with respect to
street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
      (4)   Special requirements may be imposed by the city with respect to the
installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and storm drainage.
      (5)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisances from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing upon existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip, when necessary.
      (6)   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-1202)
§ 158.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of these regulations shall be subject to
the maximum penalty allowed by law. Each day the violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. Refer to penalties set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § Q-12-203)
CHAPTER 159: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
159.001   Introduction
   
159.002   Definitions
   
159.003   Adoption of official zoning map; City Engineer to maintain
   
159.004   Base zoning districts and overlay districts
   
159.005   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
159.006   Classification, review and zoning of annexed land
   
159.007   Amending, changing, modifying or repealing zoning ordinances or map
   
159.008   Establishment, designation and requirements of zoning lots
   
159.009   Buildings, structures and land conforming to requirements
   
159.010   Open space, other areas conforming to requirements
   
159.011   Building permit required; application
   
159.012   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses
   
159.013   Conflicts with other rights
   
159.014   Conflicts with other laws
   
159.015   Certain uses prohibited
   
159.016   Lot vacation requirements
   
159.017   Lot stability requirements
   
159.018   Drainage study and policy
Administration and Enforcement Generally
   
159.030   Land use planning and zoning jurisdiction
   
159.031   Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
159.032   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
159.033   Administration and enforcement
Nonconformity and Special Uses
   
159.045   Nonconforming uses, land, lots and structures generally
   
159.046   Nonconforming use of conforming buildings or structures
   
159.047   Nonconforming use of land
   
159.048   Nonconforming lots
   
159.049   Illegal nonconforming buildings, structures, lots or uses
   
159.050   Conversion to a special use; special use permit
Exceptions and Encroachments
   
159.065   Conforming structures to height limitations
   
159.066   Certain appurtenances may exceed height limitations
   
159.067   Certain electronic towers allowed with permission
   
159.068   No structure may exceed FAA rules for maximum limits
   
159.069   Certain public, semipublic buildings and structures may exceed height
limitations with permission
   
159.070   Conforming buildings and structures to yard space regulations
   
159.071   Allowable yard space encroachments
   
159.072   Certain automobile storage garages excepted from yard space
requirements with permission
   
159.073   Certain one-family dwellings allowed on lots smaller than yard space
requirements with permission
   
159.074   Walls, hedges and fences to provide unobstructed view at
intersections
   
159.075   Hedges, fences and foliage at places other than intersections
   
159.076   Accessory buildings
   
159.077   Rule of measurement for hedges and fences
   
159.078   Power of Board to approve or require fences or plantings
   
159.079   Power of Board to grant interim special use permits
   
159.080   Interim special use permit procedures, conditions and restrictions
   
159.081   Conditional use permits
   
159.082   Setback requirement for certain property along the riverfront
   
159.083   Variances from chapter requirements
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
159.095   Purpose
   
159.096   Conforming all buildings to off-street parking and loading
regulations; exceptions
   
159.097   Surfacing, classification and size of spaces and aisles; exceptions
   
159.098   Group A classification requirements
   
159.099   Group B classification requirements
   
159.100   Group C classification requirements
   
159.101   Rural section roads
Sediment and Erosion Control
   
159.115   Purpose
   
159.116   Definitions
   
159.117   Agricultural or minor land-disturbing activities
   
159.118   Violation procedures
   
159.119   Variance procedures
   
159.120   Soil loss standards
   
159.121   Notice and abatement
   
159.122   Liability
Agricultural District
   
159.135   Purpose
   
159.136   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.137   Principal permitted uses
   
159.138   Accessory uses
   
159.139   Space limitations
   
159.140   Performance standards
Residential Districts Generally
   
159.155   Uses common to all residential districts
   
159.156   Principal permitted uses
   
159.157   Accessory uses
   
159.158   Conditional uses
   
159.159   Front yard depth; exceptions
   
159.160   Side yard depth on corner lots
   
159.161   Conforming one- and two-family dwellings to regulations of respective
districts
   
159.162   Minimum lot size requirements
   
159.163   Nonresidential use lots in residential zoning districts
One-Family Residential Estates
   
159.175   Statement of purpose
   
159.176   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.177   Principal permitted uses
   
159.178   Accessory uses
   
159.179   Conditional uses
   
159.180   Space limitations
One-Family Residential District A
   
159.195   Statement of purpose
   
159.196   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.197   Principal permitted uses
   
159.198   Accessory uses
   
159.199   Conditional uses
   
159.200   Space limitations
One-Family Residential District B
   
159.215   Statement of purpose
   
159.216   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.217   Principal permitted uses
   
159.218   Accessory uses
   
159.219   Conditional uses
   
159.220   Space limitations
One-Family Residential District C
   
159.235   Statement of purpose
   
159.236   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.237   Principal permitted uses
   
159.238   Accessory uses
   
159.239   Conditional uses
   
159.240   Space limitations
   
159.241   Aesthetic standards
One-Family Residential District D
   
159.255   Statement of purpose
   
159.256   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.257   Principal permitted uses
   
159.258   Accessory uses
   
159.259   Conditional uses
   
159.260   Space limitations
Two-Family Residential District
   
159.275   Statement of purpose
   
159.276   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.277   Principal permitted uses
   
159.278   Accessory uses
   
159.279   Conditional uses
   
159.280   Space limitations
Multiple-Family Residential District
   
159.295   Statement of purpose
   
159.296   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.297   Principal permitted uses
   
159.298   Accessory uses
   
159.299   Conditional uses
   
159.300   Space limitations
Townhouse Residential District
   
159.315   Statement of purpose
   
159.316   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.317   Principal permitted uses
   
159.318   Accessory uses
   
159.319   Conditional uses
   
159.320   Space limitations
   
159.321   Other requirements
General Commercial District
   
159.335   Statement of purpose
   
159.336   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.337   Principal permitted uses
   
159.338   Certain uses declared incompatible and excluded
   
159.339   Accessory uses
   
159.340   Conditional uses
   
159.341   Space limitations
   
159.342   Performance standards
Highway Commercial District
   
159.355   Statement of purpose
   
159.356   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.357   Principal permitted uses
   
159.358   Certain uses declared incompatible and excluded
   
159.359   Accessory uses
   
159.360   Conditional uses
   
159.361   Space limitations
   
159.362   Performance standards
Industrial District
   
159.375   Statement of purpose
   
159.376   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.377   Principal permitted uses
   
159.378   Certain uses declared incompatible and excluded
   
159.379   Accessory uses
   
159.380   Conditional uses
   
159.381   Performance standards
   
159.382   Space limitations
   
159.383   Requirements for selected uses
Sale Barn District
   
159.395   Statement of purpose
   
159.396   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.397   Principal permitted uses
   
159.398   Accessory uses
   
159.399   Conditional uses
   
159.400   Performance standards
   
159.401   Space limitations
   
159.402   Requirements for selected uses
Park and Riverfront District
   
159.415   Statement of purpose
   
159.416   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.417   Principal permitted uses
   
159.418   Conditional use
Planned Development District
   
159.430   Statement of purpose
   
159.431   Legal boundary descriptions
   
159.432   Scope of regulations
   
159.433   Compliance with Comprehensive Plan
   
159.434   Requirements and procedures
   
159.435   Initial development plans
   
159.436   Final development plans
   
159.437   Amendments to initial or final development plans
   
159.438   Street signs
Overlay Districts
   
159.450   Purpose
Supplemental Regulations Applicable to Some or All Districts
   
159.465   Gasoline distribution location
   
159.466   Junk or salvage yards
 
   
159.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Mobile home parks, see
Ch. 154
   Travel parks, see
Ch. 155
   Vacation homes, see
Ch. 156
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.001 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the harmonious
development of the city and its environs in accordance with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan; to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from
fire, panic and other dangers; to promote public health and the general
welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of
land; to avoid undue concentrations of population; and to facilitate the
adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other
public requirements.
   (B)   The zoning ordinance controls the use of land, the location, height,
size and use of buildings, the arrangement of buildings on lots and the density
of population within the corporate limits of the city and within that portion
of the unincorporated area of the county included on the official “Zoning Map
of the City of Fort Pierre, South Dakota and its Planning Area,” which is
incorporated as a part of this chapter as if set out in full and shown as the
Fort Pierre Urban Area on the official “Zoning Map of Stanley County, South
Dakota.”
(Prior Code, § Q-1-101)
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see Res. 680, passed 8-6-1990.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-3 and 11-6-11
§ 159.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All words used in the present tense include the future; the singular
number includes the plural and the plural the singular; the word SHALL is
mandatory, not discretionary; the word MAY is permissive; the word PERSON
includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company,
corporation or individual; the word LOT may include the word plat or parcel,
depending on context; and the words USED or OCCUPIED include the words
intended, designed or arranged to be used or occupied.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A building located on agricultural property and
used to shelter farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other farm
produce, in which there is no human habitation and which is not used by the
public.
      ALLEY. A narrow service way providing a secondary means of access to
abutting properties.
      ALTER or ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction
or occupancy.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple dwelling used or
designed for occupancy by a single family.
       APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed,
built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or which is occupied as
the home or residence of three or more families living independently of each
other and doing their own cooking in the said building, and shall include flats
and apartments.
      AUTO WRECKING. The collecting, burning out, dismantling or wrecking of
used motor vehicles, wheeled or track-laying equipment, trailers or equipment,
or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, partially dismantled, obsolete
or wrecked motor vehicles, wheeled or track-laying equipment, trailers or their
parts, or any medical equipment. The dismantling and rebuilding, other than
custom repair, of more than one motor vehicle, piece of wheeled or track
equipment or trailer at a time, even though not for profit, or a principal use
of a parcel of land shall be defined as AUTO WRECKING. The storage of a
partially dismantled motor vehicle, piece of wheeled or track equipment or
trailer shall be considered AUTO WRECKING.
      BASE ZONING. The zoning regulating the use and development of land unless
modified by an overylay district regulation.
      BASEMENT. That portion of a building between floor and its ceiling.
      BILLBOARD. See §
153.02 of this code.
      BLOCK. A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways,
streets, streams, railroad rights-of-way, parks or a combination thereof. There
may be more than one numbered block, as shown on a plat, falling within a
single BLOCK as herein defined.
      BOARD. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals of the City of Fort Pierre.
      BUILDING. Any structure for the support, shelter and enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
      BUILDING, ACCESSORY. Any subordinate building or structure the use of
which is incidental to the principal building on the same lot, including, but
not limited to:
         (a)   Private garages, carports, sheds and agricultural buildings;
         (b)   Fences over six feet high; and
         (c)   Tanks and towers.
      BUILDING, EXISTING. A building erected prior to the adoption of this
chapter or one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the primary use of
the site on which it is situated. In any residential district, any dwelling
shall be deemed to be the PRINCIPAL BUILDING of the site on which it is
located.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A permit issued by the City Building Inspector
indicating that the use of the building or land in question is in conformity
with this chapter and the Building Code of the city, or that there has been a
legal variance therefrom as provided by said chapter or code.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Fort Pierre.
      CITY ENGINEER. The Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
      CITY INSPECTOR. The officer charged with the administration and
enforcement of this chapter or his or her regularly authorized deputy.
      CLINIC, MEDICAL. A building or portion of a building containing the
offices and associated facilities of one or more practitioners providing
medical, dental, psychiatric, osteopathic, chiropractor, physical therapy,
nursing or similar services for out-patients only, with or without share or
common spaces and equipment. A common area pharmacy or drug dispensary
available to persons other than patients being treated therein or making
charges separate from bills for professional services of said practitioners
shall not be considered as a MEDICAL CLINIC use.
      CLUB. Includes CLUBHOUSE and shall mean a voluntary association of
persons organized for cultural, recreational, fraternal, civic, charitable or
similar purposes, but shall not include an organization or premises the chief
activity of which is a service or activity customarily carried on as a business
even though it may be chartered and named for purposes herein defining a CLUB.
      COMMERCIAL USE. The use of any land or building designed for commercial
purposes, which shall include the use of land or buildings used for retail
sales and offices.
      COMMISSION, PLANNING. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of
Fort Pierre.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is not allowed in the district as a matter
of right but which is permitted upon or by finding of the City Planning and
Zoning Commission and approval of the City Council that under the particular
circumstances present, such use is in harmony with the principal permitted uses
of the district. Allowable CONDITIONAL USES are specifically listed under the
district regulations. Uses not so listed shall not be allowed as CONDITIONAL
USES but may be allowed as a special use.
      COUNTRY CLUB. Includes golf courses, par-three golf courses, swimming
pools, tennis clubs and neighborhood clubhouses, any and each of which shall be
located on a site of not less than one acre and open only to membership
subscribing for the use of all facilities for a term of not less than one year
and non-paying guests of its members. Sleeping facilities, other than quarters
for one caretaker or manager and his or her family, shall be prohibited. Clubs
operated exclusively as restaurants, cocktail lounges, card rooms, beer
taverns, bowling alleys, pool and billiard parlors and similar activities
normally carried on as a business shall be excluded from the definition of a
COUNTRY CLUB. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the method of
operation of such facilities enumerated in this definition when owned or
operated by a governmental agency.
      COURT. A space, open and unobstructed to the sky, located at or above
grade level on a lot and bounded on three or more sides by walls of a building.
      COVERAGE. The percentage of lot area covered by buildings.
      DRIVE-IN or DRIVE-UP. May be used as noun or adjective and shall refer to
a business which is designed to serve patrons while they are reposed in
vehicles or by means of service windows.
      DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively
for residential occupancy, including single-family dwellings, two-family
dwellings, multi-family dwellings and group dwellings; provided, however, that
the following are not DWELLINGS:
         (a)   Hotels, motels, tourist courts, cabins and mobile homes;
         (b)   In a building that contains one or more dwelling units or
lodging rooms in addition to one or more nonresidential uses, the portion of
such building that is devoted to such nonresidential uses, except when
accessory to the residential uses; or
         (c)   Used for the institutional care of people, such as hospitals,
rest homes, orphanages and homes for the aged.
      DWELLING, MOBILE. A vehicle used or so constructed as to permit its being
used as a conveyance upon a public street or highway and duly licensable as
such, and shall include self-propelled vehicles so designed, constructed,
reconstructed or added to, by any means, in such manner as will permit the
occupancy thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place of one or more persons and
supported by wheels, jacks or similar supports. Transportable dwellings not
meeting Building Code requirements for dwellings shall be treated as MOBILE
DWELLINGS.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof accommodating
three or more families living independently of each other.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing one dwelling unit only.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing two dwelling units only.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more habitable rooms which are occupied, or which
are intended or designed to be occupied, by one family, with facilities for
living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood or
marriage, or a group of not more than five persons (excluding servants) who
need not be related by blood or marriage, living together in a dwelling unit.
      FARM or RANCH. Any parcel of land containing at least ten acres which is
used for the production of agricultural products.
      FILLING STATION. Any area of land, including structures thereon, designed
or used for the retail sale of motor vehicle fuel.
      FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS. Any liquid having a flash point below 200°F and having
a vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds per square inch (absolute) at 100°F.
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS shall be divided into three classes, as follows:
         (a)   CLASS 1A, which shall include those having flash points below
73°F and a boiling point below 100°F;
         (b)   CLASS 1B, which shall include those having flash points below
73°F and having a boiling point at or above 100°F; and
         (c)   CLASS 1C, which shall include those having flash points at or
above 73°F.
      FLOOR AREA. The area included within the surrounding exterior walls of a
building, or portion thereof, exclusive of vent shafts and courts. The FLOOR
AREA of a building, or portion thereof, not provided with surrounding exterior
walls shall be the usable area under the horizontal projection of the roof or
floor above.
      GARAGE. A building, or portion thereof, in which a self-propelled vehicle
containing gasoline, distillate or other volatile, flammable liquid in its tank
may be stored, repaired or kept.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building, or portion of a building, designed or used
for the storage of personal motor vehicles and other customary household
articles which are owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it
is accessory.
      GAS DISPENSING STATION. Any building or premises which provides for the
retail sale of gasoline or oil.
      GOLF COURSE. Standard-sized layouts of nine or more holes and par-three
golf courses, and shall not include miniature golf courses and pitch and putt
courses or driving ranges.
      GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground between the exterior wall of a building and a
point five feet distant from said wall, or the lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground between the exterior wall of a building and the
property line if it is less than five feet distant from said wall. In case
walls are parallel to and within five feet of a public sidewalk, alley or other
public way, the GRADE shall be the elevation of the sidewalk, alley or public
way.
      GROUND COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by all buildings
expressed as a percentage of the gross area of the zoning lot.
      HOME OCCUPATION—GENERAL. A business occupation or profession which is
clearly secondary to the home’s use and is carried on within a residential
dwelling by the resident thereof; and which shall have the following
characteristics:
         (a)   There shall be no external evidence of the OCCUPATION, with the
exception of one unlighted name plate of not more than one square foot in area
attached flat against the building. Advertising displays and advertising
devices displayed through a window of the building shall not be permitted;
         (b)   There shall be no emission of smoke, dust, odor, fumes, glare,
noise, vibration and electrical or electronic disturbance detectable at the
zoning lot line;
         (c)   Not more than one other person, in addition to members of the
family residing on the premises, shall be engaged in such OCCUPATION;
         (d)   There shall not be a stock of goods on the premises in excess of
30 cubic feet in volume, none of which shall be of a flammable nature;
         (e)   Said HOME OCCUPATION shall not create a nuisance through higher
traffic or noise;
          (f)   The above-listed characteristics of a HOME OCCUPATION shall not
be construed to restrict the sale of garden produce grown on the premises,
provided this exception shall not extend to allow the operation of a commercial
greenhouse or nursery or the existence of stands or booths for the display of
produce grown on the premises;
         (g)   Said OCCUPATION may include the caring for not more than 12
children at one time for hire;
         (h)   Room or board for hire, but not for more than two persons. Any
business, occupation or profession the operation of which does not meet the
aforesaid characteristics shall not be interpreted to be a HOME OPERATION
despite the fact that it may attempt to operate in a residential building; and
         (i)   The conducting of a barber and/or beauty shop, a clinic, a
commercial stable, a commercial kennel, a tourist home, a restaurant or tea
room, a convalescent home, a mortuary establishment or any similar use shall
not be deemed to be a HOME OCCUPATION.
      HOSPITAL. An institution in which sick or injured persons are given
medical or surgical care.
      HOTEL. Any building containing six or more guest rooms intended or
designed to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or
which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
      JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvaged metals,
building materials, paper, textiles, used plumbing fixtures or other used
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled or cleaned, and places or
yards for the storage of salvaged metal, materials and equipment, but not
including pawn shops and establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of
used cars or trucks in operable condition, boats or trailers in operable
condition, salvaged machinery in operable condition and used furniture and
household equipment in useable condition, and not including the processing of
used, discarded or salvaged materials as part of manufacturing operations.
      LICENSEE. Any person, firm, trust, partnership or corporation licensed to
operate and maintain a mobile home park.
      LOT. A zoning lot, unless the context shall clearly indicate a lot of
record, in which case, a LOT is a lot of record.
      LOT, CORNER. A zoning lot situated at the intersection of two streets or
bounded on two or more adjacent sides by street right-of-way lines or, in the
case of curved right-of-way lines, when the extension of tangents at the side
lot lines yields an internal angle which does not exceed 135 degrees.
      LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A zoning lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT LINE. A boundary of a zoning lot. LOT LINE is synonymous with
PROPERTY LINE.
      LOT OF RECORD. Land designated as a separate and distinct parcel in a
subdivision the plat of which has been properly recorded by the County Register
of Deeds, or a parcel of land the deed to which was recorded in the office of
said Register of Deeds prior to the initial adoption of this chapter.
      LOT WIDTH. The distance between side lot lines measured at the rear of
the required front yard on a line parallel with a line tangent to the street
right-of-way line.
      MANUFACTURING/PROCESSING, LIGHT. Those manufacturing processes which are
not obnoxious due to dust, odor, noise, vibration, pollution, smoke, heat or
glare. These commercial or industrial uses are characterized by generally
having all aspects of the process carried on within the building itself.
      MINOR REPAIR—AUTOMOBILE. The replacement of minor assemblies or parts and
the tune-up of automobiles or of trucks of less than 15,000 pounds gross
license weight, but not including body and fender work, painting, engine
overhaul or similar types of work.
      MOBILE HOME PARK, TRAILER PARK or MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A tract of land
that is used, designed, maintained or held out for rent to accommodate two or
more mobile homes. Mobile homes located in a MOBILE HOME PARK are used only to
provide living and sleeping accommodations; a MOBILE HOME PARK does not include
an automobile or mobile home sales lot on which unoccupied mobile homes are
parked for inspection or sale. The term MOBILE HOME shall include MOBILE
DWELLING.
      MOBILE HOME, TRAILER HOUSE or MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure,
transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis
and is designed for use, with or without a permanent foundation, when attached
to the required utilities. The terms MOBILE HOME, TRAILER HOUSE or MANUFACTURED
HOME do not include a recreational vehicle or mobile dwelling.
      MOTEL. A group of attached or detached living units with individual
toilet facilities operated for transient guests with parking facilities
conveniently located nearby.
      NATURAL PRODUCTION USE. A production use which shall be directly
dependent upon the natural resources of the area, such as gravel pits, rock
quarries and areas containing natural gas.
      NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or structure, or portion thereof,
lawfully existing immediately prior to the time this chapter, or an amendment
thereto, becomes effective which does not presently meet the area, height,
yard, parking, loading or other requirements of this chapter or any amendment
thereto.
      NONCONFORMING USES. A use which lawfully occupies a building or land
immediately prior to the time this chapter, or an amendment thereto, becomes
effective but does not presently meet the requirements of this chapter or any
amendment thereto.
      OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building is used or intended to be
used. The term shall also include the building or room housing such use. Change
of OCCUPANCY is not intended to include change of tenants or proprietors.
      OPEN SPACE. All area, including off-street parking spaces, not covered by
buildings or structures.
      OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district that is superimposed over one or more base
zoning districts which creates specific allowances and permissions to the
otherwise-applicable zoning regulations for the base zoning district or
districts. Upon the establishment of an OVERLAY DISTRICT, development within
the area shall conform to all base zoning regulations applicable to the area
and shall also be permitted, but not required, to enjoy the articulated uses of
the OVERLAY DISTRICT.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An off-the-public-right-of-way space available
for the parking of one motor vehicle and having an area of not less than 180
square feet, exclusive of driveways, and having direct access to a street or
alley.
      PERSONAL HEALTH SERVICE. Establishments primarily engaged in providing
health services, including, but not limited to, medical, dental, chiropractic,
ophthalmology, optometry and audiology.
      PERSONAL SERVICE STORE. Establishments engaged in providing services
involving the care of a person or their apparel, including, but not limited to,
laundry or dry cleaning, garment services, coin-operated laundries,
photographic and art studios, beauty shops, barber shops, shoe repair, reducing
salons, health clubs, clothing rental, tailors and dressmakers.
      PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE. That use of a zoning lot which is among the uses
allowed as a matter of right as the exclusive use of a lot under the zoning
classification.
      PROFESSION. An occupation or calling requiring the practice of an art or
science through specialized knowledge based on a degree issued by an
institution of higher learning.
      PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY. Telephone, electric and cable television lines,
poles and equipment, water, gas and sewer pipes and valves, lift stations,
telephone exchanges and repeaters and all other facilities and equipment
necessary for conducting a service by a government, public utility or cable
television franchisee.
      REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building
for the purpose of its maintenance.
      RESIDENTIAL USE. Use of land or buildings designed for residential
purposes, which shall include such land or building used for one- or two-family
residences, apartment houses and multiple- family dwellings.
      RETAIL STORE. Establishments engaged in selling products, goods or
merchandise to the general public for personal or household consumption and
establishments engaged in providing services or entertainment to the general
public, including eating and drinking establishments, repair shops, indoor
amusements, copying services, health, professional, personal, educational and
social services and other miscellaneous services.
      ROOMING HOUSE or LODGING HOUSE. Any building, or portion thereof,
containing not more than five guest rooms which are used by not more than five
guests, where rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. A LODGING HOUSE
shall comply with all the requirements of this chapter for dwellings.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the property line and a
building.
      SIGN. Any device which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment, but not including any flag, badge or insignia, or any
government agency or civic, charitable, religious, patriotic or similar
organizations.
      SPECIAL USE. A use that is not a principal permitted use, accessory use
or conditional use, but may be permitted by the Board of Adjustment and Appeals
subject to appeal to the City Council.
      STABLE, PRIVATE. An accessory building in which all of the animals housed
are the property of the owner or lessee or of his or her immediate family.
      STABLE, PUBLIC. A building in which any animals are kept for
remuneration, hire or sale.
      STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of
any floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the
topmost STORY shall be that portion of a building included between the upper
surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished
floor level directly above a basement, cellar or unused underfloor space is
more than six feet above grade, as defined herein, for more than 50% of the
total perimeter or is more than 12 feet above grade, as defined herein, at any
point, such basement, cellar or unused underfloor space shall be considered as
a STORY.
      STORY, HALF. A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates
of which, on at least two opposite exterior walls, are not more than two feet
above the finished floor of such story.
      STREET. Any thoroughfare of public space not less than 30 feet in width
which has been dedicated or deeded to the public for public use. STREET
includes public thoroughfares dedicated to public use prior to the adoption of
this chapter. Newly constructed STREETS must conform to construction standards
of the city.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the structural members of a
building, such as walls, columns, beams or girders. Vehicles duly licensed for
operation upon public streets or highways shall not be considered structures.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner.
      USE. The purpose or purposes for which land or a building is designed,
arranged or intended, or to which said land or building is occupied, maintained
or leased.
      USE, ACCESSORY. A use customarily incidental to a principal permitted use
or building and located on the same zoning lot with such principal use or
building.
      USE, SPECIFICALLY EXCLUDED. A use of land or a structure which is
excluded from a district by the operation of other regulations of the district
and which is specifically enumerated as excluded for purposes of clarity of
intent and ease of reference.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of an ordinance where such variance
will not be contrary to the public interests and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship. As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for height,
area and size of structures or size of yards and open spaces; the establishment
or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by VARIANCE,
nor shall a VARIANCE be granted because of the presence of nonconformities in
the zoning district. This is not to be confused with a special use.
      YARD. An open, unoccupied space, other than a court, unobstructed from
the ground to the sky, except where specifically provided by this chapter, on
the lot on which a building is situated.
      YARD, FRONT. An open space extending the full width of the zoning lot
between the main building and the front line, unoccupied and unobstructed by
buildings or structures in excess of 30 inches in height, except as provided
herein, the depth of which shall be measured as the least distance between the
front lot line and the front of such main building.
       YARD, REAR. An open space extending the full width of the zoning lot
between the main building and the rear lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed by
buildings or structures in excess of 30 inches in height, except as provided
herein, the depth of which shall be measured as the least distance between the
rear lot line and the rear of such main building.
      YARD, SIDE. An open space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between the main building and the side lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed by
buildings or structures in excess or 30 inches in height, except as provided
herein, the depth of which shall be measured as the least distance between the
side lot line and the side of such main building.
      ZONING LOT. A single tract of land located within a single block which,
at the time of filing for a building permit or a certificate of occupancy, is
designated by the owner or developer as a tract to be used, developed or built
upon as a unit, under single or unified ownership or control and assigned to
the particular use, building or structure for which the building permit or
certificate of occupancy are issued, and including such area of land as may be
required by the provisions of this chapter for such use, building or structure.
The said described tract of land must be recordable in the office of the County
Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-102) (Ord. 976, passed - -)
§ 159.003 ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP; CITY ENGINEER TO MAINTAIN.
   The location, size, shape and boundaries of the zones to which the
provisions of the text of this chapter are applicable shall be indicated on the
official zoning map in the City Engineer’s office and by descriptions
incorporated herein and by this reference made a part hereof, and by said map,
after being adopted by reference as a part of this chapter, and so certified by
the City Finance Officer or his or her designee, together with the text, shall
be maintained by the City Engineer or his or her designee, and said map shall
be the official zoning map for the purpose of enforcement of this chapter. In
cases of doubt or dispute, the description of said zones shall govern.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-103) (Ord. 867, passed - -; Ord. 967, passed - -; Ord. 976,
passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13 and 11-4-2
§ 159.004 BASE ZONING DISTRICTS AND OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (A)    Base zoning districts. For the purposes of zoning, there are hereby
created the following base zoning districts by which the jurisdictional area
shall be divided.
1-FAM A   One-Family Residential District A
1-FAM B   One-Family Residential District B
1-FAM C   One-Family Residential District C
1-FAM D   One-Family Residential District D
2-FAM     Two-Family Residential District
AG        Agricultural District
GEN-COM   General Commercial District
HWY-COM   Highway Commercial District
IND       Industrial District
MUL-FAM   Multi-Family District
PARK      Park and Riverfront District
PDD       Planned Development District
RES-EST   Residential Estate
SALE      Sale Barn District
TOWNHOUSE Townhouse Residential District
 
   (B)   Overlay districts. The following are designated as zoning overlay
districts, permitting, but not requiring, certain regulations and standards
allowed by properties that fall within the boundaries delineated by the overlay
district. The creation and/or modification of overlay districts are treated in
the same manner as zoning changes and shall follow the same process and
notification requirements as listed in §
159.007 of this chapter. In the event of doubt, dispute or confusion between
the base and overlay districts, the description of the overlay district shall
govern.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-103) (Ord. 867, passed - -; Ord. 967, passed - -; Ord. 976,
passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13 and 11-4-2
§ 159.005 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways or alleys will be construed to follow such center lines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines will
be construed as following such lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following such city limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines are construed to follow
such shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line, will be
construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or
other bodies of water are construed to follow such center lines.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above are so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the official zoning map will be determined by the
scale of the map.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-104)
§ 159.006 CLASSIFICATION, REVIEW AND ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND.
   Any land subsequently annexed to the city shall, upon such annexation,
automatically be placed in the same zoning district as it was in and remain so
zoned until an amendment to this chapter shall place such annexed land in a
different zone or zones. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the
zoning classification of any annexed land and shall report thereon to the City
Council, giving its recommendations as to the proper classification. Said
report shall be submitted within six months of the effective date of the
annexation.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-105)
§ 159.007 AMENDING, CHANGING, MODIFYING OR REPEALING ZONING ORDINANCES OR MAP.
   The City Council may from time to time amend, change, modify or repeal any
portion of the zoning ordinance. Any amendment, modification or repeal shall be
proposed in an ordinance presented to the City Council for adoption. The
ordinance shall be adopted as other ordinances, except that the City Finance
Officer or his or her designee shall publish, ten days prior to the date of the
adoption of the ordinance, a notice of time and place when and where all
interested parties shall be given a full, fair and complete hearing. Every
proposed amendment or change shall be referred to the City Planning and Zoning
Commission for a report thereon. In the event a property is being rezoned, a
copy of said notice shall be mailed first-class to all property owners adjacent
to the property being rezoned. The referendum and right of protest may be
invoked against such ordinance in like manner as prescribed in SDCL § 11-4-5.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-114) (Ord. 912, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-4, 11-4-5 and 11-4-8
§ 159.008 ESTABLISHMENT, DESIGNATION AND REQUIREMENTS OF ZONING LOTS.
   In order to facilitate the enforcement of this chapter, the device of zoning
lots, as defined herein, shall be used. A parcel of land shall be designated
and suitably recorded by the City Inspector as forming the site of each new
building, structure or use of land, or the site of any building, structure or
use of land designated for any alteration or modification, requiring a building
permit or certificate of occupancy. Said parcel shall conform in dimensions and
area to the provisions of this chapter. A zoning lot may or may not coincide
with platted lot lines. Each zoning lot shall be at least 25 feet in width and
shall front on a public street, or shall have an exclusive, unobstructed,
permanent access to such a public street by an unobstructed easement of not
less than 16 feet in width, and not to exceed 150 feet in length.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-106)
§ 159.009 BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND LAND CONFORMING TO REQUIREMENTS.
   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
moved or structurally altered, unless in conformity with all of the regulations
herein specified for the district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-107) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.010 OPEN SPACE, OTHER AREAS CONFORMING TO REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No open space surrounding any building shall be encroached or reduced
in any manner, except in conformity with the yard, lot area and building
location regulations herein designated for the district in which such building
or open space is located. No yard, off-street parking space, off-street loading
space or other space surrounding any building for the purpose of complying with
the provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise specified herein, shall be
considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building, and no
yard or other open space on one platted lot shall be considered as the required
open space on another platted lot unless the other platted lot is in the same
ownership and is declared as a single zoning lot in applying for a building
permit, and provided no land so considered has previously been considered as
part of a required building site or zoning lot in the application for a
building permit for an existing building. The required yard or open space for
any use, building or structure shall be contained in the same zone as required
for the principal use, its buildings or accessory buildings.
   (B)   No lot, yard, off-street loading space, off-street parking space or
other open space required for an existing building by the regulations contained
herein shall be hereafter reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth herein for said building or structure, except to provide
for the extension, establishment or widening of a public street or highway.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-108) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.011 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   There shall be no building or structure erected, added to or
structurally altered, demolished or moved unless there has been a permit issued
by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee. Except upon a written
request from the Board of Adjustment and Appeals, no such building permit or
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any building where said
construction, addition or alteration, or use thereof, will not conform to the
regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   With all applications for building permits, there shall be submitted a
copy of a layout or plot plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of
the zoning lot to be built upon, the exact size and location on the zoning lot
of the building, the accessory buildings to be erected, elevation information
and any other information necessary to determine and provide for the
enforcement of this zoning ordinance. Each application shall be accompanied by
a payment fee as provided in §
110.25 of this code. The City Inspector or his or her designee shall issue the
building permit only after determining that the building plans, together with
the application, comply with the terms of this chapter. A record of these
applications and plot plans shall be kept in the office of the Public Works
Director. Issuance of a building permit does not constitute any guaranty of
suitability of location, buildability of the ground or other fitness for the
use authorized.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-113) (Ord. 912, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 11-4-3
§ 159.012 SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and expenses,
and a collection procedure, for building permits, certificates of zoning
compliance, appeals and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The schedule
of fees shall be posted in the office of the administrative officials and may
be altered or amended only by the City Council. Until all applicable fees,
charges and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any
application or appeal in compliance with Ch. 110 of this code.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 11-4-3
§ 159.013 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER RIGHTS.
   (A)   It is not the intention of this chapter to defeat the purposes of any
contract, deed restriction or protective covenant when such instrument is
inconsistent with this chapter or contains more restrictive requirements. In
the event this chapter conflicts with other provisions of this code,
ordinances, rules and regulations adopted pursuant to city, state or federal
law, then the more strict provisions shall apply.
   (B)   Areas which are included within the boundaries of an urban renewal
plan or other area plan which has been officially adopted and approved by the
City Council, and a contract with the federal or other government consummated
as a consequence thereof, shall not be the subject of any zoning change which
will defeat the purposes of such contract.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-109)
§ 159.014 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER LAWS.
   In interpreting or applying the provisions of this chapter, the minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, morals, safety,
convenience, comfort and general welfare shall be strictly conformed to.
Wherever the requirements of this chapter are in conflict with the requirements
of any other local statute, ordinance or regulation, the most restrictive, or
that imposing the higher standards, shall govern.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-110)
§ 159.015 CERTAIN USES PROHIBITED.
   Any use that is not specifically permitted in a district as a principal use,
an accessory use, a special use or a conditional use is hereby specifically
prohibited. In the regulations for some zones, specific excluded uses are
enumerated for clarification of intent, but such lists of excluded uses are
intended to be exceptions and are not to be interpreted as including all
excluded uses.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-111) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.016 LOT VACATION REQUIREMENTS.
   When a residence, building or other structure capable of receiving utility
services has been removed or demolished, the following minimum requirements for
reclamation shall be met.
   (A)   The property owner shall be responsible for the termination of all
utility services to the property, including, but not limited to, water, sewer,
electric, cable, phone and gas, at the property boundary or, where deemed
appropriate by the Director of Public Works, at a more distant utility
distribution point. The termination of utility services shall be performed in
accordance with the requirements of the utility provider.
   (B)   The property owner shall be responsible for notifying the utility
provider and the city of the locations of the termination points for any
utility services.
   (C)   No personal property, garbage or debris, including concrete, wood,
pipe, wire or cable, may be placed or remain on the property as fill.
   (D)   All costs for capping or terminating utility services, including any
fee owed to the utility provider, shall be the responsibility of the lot owner.
   (E)   The property owner shall be responsible for controlling noxious weeds
and providing proper drainage on the property.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-701) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.017 LOT STABILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   When soil stability on any building lot is suspect of being inadequate, the
city may require the builder or owner to obtain professional services for
construction documents at the sole cost of the builder or owner.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-702) (Ord. 963, passed - -)
§ 159.018 DRAINAGE STUDY AND POLICY.
   There is hereby adopted a certain policy known as the “Fort Pierre Drainage
Study and Policy,” on file in the Public Works Director’s office. Additional
deletions, modifications and amendments may be made from time to time by the
City Council and shall be effective upon their adoption and filing with the
Public Works Director. The Public Works Director shall keep and maintain a
master copy of the above study, including all future deletions, modifications
and amendments which may be adopted by the City Council, and the same shall be
available and subject to public inspection at all times during regular office
hours of the City Finance Office.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-1(2) and 11-6-2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY
§ 159.030 LAND USE PLANNING AND ZONING JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to identify the jurisdiction of the
city concerning its comprehensive planning and zoning powers.
(Prior Code, § A-3-1)
   (B)   The comprehensive planning and zoning powers of the city shall apply
to land within the corporate limits of the city, subject to the provisions of
SDCL §§ 11-6-12 and 11-6-12.1, and to land within one mile of the corporate
limits to the extent granted by the county. Any zoning ordinance intended to
have application beyond the corporate limits of the municipality shall
expressly so provide, and any such ordinance shall be adopted in accordance
with the provisions of SDCL Ch. 11-4. Jurisdiction shall not extend more than
half the distance to the corporate limits of any other legally incorporated and
functioning municipality.
(Prior Code, § A-3-2)
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see Res. 680, passed 8-6-1990.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-1, 11-6-10 and 11-6-11 and SDCL Ch. 11-
4
§ 159.031 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   (A)   A Board of Adjustment and Appeals is hereby created, which shall
consist of five members appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council. Each member shall serve for a term of three years and until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified, but of the members first appointed
pursuant to this section, two shall serve for terms of one year, two for terms
of two years and one for a term of three years. Vacancies shall be filled by
the Mayor, with the approval of the Council, for the unexpired portion of the
term. Any appointed member may be removed by the appointing authority for cause
upon written charges presented at a public hearing.
   (B)   Three-fourths of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to
time. Three-fourths of the Board must agree for any action to be taken. The
Board shall keep a written record of all its proceedings, which shall include
minutes of its meetings showing the vote of each member, or if absent or
failing to vote, an indication of such fact; records of its examinations and
official actions; its findings; and final orders indicating the action taken on
each matter heard by the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt rules for its own proceedings, which shall
provide, among other things, for regular meetings at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The rules shall
also provide for a time limit within which appeals may be taken as provided
herein. The Board shall annually select a chairperson, vice-chairperson and
secretary. No member of the Board shall receive compensation, except as fixed
by the Council.
   (D)   Subject to appeal to a court of record, as provided in SDCL § 11-4-25,
the Board of Adjustment and Appeals must hear and decide appeals and requests
in the following cases:
      (1)   Appeals wherein an error is alleged in any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by an administrative officer in the enforcement
of this chapter;
      (2)   Applications for special use permits; and
      (3)   Requests for variances from the literal provisions of this chapter
whenever strict enforcement of the same would result in unnecessary hardship
because of circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration.
   (E)   Appeals from an administrative order or decision must be taken within
45 days by filing a notice of appeal with the officer from whom the appeal is
taken and the Secretary of the Board. Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the
officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all
the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken. Within 30 days after the appeal is filed, the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals must set a date for a hearing thereon, give public notice thereof and
hear such persons as may wish to be heard, either in person or by attorney.
Notice of the hearing shall be mailed not less than ten days before the date
thereof to the person or persons who filed the appeal. Within a reasonable time
after the hearing, the Board shall make its order deciding the matter, and a
copy thereof shall be served forthwith upon the appellant by mail. The Board
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement,
decision or determination as ought to be made.
   (F)   Requests for variances must be filed in writing with the Secretary of
the Board of Adjustment and Appeals and shall state fully the grounds therefor
and the facts relied upon by the applicant. Within 60 days after the request is
filed, the Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall set a date for a hearing
therein, give public notice thereof and shall hear such persons as wish to be
heard, either in person or by agent or attorney. Notice of the hearing shall be
mailed to the person or persons who filed the request. Within a reasonable time
after the hearing, the Board shall make its order deciding the matter, and a
copy thereof shall be served forthwith upon the appellant or applicant by mail.
   (G)   In granting a variance, the Board of Adjustment and Appeals may attach
thereto such conditions as it deems necessary to secure compliance and protect
adjacent properties. The Board may not permit as a variance any use that is not
permitted under city ordinance for property in the district wherein the
property is located.
   (H)   No variance shall be granted or recommended unless the Board finds
that:
      (1)   Special circumstances or conditions affecting the property are such
that strict enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would deprive the
applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right; and
      (3)   The variance will not be detrimental to the public welfare nor
injurious to other property in the area in which the affected property is
located.
   (I)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board will be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of an administrative
officer, to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is
required to pass pursuant to this chapter or to effect any variation in such
chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-103) (Ord. 818, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-14 through 11-4-17, 11-4-19 through 11-
4-23 and 11-14-13
§ 159.032 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of five members and
one alternate, who shall be resident electors of the city qualified by
knowledge or experience to act in matters pertaining to the development and
administration of a city plan and who shall not hold any elective office in the
city government, and one member who shall be a resident of the extraterritorial
mile, qualified by knowledge or experience to act in matters pertaining to the
development and administration of a city plan and who shall not hold any
elective office in the county government. A resident elector of the city shall
serve for a term of five years and until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified to allow for an overlapping of tenures. The resident of the
extraterritorial mile shall serve for a term of one year and until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified. The members of the City Planning and
Zoning Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of
the City Council. All terms of the Commission members and officers shall expire
on May 1 in any given year.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-104) (Ord. 859, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-6-2, 11-6-3 and 11-6-7 through 11-6-9
§ 159.033 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter, except as provided in §§
159.065 through
159.083 of this chapter, shall be administered and enforced by the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee. An appeal concerning the decision of the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee may be made to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-113) (Ord. 912, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 11-4-3
NONCONFORMITY AND SPECIAL USES
§ 159.045 NONCONFORMING USES, LAND, LOTS AND STRUCTURES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Purpose. The city zoning ordinance has established separate districts
and standards, each of which are appropriate for the uses and developments of
that district. The purpose of this section is to allow but regulate those
nonconforming uses, lots and structures which substantially and adversely
affect the orderly development and taxable value of other conforming property
in each district and to clarify those circumstances and conditions under which
those nonconforming uses, lots or structures shall be permitted to exist with
restrictions.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-201)
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Legal nonconforming uses, land, lots and structures. Uses, land,
lots and structures existing lawfully prior to the effective date of this
chapter which, by reason of this chapter, are no longer conforming shall be
considered as legally nonconforming and shall be subject to all regulations
imposed hereafter.
      (2)   Illegal nonconforming uses, lots and structures. Uses, land, lots
and structures existing unlawfully prior to the effective date of this chapter,
and which remain unlawful, shall be considered illegal unless remedial action
is taken by obtaining an authorized special use permit or it is brought into
conformance by another acceptable zoning ordinance. For the purposes of this
chapter, mobile homes located outside of a mobile home park are considered
illegal nonconforming structures.
      (3)   Previous nonconforming, uses, land, lots and structures which
become conforming as a result of comprehensive amendment. Uses, land, lots and
structures existing lawfully or unlawfully prior to the effective date of this
chapter which are made lawful as a result of the provisions of this chapter
shall be considered as conforming.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-202)
   (C)   Authority to continue legal nonconformity. Any legal nonconforming
building, structure or use thereof which existed at the time of the adoption of
this chapter and which remains nonconforming, and any such building, structure
or use thereof which shall become nonconforming upon the adoption of this
chapter, or of any subsequent amendment thereto, may be continued only in
accordance with the regulations which follow in divisions (D) through (K)
below.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-203)
   (D)   Repairs and alterations.
      (1)   Ordinary repairs or alterations allowed. Ordinary repairs and
alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or structure, provided that
no structural alterations shall be made in or to such building or structure,
all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not
permitted in the district in which it is located, except those required by law,
or except to make the building or structure, and use thereof, conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (2)   No increase in dwelling units or bulk. A building in a residential
district containing nonconforming residential uses may be repaired or altered
to improve livability and health conditions, provided no changes are made that
would increase the number of dwelling units or the bulk of the building.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-204)
   (E)   Additions and enlargements.
      (1)   Conformity or special use required. A nonconforming building or
structure all, or substantially all, of which is designed or intended for a use
not permitted in the district in which it is located shall not be added to or
enlarged in any manner unless such nonconforming building or structure, and use
thereof, including all additions and enlargements thereto, is made to conform
to all the regulations of the district in which it is located or unless
application is made for its conversion to a special use.
      (2)   Bulk the sole nonconformity. A nonconforming building or structure
which is nonconforming only as to bulk shall not be added to or enlarged in any
manner unless such additions and enlargements thereto conform to the applicable
regulations of the district in which it is located or unless application is
made for its conversion to a special use.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-205)
   (F)   Relocating building or structure. No building or structure which does
not conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is located,
except those required by law, shall be moved, in whole or in part, to any other
location unless every portion of such building or structure which is moved, and
the use thereof, is made to conform to all regulations of the district into
which it is moved.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-206)
   (G)   Restoring damaged building or structure.
      (1)   Damage exceeds 75%. A building or structure or portion thereof, all
or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use which is not
permitted in the district in which it is located, and which is destroyed or
damaged by fire or other casualty or act of God to the extent that the cost of
restoration to the condition in which is was before the occurrence will exceed
75% of the building or structure’s value, as determined by a certified
appraiser, shall not be restored, except as required by law, unless said
building or structure, and the use thereof, shall conform to all regulations of
the district in which it is located.
      (2)   Damage less than 75%. In the event that such damage or destruction
is less than 75% of the building or structure’s value, as determined by a
certified appraiser, no repairs or reconstruction shall be made unless such
restoration is started within six months from the date of the partial
destruction and is diligently prosecuted to completion.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-207)
   (H)   Discontinuing use of building or structure. A building or structure or
portion thereof, all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for
a use which is not permitted in the district in which it is located, and which
is vacant, unoccupied and not used on the effective date of this chapter, or
thereafter becomes vacant and remains unoccupied, or is not used for a
continuous period of six months, shall not thereafter be occupied or used
except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district in which
it is located.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-208)
   (I)   Expanding use in building or structure.
      (1)   In buildings or structures designed or intended for nonconforming
use. The nonconforming use of part of a building or structure, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in
the district in which it is located, may be extended throughout the building or
structure in which said use is presently located, but no changes or structural
alterations which increase the bulk of the building or structure, except those
required by law, shall be made unless such changes or structural alterations,
and the use thereof, conform to all the regulations of the district in which
the building or structure is located.
      (2)   Accessory uses. No accessory use shall be added to a use which is
nonconforming.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-209)
   (J)   Change of nonconforming use in building or structure. The
nonconforming use of a building or structure, all or substantially all of which
is designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in which it is
located, may be changed to any conforming use.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-210)
   (K)   Change of nonconforming use to conforming use. Whenever all or any
part of a building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use is changed to
or replaced by a use conforming to the provisions of this chapter, such
premises shall not thereafter be used or occupied by a nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-211)
(Ord. 912, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.046 NONCONFORMING USE OF CONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Applicability. The lawfully existing nonconforming use of part or all
of a building or structure, all or substantially all of which building or
structure is designed or intended for a use permitted in the district in which
it is located, may be continued subject to the following provisions in
divisions (B) through (F) below.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-301)
   (B)   Repairs and alterations. Repairs, alterations and structural changes
may be made to a conforming building or structure occupied by a nonconforming
use, all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use
permitted in the district in which it is located, provided said repairs,
alterations or structural changes conform to the regulations of the district in
which said building or structure is located.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-302)
   (C)   Restoring damaged building or structure.
      (1)   Damage exceeds 75%. A building or structure, all or substantially
all of which is designed or intended for a use which is not permitted in the
district in which it is located, and which is destroyed or damaged by fire or
other casualty or act of God to the extent that the cost of restoration to the
condition in which it was before the occurrence shall exceed 75% of the
building or structure’s value, as determined by a certified appraiser, shall
not be restored unless said building or structure, and the use thereof, shall
conform to all the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (2)   Damage less than 75%. In the event such damage or destruction is
less than 75% of the building or structure’s value, as determined by a
certified appraiser, no repairs or reconstruction shall be made unless such
restoration is started within six months from the date of the partial
destruction and is diligently prosecuted to completion.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-303)
   (D)   Discontinuing nonconforming use. If a nonconforming use of a building
or structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is
designed or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is
located, is discontinued for a period of six consecutive months, it shall not
thereafter be renewed, and any subsequent use of the building or structure
shall conform to the use regulations of the district in which the premises are
located.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-304)
   (E)   Expanding nonconforming use. The nonconforming use of part of a
building or structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure
is designed or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is
located, shall not be extended into any other portion of such building or
structure.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-305)
   (F)   Changing nonconforming use. No nonconforming use shall be changed to
another nonconforming use if located in a building or structure all or
substantially all of which building or structure is designed or intended for a
permitted use.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-306)
   (G)   Changing to conforming use. Whenever all or any part of a building or
structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is designed
or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is located, is
occupied by a nonconforming use and is subsequently changed to or replaced by a
use conforming to the provisions of this chapter, such premises shall not
thereafter be used or occupied by a nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-307)
(Ord. 912, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.047 NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   (A)   Applicability. The nonconforming use of land not involving a building
or structure, or in connection with which any building or structure thereon is
incidental or accessory to the principal use of the land, may be continued
subject to the following provisions in divisions (B) through (D) below.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-401)
   (B)   Discontinuing nonconforming use. If a nonconforming use of land is
discontinued for a period of six consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be
renewed, and any subsequent use of land shall conform to the regulations of the
district in which the land is located.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-402)
   (C)   Expanding nonconforming use. A nonconforming use of land shall not be
expanded or extended beyond the area it occupies.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-403)
   (D)   Changing to conforming use. Whenever a nonconforming use of land is
changed to or replaced by a conforming use of land, such premises shall not
thereafter be used or occupied by a nonconforming use of land.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-404)
(Ord. 912, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.048 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Applicability. Legal nonconforming lots existing at the time of the
adoption of this chapter may be utilized for uses that are permitted in the
zone in which the lot is located, provided that the nonconforming lot complies
with following provisions of divisions (B) through (D) below.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-501)
   (B)   Permitted use. A nonconforming lot (existing prior to the effective
date of this chapter) may be used for any permitted, special, temporary or
accessory use, provided a primary use is in place that is allowed in the zone
in which the lot is located.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-502)
   (C)   Site and structure provisions. The use of any nonconforming lot for a
conforming use permitted in the zone in which the lot is located is subject to
the site and structure provisions and other requirements of that zone, except
those specific requirements that directly resulted in the lot’s nonconforming
status.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-503)
   (D)   Contiguous nonconforming lots. Where two or more contiguous lots with
continuous frontage, or combination of contiguous lots and portions of lots
with continuous frontage, are under single ownership or unified control at or
after the time of the passage of this chapter, and if all or part of the lots
do not meet the required bulk provisions for lots within the zone in which the
lots are located, they shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the
purposes of this chapter. Such contiguous groups of nonconforming lots may be
subdivided into new lots where each new lot, to the greatest extent possible,
conforms to the standards of the district in which they are located; they may
not, however, be built upon as separate and individual nonconforming lots
without review by the Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-504)
(Ord. 912, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.049 ILLEGAL NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, LOTS OR USES.
   (A)   Illegal nonconforming buildings, structures, lots or uses existing at
the time of the adoption of this chapter may continue; however, any illegal
nonconforming buildings, structures, lots or uses against which there is any
pending or completed action seeking to bring the buildings, structures, lots or
uses into conformance with current zoning shall not be permitted to continue.
   (B)   (1)   Any illegal nonconforming building, structure, lot, use or
portion thereof, all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for
a use which is not permitted in the district in which it is located, and which
is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty or act of God to the extent
that the cost of restoration to the condition in which it was before the
occurrence will exceed 50% of the value, as determined by a certified
appraiser, shall not be restored, except as required by law, unless said
illegal nonconforming building, structure, lot or use shall conform to all
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (2)   In the event that such damage or destruction is less than 50% of
the building or structure’s value, as determined by a certified appraiser, no
repairs or reconstruction shall be made unless such restoration is started
within six months from the date of the partial destruction and is diligently
prosecuted to completion.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-600) (Ord. 912, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.050 CONVERSION TO A SPECIAL USE; SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   Any nonconforming building, structure or use may be converted to a permitted
“special use” by the granting of a special use permit. This conversion may be
permitted only when it is shown that the nonconforming building, structure or
use is providing a particular need or service to the residents of the city and
that the use is not unreasonably detrimental to the city as a whole or to
adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-601) (Ord. 912, passed - -)
EXCEPTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS
§ 159.065 CONFORMING STRUCTURES TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Any structure hereafter erected or altered shall comply with the height
limitations of the district in which it is located, except as specified in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-101) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.066 CERTAIN APPURTENANCES MAY EXCEED HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The following appurtenances may exceed the prescribed height limit, provided
they are normally required for a use permitted in the district in which they
are erected or constructed: flagpoles, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, belfries, penthouses for other than living purposes, grain
elevators, stacks, silos, storage towers, observation towers, ornamental
towers, monuments, cupolas, domes, spires, standpipes and other necessary
mechanical appurtenances and their protective housing; provided, however, that
any of the above, except flagpoles and chimneys when located in any district
with a height limit of 40 feet or less, shall be allowed only upon a finding of
the Board of Adjustment and Appeals that such appurtenances will not be unduly
detrimental to the surrounding property.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-102)
§ 159.067 CERTAIN ELECTRONIC TOWERS ALLOWED WITH PERMISSION.
   Radio, television, microwave and other electronic transmission or receiving
towers in excess of the height limits may be allowed in any district as a
conditional use upon a finding by the Board of Adjustment and Appeals that
topographic or other physical considerations make it necessary that they be
located outside a district where they are permitted as a matter of right and
that the proposed tower or towers will not be unduly detrimental to the
surrounding property.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-103)
§ 159.068 NO STRUCTURE MAY EXCEED FAA RULES FOR MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   No structure shall be erected in any district that exceeds the maximum
height permitted under the rules of the Federal Aeronautics Administration.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-104) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.069 CERTAIN PUBLIC, SEMIPUBLIC BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES MAY EXCEED HEIGHT
LIMITATIONS WITH PERMISSION.
   Public and semipublic buildings and structures such as hospitals, churches,
sanitariums, schools and water reservoir towers may exceed the height limits of
the district in which they are located, provided that such buildings and
structures shall provide at least one additional foot of yard space on each
side for each additional foot that such building or structure exceeds the
specified height limit of the district in which it is located, and further
provided that a finding is made by the Board of Adjustment and Appeals that
such additional height will not be materially detrimental to the surrounding
property.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-105)
§ 159.070 CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES TO YARD SPACE REGULATIONS.
   Any building or structure hereafter erected, altered or established shall
comply with the yard space requirements of the district in which it is located,
except as specified herein. Any required yard space shall be open from 30
inches above the ground to the sky, except as specified herein.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-106)
§ 159.071 ALLOWABLE YARD SPACE ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   Eaves, cornices and architectural features. Eaves, cornices and
projecting architectural features may extend two feet into a required yard
space, except that eaves may encroach three feet into a yard space when such
yard space is ten feet or more in width. Steps may project into the required
front yard not more than five feet and railings not higher than 36 inches.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-107)
   (B)   Fire escapes. Open fire escapes may extend into any required side or
rear yard not more than five feet.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-108)
   (C)   Chimneys. Chimneys, when not more than four feet wide, may extend two
feet into any required yard space.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-109)
   (D)   Porches, decks and terraces. Open, uncovered porches, decks or
terraces not higher than the first floor above grade on the side or the rear of
the building may encroach up to one-third of the distance to the property line
into the required side or rear yard.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-110)
§ 159.072 CERTAIN AUTOMOBILE STORAGE GARAGES EXCEPTED FROM YARD SPACE
REQUIREMENTS WITH PERMISSION.
   Automobile storage garages may be allowed as an exception to the required
front or side yard only when such garage will be entirely below the grade of
the lot and after a finding by the Board of Adjustment and Appeals that
topographic conditions make such a location necessary, that such orientation
will not create a hazard to automobile or pedestrian traffic in the street and
that such orientation will be in harmony with the character of development of
the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-112)
§ 159.073 CERTAIN ONE-FAMILY DWELLINGS ALLOWED ON LOTS SMALLER THAN YARD SPACE
REQUIREMENTS WITH PERMISSION.
   No dwelling may be erected on any lot separately owned or under contract of
sale and containing, at the time of the passage of this chapter, an area or a
width smaller than that required for a one-family dwelling unless allowed by
the Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-113) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.074 WALLS, HEDGES AND FENCES TO PROVIDE UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW AT
INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Except in districts allowing the construction of buildings or
structures to the property line, there shall be provided an unobstructed view
across the triangle formed by joining points measured 20 feet distant along the
property line from the intersection of two streets or 15 feet along both the
street and alley line from the intersection of a street and an alley. Within
said triangle, there shall be no sight- obscuring or partly-obscuring walls,
fences or foliage higher than 30 inches above grade or, in the case of trees,
foliage lower than eight feet. Vertical measurement shall be made at the top of
the curb on the street or alley adjacent to the nearest side of the triangle
or, if no curb exists, from the edge of the nearest traveled way.
   (B)   This provision does not apply to chain-link fences, on which no
obstructions are attached thereto.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-114) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.075 HEDGES, FENCES AND FOLIAGE AT PLACES OTHER THAN INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   On portions of a lot not covered by street or alley intersection
restrictions, the height of fences of any length and foliage continuous for
five feet or more shall be limited to 42 inches on any street line which is
designated a front yard and any adjacent front yard. Fences of any length and
foliage continuous for five feet or more shall be limited to 42 inches on any
adjacent side lot line from the front property line to the front of any
principal building. If the neighboring lot does not have an existing structure,
the fences and hedges shall be limited to 42 inches for the front 50 feet.
   (B)   On all other portions of lot lines, fences, hedges and continuous
foliage, barriers may not exceed a height of 80 inches.
   (C)   This provision does not apply to chain-link fences, on which no
obstructions are attached thereto.
   (D)   At least one gate shall be installed in the fence to provide access
from the front yard space to the yard space contained within the fenced area.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-115) (Ord. 1043, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.076 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings cannot exceed the size of the primary use of that zoning
building or 1,500 square feet, whichever is less. The maximum height for an
accessory building shall be the height of the primary structure or 18 feet,
whichever is less.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-116) (Ord. 823, passed - -)
§ 159.077 RULE OF MEASUREMENT FOR HEDGES AND FENCES.
   Heights of fences, hedges and other continuous foliage shall be measured
from the higher of the adjacent top of the street curb, surface of an alley or
the official established grade thereof. On inside lot lines, the measurement
shall be from the grade of the lot line.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-117)
§ 159.078 POWER OF BOARD TO APPROVE OR REQUIRE FENCES OR PLANTINGS.
   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may approve, or may direct as a
condition for granting an appeal, special use or conditional use, that fences
or plantings of a height in excess of these regulations be placed as buffers
between different uses, or between like uses upon agreement between the parties
affected thereby, provided that no such approval shall have the effect of
reducing corner visibility as provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-118)
§ 159.079 POWER OF BOARD TO GRANT INTERIM SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   It is recognized that there may be extensive areas of undeveloped land
within the city upon which the planned type of development will not take place
for a considerable time. It is therefore reasonable and proper that interim
uses not in conformity with the land use plan be allowed.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals is authorized to grant special use
permits for property within the zoning district allowing for uses not allowed
as a matter of right in said district under the following conditions.
      (1)   The proposed use shall be an open land type of use, and shall not
involve the erection of permanent buildings or other permanent improvements,
and shall be located in an undeveloped area of the city; provided, however,
that permanent buildings shall be allowed which conform with the zoning in
force upon the parcel.
      (2)   The proposed use and the placement thereof upon the land shall be
such that it shall not be unsightly to the general public nor interfere with
the enjoyment or use of neighboring properties.
      (3)   All permanent structures shall comply with all provisions of the
district in which the proposed use is located.
      (4)   All temporary uses and structures shall comply with relevant
Building Code as adopted in §
150.01.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may append reasonable
conditions to any special use permit to the end that the objectives of this
chapter may be upheld.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-119)
Cross-reference:
   Building Code as adopted, see §
150.01
§ 159.080 INTERIM SPECIAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURES, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Special use permits may be issued for any of the following:
      (1)   Any of the uses for which such permits are required or authorized
by the provisions of this chapter; or
      (2)   Commercial excavating of natural materials for building or
construction purposes, in any district.
   (B)   Applications for a special use permit must be submitted to the Board
of Adjustment and Appeals. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals may hold such
hearings on the application as it may consider necessary, but no special use
permit shall be granted if the Board of Adjustment and Appeals finds that the
use for which it is sought will be detrimental to the health, safety,
convenience or welfare of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of
such use or injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood.
   (C)   The Board may attach such terms and conditions to the permit as it may
deem necessary. The City Inspector or his or her designee shall enforce
compliance with the terms of the special use permit and shall initiate actions
for renewal or cessation of the activity at the expiration of the special use
permit.
   (D)   No special use permit shall be issued for a period to exceed two
years, provided, however, that such special use permit may be renewed for
additional periods not to exceed two years each upon finding that conditions
have not changed sufficiently to warrant denial of such a renewal.
   (E)   No property owner or owner of other interest in the land shall have a
vested right in the renewal of any special use permit.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-120)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13 and 11-4-1
§ 159.081 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits generally. The City Council may authorize by conditional use
permit the uses designated in this chapter when located in a zoning district
allowing such uses. The City Council shall impose such conditions as are
appropriate and necessary to ensure compliance with the Comprehensive Plan and
protect the health, safety and general welfare in the issuance of such
conditional use permit. Unless expressly modified by the Board of Adjustment
and Appeals, all regulations of the zoning district in which the use is located
shall apply.
   (B)   Application. An application shall be filed with the City Planning and
Zoning Commission. The owner may be required to submit plans, drawn to scale,
indicating the locations and dimensions of all existing and proposed buildings
or additions, parking, landscaping, building setbacks, screenings and the use
conducted therein, or the use of any land.
   (C)   Notification. Notification of surrounding property owners, tenants and
interested parties shall be accomplished by posting one sign on the property,
placed in a visible location from the closest public road, not less than seven
days before the public hearing before the City Planning and Zoning Commission,
noting the fact that a conditional use permit is pending and by mailing notices
of public hearing to neighboring property owners not less than seven days
before the public hearing before the City Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon application and review, the City Planning and
Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing thereon after having given a
seven-day notification in a daily newspaper of general circulation.
   (E)   City Planning and Zoning Commission recommendation. For each
application for a conditional use, the City Planning and Zoning Commission
shall report to the City Council its findings and recommendations, including
the stipulation that additional conditions regarding the location, character or
other features of the proposed use or building may be imposed when they are
deemed necessary for protection of public interest.
   (F)   Criteria for review. In reviewing applications for conditional use
permits, due consideration shall be given to the following:
      (1)   The location, character and natural features of the property;
      (2)   The location, character and design of the adjacent buildings;
      (3)   Proposed fencing, screening and landscaping;
      (4)   Proposed vegetation, topography and natural drainage;
      (5)   Proposed pedestrian and vehicular access, circulation and parking,
including that related to bicycles and other unpowered vehicles, and provisions
for handicapped persons;
      (6)   Existing traffic and traffic to be generated by the proposed use;
      (7)   Proposed signs and lighting;
      (8)   The availability of public utilities and services;
      (9)   The objectives of the adopted Comprehensive Plan and the purpose of
the ordinance codified herein;
      (10)   The overall density, yard, height and other requirements of the
zone in which it is located;
      (11)   The effects of noise, odor, smoke, dust and air and water
pollution, and the degree of control through the use of clarifiers, screening,
setbacks and orientation; and
      (12)   The degree to which conditions imposed will mitigate any probable
adverse impacts of the proposed use on existing adjacent uses.
   (G)   Expiration of conditional use permit.
      (1)   A conditional use permit shall automatically expire if the use
permitted has not been started within 12 months or if the use permitted ceases
for a period of 12 months. However, a conditional use permit for a phased-in
project may allow for an additional period of time for commencement of the
permitted use not to exceed 36 months total, to be set by the city and
specifically stated in the conditional use permit.
      (2)   A conditional use permit may be approved for mixed business/
residential use in a commercial district that may be transferable upon sale;
provided, however, any such transfer is contingent upon written agreement by
the purchaser to adhere to the terms of the conditional use permit. No
modification to the conditional use permit will be allowed by the purchaser
without following the procedures set forth for obtaining a conditional use
permit.
   (H)   Preexisting uses. An existing use eligible for a conditional use
permit which was lawfully established on the effective date of this chapter
shall be deemed to have received a conditional use permit and shall be provided
with such permit upon request, and it shall not be a nonconforming use;
provided, however, for any enlargement, extension or relocation of such
existing use, an application in conformance with this chapter shall be
required.
   (I)   Compliance. Any conditional use permit granted under the provisions of
this chapter shall be established and conducted in conformity with the terms of
such permit and of any conditions attached thereto. Failure to comply with said
terms or conditions constitutes cause for the City Council to pursue legal
remedies and/or revoke the conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-121) (Ord. 847, passed - -; Ord. 962, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
159.999
§ 159.082 SETBACK REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN PROPERTY ALONG THE RIVERFRONT.
   (A)   All property contained within residential districts abutting the
Missouri River or the U.S. Corp of Engineers take line along the Missouri River
shall have a rear setback of ten feet from either the property line or the high
water mark, whichever creates the greatest distance from the high water mark.
   (B)   The restrictions for the rear yard depth in all residential districts
of this chapter shall not apply to property described above.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-122)
§ 159.083 VARIANCES FROM CHAPTER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for deviations from
the literal provisions of this chapter in instances where their strict
enforcement would cause undue hardship because of physical circumstances unique
to the individual property under consideration and to grant such variances only
when it is demonstrated that such actions will be in keeping with the spirit
and intent of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-131)
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      UNDUE HARDSHIP. As used in connection with the granting of a variance,
means the property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if used under
conditions allowed by this chapter; the plight of the landowner is due to
circumstances unique to the property not created by the landowner, and the
variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the locality.
Economic considerations alone shall not constitute an UNDUE HARDSHIP if
reasonable use for the property exists under the terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-132)
   (C)   Variance request. A variance from this chapter requires a public
hearing and is to be processed in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
159.007 of this chapter. The information required for all zoning applications
generally consists of items outlined in §
159.007 and shall be submitted unless exempted by the city.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-133)
   (D)   Hardship standards. The City Council shall not approve any variance
request unless it finds that failure to grant the variance will result in undue
hardship on the applicant and, as may be applicable, the following criteria
have been met.
      (1)   Physical characteristics. Because of the particular physical
surroundings, shape or topographical conditions of the specific parcel of land
involved, a particular hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished
from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of the regulations were to be
carried out.
      (2)   Unique to parcel. The conditions upon which a variance is based are
unique to the parcel of land for which the variance is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property within the same zoning classification.
      (3)   Purely financial. The purpose of the variance is not based
exclusively upon a financial hardship or a desire to increase the value or
income potential of the parcel of land.
      (4)   Self-created. The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this
chapter and has not been created by any persons having an interest in the
parcel of land and is not a self-created hardship.
      (5)   Public welfare. The granting of the variance will not be
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other land or improvements in
the neighborhood in which the parcel of land is located.
      (6)   Nuisance avoided. The proposed variance will not impair an adequate
supply of light and air to adjacent property, substantially increase the
congestion of the public streets, increase the danger of fire or endanger the
public safety.
      (7)   Minimum action. The requested variance is the minimum action
required to eliminate the hardship.
      (8)   Use variance. The requested variance does not involve a use that is
not allowed within the respective zoning district.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-134)
   (E)   Conditions. Conditions may be imposed in the granting of a variance to
ensure compliance with federal and state laws, local ordinances, and
requirements of the variance and to protect adjacent properties and the public
interest.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-135)
   (F)   Duration and extension.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified, the approved variance shall become null
and void within one year of the date of approval unless the property owner or
applicant has substantially commenced construction of any building, structure,
addition or alteration, or substantially satisfied the conditions of the
approved variance or has been granted a time extension by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Such extension request shall be submitted in writing at least 30
days prior to expiration of the variance and shall state facts showing a good-
faith effort to complete work permitted under the original approval.
(Prior Code, § Q-2-136)
(Ord. 953, passed - -)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 159.095 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter that all buildings, structures and
uses of land shall provide off- street parking and loading space in an amount
sufficient to meet the needs caused by the building or use of land and that
such parking and loading spaces be so oriented that they are in fact readily
usable for such purpose. Because of the pedestrian orientation of the core of
the General Commercial District, it is intended that parking be provided at the
periphery of the core.
   (B)   Each use of land and each building or structure hereafter constructed
or established and each addition to a structure in excess of 300 square feet,
except as herein provided, shall provide off-street parking and loading
according to the standards set forth herein. When an addition is made to a
building nonconforming as to parking or loading, a conforming amount of parking
shall be supplied based upon the size of the addition.
(Prior Code, § Q-3-101)
§ 159.096 CONFORMING ALL BUILDINGS TO OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
REGULATIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No addition to an existing building shall be constructed which reduces
the number of spaces, area or usability of existing parking or loading space
unless such building and its addition conform to the regulations for parking
and loading contained herein. Contractual agreements may be made between uses
which generate parking demand at different times in such a manner that the
requirements of more than one use may be met by the same space, provided the
parking demand for each such use involved is in fact met.
   (B)   All required parking space shall be on the same lot with the building,
except that if the Board of Adjustment and Appeals determines that it is
impractical to provide parking on the same lot, said Board may permit the
parking spaces to be on any lot within 500 feet of the building.
(Prior Code, § Q-3-102) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.097 SURFACING, CLASSIFICATION AND SIZE OF SPACES AND AISLES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, all off-street parking and loading
spaces, access and aisles shall be provided with a pavement or an asphalt
surface treatment within one year of the issuance of the building permit. Off-
street parking in one- and two-family residential districts shall be provided
with an all-weather surface within one year of the issuance of the building
permit.
   (B)   Uses listed in §§
159.098 through
159.100 of this chapter, inclusive, shall provide parking and loading in the
amounts specified and at locations specified for the group in which such use
falls. For any use not listed, the City Inspector or his or her designee shall
determine the proper requirement by classifying the proposed use among the uses
specified herein so as to assure equal treatment. In making any such
determination, the City Inspector or his or her designee shall follow the
principles set forth in the statement of purpose for the parking and loading
provisions.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, a parking space shall be at least
180 square feet in size and shall be of easily usable and convenient shape,
orientation and grade. Each such space shall be readily accessible, and aisles
required for access to any space shall not be counted in meeting the
requirements for spaces. Loading spaces shall be at least 12 feet wide and 60
feet long for industrial- and warehouse- type uses, but may be 12 feet wide and
30 feet long for retail, service and institutional establishments. Aisles
adequate to accommodate the maneuvering into position of such vehicles shall be
provided accessory to such space or spaces. Specified distances from the
principal use for which a parking space is provided shall be measured from the
edge of the useable parking space to a normal entrance to the building or use
along a convenient and unobstructed pedestrian route.
   (D)   Required parking spaces for multiple-family dwellings shall not be
provided within a required front yard or a required side yard at a corner
without special permission of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § Q-3-103)
§ 159.098 GROUP A CLASSIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All uses of land and buildings enumerated under Group A shall provide off-
street parking and loading space on the same zoning lot as such use or
building, and said parking or loading space shall have convenient and
unobstructed pedestrian access across said zoning lot to a principal entrance
to the building or use as hereinafter set forth.
Use Parking Required Loading Space Required
Use                                   Parking Required     Loading Space
                                                           Required
Automotive or machinery sales and     1 space for each 500
service garages                       square feet of floor 1
                                      area
Banks and professional offices,       1 space for each 400 1 for buildings of
general offices                       square feet of floor over 10,000 square
                                      area                 feet
Beauty and barber shops               2 spaces for each    None
                                      operator
                                      1 space for each
                                      bedroom; 1 garage
Boarding, rooming and lodging houses  space                None
                                      can be counted as 1
                                      off-street parking
                                      space
                                      7 spaces for each
                                      lane, unless beer
Bowling alleys, unless beer parlor or parlor               None
restaurant attached                   or restaurant
                                      attached, then 1
                                      space
Doctor’s office, medical and dental 4 spaces for each
clinic                                medical or dental    None
                                      practitioner
Funeral homes and mortuaries          1 space for each 5   1
                                      seats in the chapel
                                      1 space for each 500
Furniture and appliance sales,        square feet          1
furniture and appliance repair        of gross sales space
                                      and repair space
Multiple-family dwelling units to be  1 parking space per
used exclusively for the housing of   unit; 1 garage
the handicapped or elderly; the       parking space can be None
elderly is defined as 1 or more       counted as 1 off-
persons per dwelling unit over 60     street parking space
years of age
                                      Minimum of 2 parking
                                      spaces per dwelling
                                      unit; if dwelling
                                      unit is constructed
Multiple-family dwellings             with a garage,       None
                                      minimum of 2 parking
                                      spaces, with the
                                      garage being counted
                                      as 1 space
Restaurants, beer parlors, taverns,   1 space for each 5   None
bars, nightclubs                      seats
                                      1 space for each 300
                                      square feet of floor
                                      space up to 10,000   1 for each 10,000
Retail stores and shops               square feet; 1 for   square feet, or
                                      each 500 square feet portion thereof
                                      of gross floor space
                                      over 10,000 square
                                      feet
                                      1 space for each 75
Roller and ice rinks, intensive       square feet of gross
sports and recreational               floor area or of     None
establishments, dance halls           public space, as
                                      appropriate
Single-family dwellings               2 spaces for each    None
                                      Minimum of 1 parking
Two-family and multiple-family        space for each of
dwellings containing 1-bedroom or     said units; 1 garage None
efficiency units                      parking space can be
                                      counted as 1 off-
                                      street parking space
                                      Minimum of 2 parking
                                      spaces for each
                                      dwelling unit; 1
Two-family dwellings                  garage parking space None
                                      can be counted as
                                      1 off-street parking
                                      space
 
(Prior Code, § Q-3-104)
§ 159.099 GROUP B CLASSIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All uses of land or buildings enumerated under Group B shall provide off-
street parking and loading on the same zoning lot as such building or use for
all customers or patrons frequenting the establishment; said parking or loading
space shall have convenient and unobstructed pedestrian access across said
zoning lot to a principal entrance to the building or use. That portion of the
parking requirement that is attributed to employees may be provided within 330
feet of the use or building as hereinafter set forth.
Use Parking Required Loading Space Required
Use                       Parking Required           Loading Space Required
                          1 space for each 200
Clubs, organization halls square feet of assembly    1
                          space on-site
College fraternities or   1 space for each bedroom;
sororities                half of the requirements   1
                          may be off-site
                                                     1 space for the first
                                                     40,000 square feet of
                                                     area, or fraction thereof,
Hospitals and rest homes  1 space for each 3 beds    plus 1 space for each
                                                     additional 150,000 square
                                                     feet of floor area, or
                                                     major fraction thereof
Hotels, motels, clubs     1 space for each unit      1
with guest rooms
Motels or hotels with     1 space for each unit and
restaurant and bar        1 space for each 10 seats  1
                          in restaurant and bar
Office buildings of
10,000 square feet or     1 space for each 500
over (if less than 10,000 square feet of gross floor 1
square feet, see general  area on-site
office)
                          4 spaces for the first
                          5,000 square feet of gross 1 space for the first
                          floor area, plus 1         5,000 square feet of gross
                          additional space for each  floor area, plus 1 space
Warehouses                additional 5,000 square    for each additional 10,000
                          feet, or major fraction    square feet of gross floor
                          thereof; 25% of the total  area, or major fraction
                          requirement shall be on-   thereof
                          site
Wholesale stores with     1 space for each 500
stock of goods (without   square feet of gross floor
stock of goods, see       area; at least half of the 1
general office)           requirements shall be on-
                          site
 
(Prior Code, § Q-3-105)
§ 159.100 GROUP C CLASSIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All uses of land and buildings enumerated under Group C shall provide off-
street loading on the same zoning lot as such building or use, and such loading
space shall have convenient and unobstructed access to said building or use.
Parking requirements for customers, patrons and employees may be provided
within 500 feet of said use or building, except as hereinafter set forth.
 
Use                     Parking Required           Loading Space Required
Auditoriums, stadiums   1 space for each 5 seats
(except school),        in the main assembly area;
theaters, community     where no fixed seats are   None
centers, similar places provided, 1 space for each
of public assembly      50 square feet of main
                        assembly area
                        1 space for each 5 seats
Churches                in the                     None
                        main assembly area
Libraries, museums,     1 space for each 600
similar uses            square feet of             1
                        gross floor area
                        4 spaces for each 10,000   Sufficient to allow for
                        square feet of gross floor completely off-street
Manufacturing, freight  area, or major fraction    loading operations, but in
terminals               thereof, plus 1 space for  no event less than
                        each employee on the       required herein for a
                        largest shift              warehouse
                        1 space for each teacher
Senior high schools,    or employee, plus 1 space
junior high schools,    for each 50 square feet of
elementary schools      seating space in the       1
(including public,      auditorium or multipurpose
parochial and private)  room,
                        whichever is larger
 
(Prior Code, § Q-3-106)
§ 159.101 RURAL SECTION ROADS.
   (A)   There will be no parking allowed on the traveled way of any rural
section roadway.
   (B)   All new construction on a rural section roadway will have an
additional ten feet added to the required front setback, not to exceed 35 feet.
This section shall not apply to subdivisions platted prior to October 31, 2003.
(Prior Code, § Q-3-107) (Ord. 828, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
SEDIMENT AND EROSION CONTROL
§ 159.115 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city’s governing body hereby finds that the lands and waters of
the city are natural assets and resources, and that such lands are being
subject to improper water runoff and erosion, and that such waters are subject
to pollution as the result of said improper water runoff, erosion and
deposition of sediment arising from disturbances and changes of the surface of
such lands. Any grading, excavation or embankment which creates erosion by the
owner or developer requires a DENR permit.
   (B)   The purpose of this regulation is to protect the lands and waters of
this city, to the extent practical, from the results of improper water runoff,
soil erosion and sedimentation through control of some of the disturbances and
changes of the surface of the earth.
   (C)   No excavation, grading or embankment will disturb or affect adjacent
property in an adverse way.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-106) (Ord. 989, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.116 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Fort Pierre, South Dakota.
   EMBANKMENT, FILL or BERM. A deposit of soil, rock or other material placed
by humans.
   EXCAVATION. Any act by which soil or rock is cut into, dug, uncovered,
removed, displaced or relocated.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council in and for the City of Fort Pierre, South
Dakota.
   GRADING. Any displacement of soil stripping, excavating, filling,
stockpiling or any combination thereof.
   MAJOR LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITIES. Activities, such as the development of
residential properties, storm sewers, street and gutter construction, trenching
for utilities, road construction and/or industrial and commercial development,
which involve grading, filling or excavating generally 1,000 cubic yards and
over. Major land-disturbing activities require submission of a sediment and
erosion control plan which complies with the sediment and erosion control
standards of the County Conservation District and the DENR. The plan shall be
reviewed by the Conservation District and shall be enforced by the city.
   MINOR LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITIES. Activities, such as the construction of a
single-family dwelling by the owner, construction of private roadways, home
landscaping by owners, operators and tenants and garden areas, that are not
primarily designed to enhance production or conserve soil resources.
   SEDIMENT. Soil or other surface materials transported by wind or surface
water as a product of erosion.
   SOIL EROSION. The process by which the soil is moved away by the action of
wind or water after land-disturbing activity.
   WATER RUNOFF. The way by which natural snow melt or rainwater uses to seek
its lowest level.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-106) (Ord. 989, passed - -)
§ 159.117 AGRICULTURAL OR MINOR LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITIES.
   This subchapter does not require individuals carrying out agricultural or
“minor” land-disturbing activities to file a plan, make application or
otherwise report their activities, except as provided for in §
159.118 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-106) (Ord. 989, passed - -)
§ 159.118 VIOLATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any person who is adversely affected by land-disturbing activities may
file a petition with the governing body, or with the permit issuing authority
having jurisdiction thereof, alleging a violation of this subchapter. Within
ten days after the receipt of a complaint, or by its own volition, the
governing body shall conduct an investigation to determine if on-site or off-
site damage has occurred as a result of such erosion.
   (B)   If it is determined that a violation does exist, the governing body
will take the following actions:
      (1)   Notify all parties of results of the investigation;
      (2)   Recommend corrective action to violator; and
      (3)   If no corrective action is taken within 30 days upon receipt of a
certified mail notification, necessary legal action will be taken.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-106) (Ord. 989, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.119 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   The city shall have the authority to grant a variance to a land disturber
for the purpose of allowing additional time for compliance. The validity of a
variance request shall be determined by the City Council. Requests for variance
must be submitted in writing to the Public Works Director or his or her
designee. This request shall include reasons why a variance is needed. Action
for approval of the variance must be taken at an official meeting of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-106) (Ord. 989, passed - -)
§ 159.120 SOIL LOSS STANDARDS.
   All land-disturbing activities:
   (A)   Limit both on-site and off-site annual soil losses during the period
of construction and revegetation to the amount agreed upon by the permit
issuing authority or responsible unit of government;
   (B)   Construction areas shall be seeded with adapted grasses or temporary
cover crop within 14 days after construction activity is required in critical
erosion areas. Protection measures will be applied to all construction areas.
The disturbed areas will be seeded to adapted grasses or a temporary cover crop
within 14 days after the construction activity is completed under normal
weather conditions; and
   (C)   Areas needing protection will be mulched when construction is
completed during the non- growing season.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-106) (Ord. 989, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.121 NOTICE AND ABATEMENT.
   Whenever the Public Works Director determines that any existing excavation
or embankment or fill on private property has become a hazard to life, or
endangers the property of others, or adversely affects the safety, use or
stability of a public way or drainage channel, the owner of the property upon
which such excavation or fill is located, or other person or agent in control
of said property, upon receipt of notice in writing from the Public Works
Director or his or her designee, shall, within the period specified therein,
repair or eliminate such excavation or embankment to eliminate the hazard and
to be in conformance with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-106) (Ord. 989, passed - -)
§ 159.122 LIABILITY.
   Neither the filing and approval of a plan under the provisions of this
chapter nor compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall relieve any
person from the responsibility of damage to any person or property otherwise
imposed by law, nor impose any liability upon the municipality for damage to
any person or property, except that violations caused by an act of God shall
not be the responsibility of the land disturber.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-106) (Ord. 989, passed - -)
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 159.135 PURPOSE.
   The Agricultural District is designed to provide an environment where
agriculture can operate compatibly with a greater density of population than
normally found in rural areas.
(Prior Code, § Q-4-102)
§ 159.136 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
Agricultural District Legal Boundary Descriptions
Agricultural District Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Original Townsite, all of Block 115; Lots 1—12, Block 131; all of Block 142;
Lots 6—12, Block 143, Outlot 1 and 2, S 1/2 Section 33
2.   That part of Government Lot 4 lying west of U.S. Highway 83 R-O-W, Section 2-
T4N-R31E
3.   Lots C-1 and C-2, being a portion of S 1/2 NW 1/4 and NW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Section
2-T4N-R31E, and a portion of NE 1/4 SE 1/4 and S 1/4 and NE 1/4 of Section 3-T4N-R31E
4.   Lots C-1, C-2, C-3 and C-4, being in east part of Lot 4, Section 2-T4N-R31E
5.   That part of SW 1/4 SW 1/4 and that part of SE 1/4 NW 1/4 of Section 2 lying
east of the “new” U.S. Highway 83, west of “old” U.S. Highway 83 and north of
Antelope Road (Bad River Road extended), all in T4N, R31E
6.   SW 1/4 NW 1/4 SE 1/4 NW 1/4 Section 2-T4N-R31E
7.   Lot 3, Section 34-T4N-R31E, except 200 feet adjacent to and parallel with U.S.
Highway 83
8.   Outlot B of Government Lot 2, Section 34, T5N-R31E
9.   Lots K-1, K-3 and K-4, a portion of the Chicago and Northwestern Transportation
Company R-O-W lying in Government Lot 8 in Section 21 and Government Lot 6,
accretions to Government Lot 6 and Relicted Lot R-3 in Section 28-T5N-R31E
10.   NW 1/4 SW 1/4 and Lot 2 of Government Lot 5 of the SW 1/4 lying west of Waldron
Street, except Outlot RH-1, RV-1 and RV-2 in Section 28-T5N-R31E
11.   SE 1/4 Section 29-T5N-R31E, except RV-1 and RV-2
12.   All remaining portions of the original plat of the townsite of the city, except
Blocks 1—5; Lots 1—3, Block 10; Lots 1—18, Block 11; Lots 1—18, Block 12; Lots 1—6
and Lots 41—46, Block 13; Block 14; Lots 14—23, Block 25 east of Highway 1806; Lots
14—23 and Lots 24—33, Block 26; Lots 24—33, Block 27; Lots 15—18 and 29—33, Block 28;
Block 29; Lots 1—17 and 34—46, Block 32; Block 34; Block 35; Lots 1—23, Block 36 east
of Highway 1806; Lots 1—13, Block 37; Block 38; Block 39; Block 40
13.   Lot 6, VIB Subdivision, a replat of Lots B-1 to B-7, a subdivision of Lot B of
Young’s Outlot No. 1, in the east half of Section 20, Township 5 North, Range 31 East
of the Black Hills Meridian
 
(Prior Code, § Q-4-101) (Ord. 809, passed - -; Ord. 811, passed - -; Ord. 815,
passed - -; Ord. 822, passed - -; Ord. 833, passed - -; Ord. 838, passed - -;
Ord. 840, passed - -; Ord. 862, passed - -; Ord. 863, passed - -; Ord. 887,
passed - -; Ord. 926, passed - -; Ord. 982, passed - -; Ord. 984, passed - -;
Ord. 999, passed - -; Ord. 1005, passed - -; Ord. 1033, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.137 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted as the principal permitted use of any
parcel of property in the Agricultural District:
   (A)   Agriculture, including the raising of field crops, horticulture,
animal husbandry under performance conditions, poultry farms and kennels under
performance conditions. Commercial animal feed lots shall not be allowed in
this district;
   (B)   Ranch and farm dwellings and normal farm and ranch buildings;
   (C)   Single-family dwellings;
   (D)   Riding academies, dude ranches and other farm- and ranch-type
recreational enterprises, golf courses, country clubs, fairgrounds and rodeo
grounds, but not including automotive racetracks or driving tracks, outdoor
theaters and similar commercial recreational enterprises;
   (E)   Recreational facilities owned or operated by government or charitable
or religious organizations; and
   (F)   Facilities necessary for the provision of transportation,
communication, water, sewerage, electrical energy and natural gas pipelines and
their appurtenances are permitted, subject to approval by the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee, and further subject to such conditions,
restrictions and safeguards as may be considered necessary by the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § Q-4-103)
§ 159.138 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are permitted as accessory to the principal permitted
uses in the Agricultural District:
   (A)   Facilities common to farm and ranch activities; and
   (B)   Living quarters for persons regularly employed on premises, but not
including labor camps or dwellings for transient labor.
(Prior Code, § Q-4-104)
§ 159.139 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   The following space limitations shall apply to structures and buildings
associated with each principal permitted use and each accessory use, except
fences and signs:
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed two and one-half
stories, or 35 feet in height;
   (B)   Required lot area. Not less than 40,000 square feet and at least one
continuous lot dimension of 200 feet;
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. All buildings, including accessory
buildings, shall not cover more than 25% of the area of the lot; and
   (D)   Yards required. Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards not
less than the depths or widths following:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 35 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard depth: 50 feet; and
      (3)   Side yard width: 15 feet on each side of the building.
(Prior Code, § Q-4-105) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.140 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following performance standards shall apply to the uses indicated.
They shall be supplemental to and in addition to other provisions applying to
the property.
      (1)   Corrals in which animals are kept at a density of over ten heads
per acre, or where feed bunkers or water are placed so that animals naturally
tend to bunch up, shall not be closer than 300 feet from any lot line adjoining
properties used for residential, commercial or light manufacturing purposes.
      (2)   Such corrals shall maintain drainage so as to avoid excessive
concentrations of contaminated water, and such drainage shall be so arranged
that contaminated water does not drain into water courses in such a manner that
it reaches neighboring properties at a concentration noticeable to normal
senses.
      (3)   Manure in such corrals shall not be allowed to accumulate to
objectionable proportions, and each feeding pen shall be scraped once a month,
weather permitting.
      (4)   Adequate fly spray shall be applied to all corral areas during fly
season, and more often if necessary to control the fly population.
      (5)   All dead animals shall be removed within 24 hours.
      (6)   Feed shall be limited to fresh materials and shall not include sour
silage, sugar beet pulp, paunch manure, garbage or other materials which may
have a tendency to create objectionable odors.
      (7)   Kennels containing more than three dogs over six months of age and
poultry houses shall be placed not closer than 200 feet from the lot line when
adjoining property is used for residential, motel, hotel or cabin resort
purposes.
      (8)   Parking and loading spaces sufficient to meet all reasonable
demands for such space shall be provided off the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Failure to meet these provisions can result in reclassification of the
property to commence standard zoning.
(Prior Code, § Q-4-106) Penalty, see §
159.999
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS GENERALLY
§ 159.155 USES COMMON TO ALL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   There are certain uses which are considered acceptable when found in any
residential district when developed according to space limits proper for a
particular zone. The uses set forth in §§
159.156 through
159.160 of this chapter, inclusive, are permitted in all residential districts
subject to further restriction or liberalization which is imposed by a specific
district.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-101)
§ 159.156 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Off-street parking shall be provided for all uses established in the
residential districts;
   (B)   Only one building for living purposes shall be permitted on one zoning
lot, except as otherwise provided herein;
   (C)   Single-family detached dwellings;
   (D)   Public, parochial and private schools and colleges offering courses of
general instruction when located on sites of at least five acres, and including
convents, monasteries, dormitories and other related living structures when
located on the same site as the church;
   (E)   Churches, synagogues, chapels and similar places of religious worship
and instruction of a quiet nature when located in a substantial structure;
   (F)   Parks and recreation areas operated by the city or other political
subdivision;
   (G)   Public and quasi-public buildings for cultural uses; and
   (H)   Country clubs as defined herein.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-102)
§ 159.157 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in all residential districts
subject to further restrictions or liberalizations which are imposed by a
specific district.
   (A)   Private garages and private parking areas;
   (B)   Private swimming pools exclusively for the use of residents of the
premises and their non-paying guests and subject to any other regulations or
ordinances of the city;
   (C)   The parking of one unoccupied trailer designed for recreational use
and not to exceed 40 feet in length, or one self-propelled recreational vehicle
not to exceed 40 feet in length, within a building, in the open in a rear yard
or in the open in a side yard 12 feet or more in width, but subject to any
permits required by law or ordinance; and
   (D)   The storage of two pleasure boats within a building or in the open in
the rear or side yard.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-103)
§ 159.158 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses are conditionally permitted in all residential districts:
   (A)   Utility substations when located according to the yard space rules set
forth for dwellings and having a landscaped or a masonry barrier on all sides,
and after a showing before the City Council that technical considerations
necessary to the functioning of said utility require the location of the
facility in a residential district. Structures shall conform to all space
limits of the district in which located and shall have an exterior design in
harmony with nearby properties; and
   (B)   Railroad through and spur tracks, but no sidings or other terminal-
type facilities and no service, repair or administrative facilities, and after
a showing before the City Council that such facilities are necessary in the
location proposed.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-104)
§ 159.159 FRONT YARD DEPTH; EXCEPTIONS.
   In any residential district, each dwelling hereafter erected shall have a
front yard equal in depth to the average depth of the front yards of the lots
in the immediate residential area, but no front yard shall be less than 15 feet
unless allowed by the Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-105)
§ 159.160 SIDE YARD DEPTH ON CORNER LOTS.
   On every corner lot in a residential district, there shall be provided on
the adjacent streets a minimum front yard of 25 feet and a minimum side yard of
20 feet, with the remaining yards to be a minimum of 25 feet and seven and one-
half feet.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-106)
§ 159.161 CONFORMING ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS TO REGULATIONS OF RESPECTIVE
DISTRICTS.
   All one-family or two-family dwellings shall conform to all regulations of
their respective districts or to the regulations in the district which they are
placed if they are more restrictive.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-107)
§ 159.162 MINIMUM LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum lot size requirements for one-family residential will allow a
50-foot diameter circle to be placed inside the lot setbacks of the zoning lot,
or a 30-foot by 60-foot rectangle may be substituted if the 60-foot side
parallels the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-108)
§ 159.163 NONRESIDENTIAL USE LOTS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The requirements for minimum lot size, as prescribed in this chapter,
shall not apply to lots created for the sole purpose of allowing non-buildable
land transfers.
   (B)   The uses of lots fitting this description are required for utility
infrastructure, minor lot line adjustments or the sale of a portion of a parent
lot. Lots created under this exception shall not be used for residential or
commercial construction by themselves. The limitation on the use of any such
lot shall be noted on the plat.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-109) (Ord. 816, passed - -)
ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ESTATES
§ 159.175 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This district is designed to provide for a low-density residential
environment by design or to establish low-density residential areas which may
not be suited to higher density development by reason of topography, geology,
drainage or similar land use constraints.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-202)
§ 159.176 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
One-Family Residential Estates Legal Boundary Descriptions
One-Family Residential Estates Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Lots 15—28, Block 24; Lots 15—28, Block 25; Lots 15—28, Block 26; Lots 15—28, Block
27; Lots 20—28, Block 28; Lots 1—9 and 20—28, Block 33; Lots 1—14 and 24—28, Block 34,
35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and 41; Blocks 52, 53, 54 and 55; Blocks 66 and 67; Blocks 75,
76, 77, 78 and 79; Blocks 80, 81, 82, 83, 84 and 85
2.   Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4, Pearson Subdivision
3.   Lot Z1A, Z1B and Z2 of Section 20
4.   Jones Outlot 1, J1, Spencer’s Outlot 1D, in the NE 1/4, Section 29
5.   Lots 1 and 2, Chase Addition in NE 1/4 SE 1/4, lying west of Verendrye Drive,
Section 19-T5N-R31E (within one- mile jurisdiction of the city limits)
6.   Williamson’s Subdivision of Government Lot 4 and accretion to Government Lot 4,
Section 9 and Government Lot 1 and accretion to Government Lot 1 and Accretion Lot 1 to
Government Lot 2, Section 16 and the NE 1/4 NE 1/4 Section 17 and the SE 1/4 SE 1/
4 Section 8, all in T5N, R31E, Black Hills Meridian; Frontier Subdivision (Lots
32R—34R), a resubdivision of Lots 32A—44 of Williamson’s Subdivision of Government Lot
4, and accretion to Government Lot 4, Section 9 and Government Lot 1 and accretion to
Government Lot 1 and Accretion Lot 1 to Government Lot 2, Section 16 and the NE 1/4 NE
1/4 Section 17 and the SE 1/4 SE 1/4 Section 8, all in T5N, R31E; Lots 1B and 2B of
Forney’s Subdivision of Lots 1—4 of Williamson’s Subdivision of Accretion Lot 4A,
Section 9, T5N, R31E, Black Hills Meridian
7.   Lot Z-2, Turman’s Addition, SE 1/4 Section 20-T5N-R31E
8.   Block 11, Lots 1—9 and 10—18, Stanley Townsite
 
(Prior Code, § Q-5-201) (Ord. 832, passed - -; Ord. 862, passed - -; Ord. 887,
passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.177 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The principal permitted uses common to all residential districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-203)
§ 159.178 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   The permitted accessory uses common to all residential districts; and
   (B)   Home occupations.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-204)
§ 159.179 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The conditional uses common to all residential districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-205)
§ 159.180 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed two and one-half
stories or 35 feet;
   (B)   Required lot area. Not less than 16,500 square feet;
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. All buildings, including accessory
buildings, shall not cover more than 30% of the area of the lot; and
   (D)   Yards required. Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards of not
less than the depths or widths following:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 35 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard depth: 25 feet; and
      (3)   Side yard width: Not less than ten feet.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-206) (Ord. 849, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT A
§ 159.195 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This district is designed to provide for a low-density residential
environment for one-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-302)
§ 159.196 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
One-Family Residential District A Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Marion’s Acres Subdivision, less Lots 35—42; Lot B, Compton-Newman Second River
Subdivision, Pearson Subdivision, First Addition to the city; Lots 1—21, Compton’s Cove
Subdivision; Lots 35R—48R, Frontier Subdivision; Forney’s Lots 1R—2R
2.   Lots 1—18, Block 12; Lots 1—6 and Lots 41—46, Block 13; Lots 7—40, Block 14; Lots
15—18 and 29—33, Block 28; Block 29; Lots 1—17 and 34—46, Block 32, Stanley Townsite;
Lots 6R1 and 7R2; Latham Ranch Addition
 
(Prior Code, § Q-5-301) (Ord. 809, passed - -; Ord. 815, passed - -; Ord. 863,
passed - -; Ord. 887, passed - -; Ord. 906, passed - -; Ord. 992, passed - -;
Ord. 999, passed - -; Ord. 1013, passed - -; Ord. 1052, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.197 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The principal permitted uses common to all residential districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-303)
§ 159.198 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   The permitted accessory uses common to all residential districts; and
   (B)   Home occupations.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-304)
§ 159.199 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The conditional uses common to all residential districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-305)
§ 159.200 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed two and one-half
stories or 35 feet;
   (B)   Required lot area. Not less than 8,500 square feet for residential
uses and one acre for religious or cultural uses;
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. All buildings, including accessory
buildings, shall not cover more than 30% of the area of the lot; and
   (D)   Yards required. Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards of not
less than the depths or widths following:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard depth: 25 feet; and
      (3)   Side yard width: Not less than seven and one-half feet.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-306) Penalty, see §
159.999
ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT B
§ 159.215 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This district is designed to provide for a medium-density residential
environment for one-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-402)
§ 159.216 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
One-Family Residential District B Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Lots 1—2, Block 3; Blocks 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13; Lots 1—3 and
24—28, Block 14; Lots 1—7 and 21—28, Block 17; Blocks 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23; Lots
1—14, Block 24; Lots 1—14, Block 25; Lots 1—14, Block 26; Lots 1—14, Block 27; Lots
1—8 and 23—28, Block 28; Lots 1—6 and 23—28, Block 33; Blocks 50, 51 and 56; Lots 1—14
and 23—28, Block 57; Lots 1—9 and 25—28, Block 64; Block 65; Lots 15—17, Block 72;
Blocks 73 and 74; Blocks 86, 87, 88, 90, 91, 92, 93, 95, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 114
and 116; Lots 1—18, Block 117; Block 118; Lots 1—16, Block 119; Lots 1—12, Block 120;
Block 127, 128, 129 and 130; Lots 15—24, Block 131; Blocks 144, 145, 146 and 148; Lots
9—20, Block 152; Block 153, Original Townsite
2.   Lots 17—29, Block 10, First Addition; Blocks 1—7, Chateau Subdivision; Lots 1—2,
Elwood Subdivision; Gidding Subdivision; Hughes Subdivision; Hughes Resubdivision;
Mary Knoll Subdivision; Lots 1—3, Kruse Subdivision; Martha Subdivision; Rankin
Subdivision; Lots 26—38, Block 7, Thomas Acres; Young Subdivision; Arneson Tract 1;
Marion’s Pasture Subdivision; Deis First Subdivision; Baumgartner Lot 1; Lots 1A—22,
Hamilton’s First Addition; H and Z Subdivision; Broken Timber Subdivision; Sheehan’s
First Addition; Marlyn’s Addition; Lots 3—5, City First Subdivision; Schumacher’s
Subdivision
 
(Prior Code, § Q-5-401) (Ord. 811, passed - -; Ord. 832, passed - -; Ord. 838,
passed - -; Ord. 840, passed - -; Ord. 860, passed - -; Ord. 901, passed - -;
Ord. 910, passed - -; Ord. 1022, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.217 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The principal permitted uses common to all residential districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-403)
§ 159.218 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   The permitted accessory uses common to all residential districts; and
   (B)   Home occupations.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-404)
§ 159.219 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The conditional uses common to all residential districts; and
   (B)   Buildings of nonprofit community organizations and social welfare
establishments other than those that provide living accommodations.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-405)
§ 159.220 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed two and one-half
stories or 35 feet;
   (B)   Required lot area. Not less than 7,500 square feet for residential
uses and one acre for religious or cultural uses;
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. All buildings, including accessory
buildings, shall not cover more than 30% of the area of the lot; and
   (D)   Yards required. Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards not
less than the depths or widths following:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard depth: 25 feet; and
      (3)   Side yard width: Seven and one-half feet.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-406) Penalty, see §
159.999
ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT C
§ 159.235 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This district is designed to provide for a medium-density residential
environment and allow an area where mobile homes may be placed. This district
shall be limited to one-family dwellings or mobile homes.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-502)
§ 159.236 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
One-Family Residential District C Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Lots 11 and 12, Ranchland Estates, subdivision of the S 1/2 NW 1/4 and N 1/
2 SW 1/4 of Section 29, Township 5 North, Range 31 East, Black Hills Meridian
 
(Prior Code, § Q-5-501) (Ord. 947, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.237 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the principal permitted uses common to all residential
districts, including the placing of mobile homes, provided such mobile homes
are not more than four times the width in length; and
   (B)   Commercial mobile home parks shall not be permitted in this district.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-503)
§ 159.238 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   The permitted accessory uses common to all residential districts; and
   (B)   Home occupations.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-504)
§ 159.239 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The conditional uses common to all residential districts; and
   (B)   Buildings of nonprofit community organizations and social welfare
establishments other than those that provide living accommodations.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-505)
§ 159.240 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed two and one-half
stories or 35 feet;
   (B)   Required lot area. Not less than 7,500 square feet for residential
uses and one acre for religious or cultural uses;
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. All buildings, including accessory
buildings, shall not cover more than 30% of the area of the lot;
   (D)   Yards required. Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards not
less than the depths or widths following:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard depth: 25 feet; and
      (3)   Side yard width: Seven and one-half feet.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-506) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.241 AESTHETIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   All homes in this district must have a pitched roof and conventional
siding (metal siding must be horizontally oriented), and all extensions to the
base home must match the building material of the home.
   (B)   All homes shall be placed on a permanent foundation approved by the
home manufacturer.
   (C)   All homes shall have proper skirting if a perimeter foundation is not
utilized.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-507) Penalty, see §
159.999
ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT D
§ 159.255 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The district is designed to provide for a medium-density residential
environment and allow an area where manufactured home parks may be placed. This
district shall be limited to one-family manufactured home parks.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-602)
§ 159.256 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
One-Family Residential District D Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Blocks 141 and 154, Original Townsite (Kenzy Mobile Home Court); Shiflet
Subdivision (Shiflet Mobile Home Court); Lot A, Young’s Outlot (Prairie Villa
Mobile Home Court); Lot R-1A (Wagon Wheel Mobile Home Court); Quentin Sutley
Subdivision
 
(Prior Code, § Q-5-601) (Ord. 907, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.257 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The principal permitted use shall be for manufactured home parks only and
not those principal permitted uses stated in §
159.156 of this chapter, except that §
159.156(C), single-family detached dwellings, will be allowed.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-603) (Ord. 809, passed - -; Ord. 941, passed - -)
§ 159.258 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   The permitted accessory uses common to all residential districts; and
   (B)   Home occupations.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-604)
§ 159.259 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The conditional uses common to all residential districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-605)
§ 159.260 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed two stories or 25
feet.
   (B)   Required area for a manufactured home space. Manufactured home spaces
shall be provided that consist of a minimum of 5,000 square feet for each
space.
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. Manufactured home units shall not cover
more than 50% of the area of the mobile home space.
   (D)   Yards required. The front and rear of any manufactured home shall not
be located closer than 30 feet from any other manufactured home or from any
building within the manufactured home park. The side of any manufactured home
shall not be closer than 30 feet from any other manufactured home. All
manufactured homes shall be required to be located a minimum of 25 feet from
all exterior boundaries of the manufactured home park.
   (E)   Additional requirements. All accessory buildings will comply with §
159.076.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-606) Penalty, see §
159.999
TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 159.275 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This district is designed to provide for moderate-density residential
development.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-702)
§ 159.276 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
Two-Family Residential District Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Lots 12—23 and 28—32, Block 15; Lots 16—34, 47—63, L-1 and L-2, Block 30; Lots
16—34, 43—61, Relicted Lots A and B, Block 31; Lots 13—14, Block 131, Original Townsite
2.   Lot 4, Kruse Subdivision; CAM Lots 1 and 2; Lot M.C.-1, in the NE 1/4 Section 28
3.   Lots 1—6 and 41—46, Block 14, Stanley Townsite
 
(Prior Code, § Q-5-701) (Ord. 908, passed - -; Ord. 1013, passed - -; Ord.
1022, passed - -; Ord. 1023, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.277 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The principal permitted uses common to all residential districts;
   (B)   Two-family dwellings; and
   (C)   An existing dwelling may be converted into a two-family dwelling,
provided that any exterior stairway to serve a second floor is placed in the
rear of the structure to be converted.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-703)
§ 159.278 ACCESSORY USES.
   The permitted accessory uses common to all residential districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-704)
§ 159.279 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The conditional uses common to all residential districts; and
   (B)   Buildings of nonprofit community organizations and social welfare
establishments other than those providing living accommodations.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-705)
§ 159.280 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed two stories or 25 feet
in height;
   (B)   Required lot area. Not less than 6,000 square feet for single-family
residential uses, 7,500 square feet for two-family residential uses and one
acre for religious or cultural uses;
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. All buildings, including accessory
buildings, shall not cover more than 30% of the area of the lot; and
   (D)   Yards required. Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards not
less than the depths or widths following:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard depth: 25 feet; and
      (3)   Side yard width: Seven and one-half feet.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-706) Penalty, see §
159.999
MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 159.295 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This district is designed to provide for moderately high-density apartment
development and other uses which have characteristics similar to those found in
the operation of apartment houses.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-802)
§ 159.296 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
Multiple-Family Residential District Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Lots 39—46, Block 1; Lots 11—14 and 33—36, Block 15; Lots 12—14, Block 72; Lots
19—24, Block 117; Lots 17—24, Block 119, Original Townsite
2.   Lots 1—23, Schimkat Subdivision; Tract 1A and 1B, U1 of Arthur Schimkat
Subdivision; Lot 1, Latham Ranch Addition; Outlot 3, Section 33-T5N-R31E; N 1/2 of Lot
C and Lot S.C.-4, Young’s Outlot No. 1
3.   Lots 35—42, Marion’s Acres Addition, a subdivision of Lot 7, Latham Ranch
Addition, in Section 21, Township 5 North, Range 31 East of the Black Hills Meridian
4.   Lots 1—3, Block 10, Stanley Townsite
 
(Prior Code, § Q-5-801) (Ord. 897, passed - -; Ord. 904, passed - -; Ord. 945,
passed - -; Ord. 964, passed - -; Ord. 982, passed - -; Ord. 992, passed - -;
Ord. 1014, passed - -; Ord. 1023, passed - -; Ord. 1033, passed - -; Ord. 1061,
passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.297 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The principal permitted uses common to all residential districts;
   (B)   Multiple dwellings, townhouses and condominiums;
   (C)   Hospitals and rest homes, nursing homes;
   (D)   Rooming houses and boarding houses;
   (E)   Private clubs, fraternity houses, sorority houses, lodges and similar
establishments, but specifically excluding such establishments which are in
fact operated as a business enterprise, and also excluding associated
concessions which are operated as a business enterprise;
   (F)   The offices of one or more professional persons engaged in activities
which generate a limited amount of contact with the general public, including
medical clinics and the offices of lawyers, accountants, architects, planners,
engineers and similar professions;
   (G)   Buildings of nonprofit community organizations and social welfare
establishments; and
   (H)   Day care centers.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-803)
§ 159.298 ACCESSORY USES.
   The permitted accessory uses common to all residential districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-804)
§ 159.299 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The conditional uses common to all residential districts;
   (B)   Office buildings for the conduct of the administrative business of a
single company when such business does not deal with the public directly from
the site of such office building;
   (C)   Mortuaries, funeral homes and funeral chapels; and
   (D)   Produce sales.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-805)
§ 159.300 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed 75 feet in height.
   (B)   Required lot area.
      (1)   No multiple-family dwelling shall be constructed on a lot having
less than 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided, each multiple-family dwelling shall
be located on a lot having a minimum of 800 square feet of open space for each
dwelling unit housed thereon.
      (3)   The open space requirement for multiple-family dwellings containing
one-bedroom or efficiency units shall be 700 square feet for each dwelling
unit.
      (4)   Solely for the purpose of determining compliance with lot area per
dwelling unit requirements, each lodging room in a group dwelling shall be
considered as one-half a dwelling unit.
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. All buildings, including accessory
buildings, shall not cover more than 50% of the area of the lot.
   (D)   Yards required. Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards of not
less than the depths or widths following:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard depth: 25 feet, or equal in depth to the height of the
building, whichever is greater; and
      (3)   Side yards: Five feet, but each side yard shall be equal to one-
fourth of the height of the building. For townhouses, the side yard
requirements do not apply to common walls.
   (E)   Required court dimensions. The minimum dimension of a building
containing an inner court shall be not less than one-half of the height of the
building which contains the court.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-806) Penalty, see §
159.999
TOWNHOUSE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 159.315 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This district is designed to provide for a medium- to high-density
residential environment for one- family dwellings and townhouses.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-902)
§ 159.316 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
Townhouse Residential District Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Lots 16—53, Block 46; Lots 16—24, 32—43, 125—131 and 144—153, Block 47; Lots 16—43
and 149—153, Block 60; and Lots 16—47 and 148—153, Block 61, Original Townsite
2.   Lots 1 and 2, City First Subdivision
 
(Prior Code, § Q-5-901) (Ord. 896B, passed - -)
§ 159.317 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The principal uses common to all residential districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-903)
§ 159.318 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   The accessory uses common to all residential districts; and
   (B)   Home occupations.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-904)
§ 159.319 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The conditional uses common to all residential districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-905)
§ 159.320 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed two and one-half
stories or 35 feet;
   (B)   Required lot area. Not less than 7,500 square feet for one-family
dwellings, 4,000 square feet for townhouses per dwelling and one acre for
religious or cultural uses;
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. All buildings, including accessory
buildings, used in single-family detached, religious or cultural uses shall not
cover more than 30% of the area of the lot. All buildings, including accessory
buildings, associated with a townhouse use shall not cover more than 50% of the
area of the lot;
   (D)   Required heated floor area per townhouse. No townhouse shall have less
than 1,100 square feet of living space. This does not include a garage;
   (E)   Yards required. Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards not
less than the depths or widths following:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 25 feet for single-family use and 35 feet for
townhouse, religious or cultural uses;
      (2)   Rear yard depth: 25 feet for single-family use and 25 feet, with an
additional ten feet of vegetative buffer approved by the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee, for townhouse, religious or cultural uses when
abutting other residentially zoned areas; and
      (3)   Side yard width: Seven and one-half feet for single-family use, and
for townhouse, religious or cultural uses, ten feet or equal to one-half the
height of the building, whichever is greater, and an additional ten feet of
vegetative buffer approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee if abutting a single-family residentially zoned area. For townhouse
common walls, there shall be a zero- foot setback.
   (F)   Lot width. Each lot shall have a minimum of 20 feet abutting a public
right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-906) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.321 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements for townhouses. Each townhouse must be
individually titled and individually owned and occupied. Each townhouse lot
shall abut on a public right-of-way with at least 20 feet of frontage. Each
individual townhouse must have direct access to a yard having frontage on the
public right-of-way. Common entry walls and/or hallways are not allowed.
   (B)   Parking. Each townhouse shall accommodate off-street parking for at
least two vehicles and have two garage spaces.
   (C)   Townhouse groups. There shall not be more than ten attached townhomes
in a group. In the event that a lot is to be occupied by a group of two or more
buildings to be used as townhomes, there shall be a minimum open space of 20
feet between building groups for one-story buildings. There shall be a minimum
open space of 30 feet between building groups for two-story buildings. There
shall be a minimum open space of 35 feet between building groups for two and
one-half stories. When two townhouses of different sizes abut each other, the
most restrictive open space requirement applies.
(Prior Code, § Q-5-907) (Ord. 867, passed - -) Penalty, see §
159.999
GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 159.335 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   To provide a commercial area for those establishments serving the general
shopping needs of the trade area. The grouping of uses is intended to
strengthen the General Commercial District as the center of trade, service,
governmental and cultural activities and to provide neighborhood commercial
convenience areas.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-102)
§ 159.336 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
General Commercial District Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Lots 10—38, Block 1; Lots 1—7 and 40—43, Block 15; Lots 6—28 and 37—59, Block 16;
Lots 1—15, Block 29; Lots 15—23, Block 34; Block 42; Lots 1—14 and 16—28, Block 43; Lots
1—2, Block 44; Lots 15—22, Block 57; Lots 1—4 and 6—11, Block 72, Original Townsite
2.   Teton Island Addition; Lot PR-1
3.   Lots 24—28 and W 1/2 Lots 29—33, Block 27; W 1/2 Lots 1—6 and Lots 7—46, Block 34;
Block 39; W 1/2 Lots 2—11 and 12—26, Block 40, Stanley Townsite
4.   Lot 17, Yellowstone Landing Addition
5.   Lots 13, 14 and the east half of Lot 15, Block 7, Thomas Acres Addition
 
(Prior Code, § Q-6-101) (Ord. 822, passed - -; Ord. 887, passed - -; Ord. 892,
passed - -; Ord. 903, passed - -; Ord. 1001, passed - -; Ord. 1019, passed - -;
Ord. 1031, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.337 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in the
General Commercial District:
   (A)   Financial institutions;
   (B)   Hotels and motels;
   (C)   Municipal or government buildings;
   (D)   Offices;
   (E)   Parking facilities or lots;
   (F)   Personal and health service stores;
   (G)   Public transportation facilities;
   (H)   Public utility facilities;
   (I)   Railroad through and spur tracks;
   (J)   Retail or service stores;
   (K)   Other light retail and service establishments approved by the City
Planning and Zoning Commission, except those uses enumerated in another
district;
   (L)   Day care facilities and centers; and
   (M)   Educational facilities.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-103)
§ 159.338 CERTAIN USES DECLARED INCOMPATIBLE AND EXCLUDED.
   The following uses are hereby declared incompatible with the purpose of the
General Commercial District and are hereby expressly excluded:
   (A)   Drive-in theaters;
   (B)   Mobile home parks;
   (C)   One-family and two-family dwellings;
   (D)   Petroleum bulk storage plants; and
   (E)   Warehouses.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-104)
§ 159.339 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the permitted
uses in the district, and provided that such use shall conform to all
performance standards set forth for this district.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-105)
§ 159.340 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Assembly and packaging;
   (B)   Automobile and boat sales, service and storage;
   (C)   Gas dispensing stations;
   (D)   Mixed business/residential uses;
   (E)   Multiple-family dwellings; and
   (F)   Vacation homes.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-106) (Ord. 961, passed - -; Ord. 962, passed - -; Ord. 1032,
passed - -; Ord. 1036, passed - -)
§ 159.341 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed 75 feet in height.
   (B)   Yards required. No yards are required, except as herein otherwise
specified.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-107) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.342 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Multiple-family dwellings granted a conditional use permit shall
comply with all regulations of the multiple-family district. Only one building
for living purposes shall be permitted on one zoning lot, except as otherwise
provided herein. Conditional uses shall be in conformity with their respective
districts.
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided for all uses
established in this district unless otherwise specified herein. All drive-in-
type restaurants shall provide adequate off-street space for the maneuvering
and parking of patrons’ vehicles.
   (C)   Automobile repair shops and gas dispensing stations shall be subject
to the following provisions.
      (1)   No major repair work is performed out-of-doors.
      (2)   Pumps, lubrication or other devices shall be at least 20 feet from
any street line.
      (3)   All gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, fuel, oil or similar
substances that are for resale shall meet state standards.
      (4)   All automobile parts, dismantled vehicles and similar articles
shall be stored within a building.
   (D)   Mixed business/residential uses granted a conditional use permit shall
not include the construction of a business building in the yard of a residence,
or within an existing residence, or the construction of a residence within the
yard of a business.
   (E)   Broadcast transmission and receiving towers are limited to 35 feet in
height.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-108) Penalty, see §
159.999
HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 159.355 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   To provide commercial areas for a wide variety of retail and service
establishments which can function most satisfactorily in an area directly
related to a highway due to the nature of the merchandise handled, the display
space required, the method of transport required and primary dependence on
vehicular access.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-202)
§ 159.356 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
   Highway Commercial District Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Lots 1—9 and 55—83, Block 1; Block 2; Lots 3—46, Block 3; Lots 10—20, Block 14;
Lots 1—5 and 32—36, Block 16; Lots 8—20, Block 17; Lots 10—19, Block 28; Lots 16—38,
Block 29; Lots 1—15, Block 30; Lots 1—15, Block 31; Block 32; Lots 11—19, Block 33; a
portion of Lot 11 and all of Lots 12—14 and the south half of the adjacent vacated
alley, Block 44; Block 45; Lots 1—15, Block 46; Lots 1—15, Block 47; Lots 1—15, Block
60; Lots 1—15, Block 61; Original Townsite
2.   Lots 1 and 2, Jones Subdivision; Kruse Addition; Lots 1A, 1B, 2A, 2, 4, 5A, 5B,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18A, 18B and 19, Yellowstone Landing
Subdivision; Lots 1—12, west half of Lot 15—25, Block 7, Outlot T4 and Outlot 1,
Thomas Acres; Lots 1—5, VIB Subdivision; Lots N.C.-1, N.C.-2, N.C.–3, N.C.-4, N.C.-5,
N.C -6A, N.C.–6B; S.C.-1, S.C.-2, S.C.-3, S.C.-5, Young’s Outlot No. 1; Spencer’s
Outlot between Waldron and Skerrol’s Street, north side of U.S. Highway 14/34; Lots
A.S. 2, C.S. 1-C.S. 4 in the NE 1/4 Section 28; Spencer’s Outlots 1A—30A, south of
U.S. Highway 14/34; Lots T-1 and T-2, Spencer’s Outlot; Spencer’s Outlot No. 1;
Reconciliation Place Addition; Lot A-1 of Lot A, Young’s Outlot No. 1 in SE 1/4 of
Section 20-T5N-R31E (west of Prairie Villa Court); Lot 4, Latham Ranch Addition,
except the westerly 470 feet; Spencer’s Outlots 49—51; Lots 1A—1E, OVC Addition; Lot 2
of Marion’s Woodland Subdivision
3.   Lots 14—23, Block 25; Lots 14—23 and 24—33, Block 26; Lots 1—23, Block 36; Block
35; Lots 1—13, Block 37; Lots 1—26, Block 38, Stanley Townsite
4.   Lots 1—15, Lookout Ridge Commercial Development, Phase 1, located in the north
751.2 feet of SW 1/4 NE 1/4 Section 20, Township 5 North, Range 31 East
 
(Prior Code, § Q-6-201) (Ord. 875, passed - -; Ord. 887, passed - -; Ord. 902,
passed - -; Ord. 926, passed - -; Ord. 945, passed - -; Ord. 964, passed - -;
Ord. 984, passed - -; Ord. 1001, passed - -; Ord. 1002, passed - -; Ord. 1010,
passed - -; Ord. 1014, passed - -; Ord. 1019, passed - -; Ord. 1031, passed - -
)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.357 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in the
Highway Commercial District:
   (A)   Car washes;
   (B)   Drive-in food services;
   (C)   Educational facilities;
   (D)   Financial institutions;
   (E)   Gas dispensing stations;
   (F)   Groceries;
   (G)   Hotels and motels;
   (H)   Indoor or outdoor recreation facilities;
   (I)   Offices;
   (J)   Parking facilities or lots;
   (K)   Personal and health service stores;
   (L)   Public transportation facilities;
   (M)   Public utility facilities;
   (N)   Railroad through and spur tracks;
   (O)   Retail or service stores;
   (P)   Other light retail and service establishments approved by the City
Planning and Zoning Commission, except those uses enumerated in another
district;
   (Q)   Day care facilities and centers; and
   (R)   Cannabis dispensaries (subject to Chapter 160).
(Prior Code, § Q-6-203) (Ord. 952, passed - -; Ord. 961, passed - -; Ord. 1032,
passed - -; Ord. 1036, passed - -; Ord. 1053, passed - -)
§ 159.358 CERTAIN USES DECLARED INCOMPATIBLE AND EXCLUDED.
   The following uses are hereby declared incompatible with the purposes of the
Highway Commercial District and are hereby expressly excluded:
   (A)   Drive-in theaters;
   (B)   Petroleum bulk storage plants; and
   (C)   Warehouses.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-204)
§ 159.359 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
permitted uses in the district, and provided that such use shall conform to all
performance standards set forth for this district:
   (B)   Cannabis cultivation facilities (accessory to a cannabis dispensary
only); and
   (C)   Cannabis product manufacturing facilities (accessory to a cannabis
dispensary only).
(Prior Code, § Q-6-205) (Ord. 884, passed - -; Ord. 1053, passed - -)
§ 159.360 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Automobile and truck sales, service and storage;
   (B)   Building material sales;
   (C)   Feed and seed stores;
   (D)   Implement sales and services;
   (E)   Assembly and packaging;
   (F)   Drop-off, buyback or transfer sites for recyclables;
   (G)   Contractor shops and storage yards;
   (H)   Frozen food lockers;
   (I)   Freight handling;
   (J)   Kennels;
   (K)   Light manufacturing or processing;
   (L)   Mixed business/residential uses;
   (M)   Animal grooming salons;
   (N)   Mini storage facilities; and
   (O)   Vacation homes.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-206) (Ord. 809, passed - -; Ord. 865, passed - -; Ord. 884,
passed - -; Ord. 961, passed - -; Ord. 1032, passed - -; Ord. 1036, passed - -)
§ 159.361 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed 75 feet.
   (B)   Percentage of lot coverage. All buildings, including accessory
buildings, shall not cover more than 80% of the area of the lot.
   (C)   Yards required. Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards of not
less than the depths or widths following:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard depth: None required, but has to comply with loading zone
requirements; and
      (3)   Side yard width: None required, except on corner lots, on which the
side setback shall be not less than 25 feet unless approved by the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-207) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.362 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided for all uses
established in this district unless otherwise specified herein.
   (B)   Automobile repair shops and filling stations shall be subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   No repair work is performed out-of-doors.
      (2)   Pumps, lubricating or other devices shall be at least 20 feet from
any street line.
      (3)   All gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, fuel, oil or similar
substances that are for resale shall meet state standards.
      (4)   All automobile parts, dismantled vehicles and similar articles
shall be stored within a building.
   (C)   Mixed/residential uses granted a conditional use permit shall not
include the construction of a business building in the yard of a residence, or
within an existing residence, or the construction of a residence within the
yard of a business.
   (D)   Conditional uses shall be in conformity with their respective
districts.
   (E)   Broadcast transmissions and receiving towers are limited to 35 feet
high.
   (F)   Service or access roads may be required at the discretion of the City
Planning and Zoning Commission. Property required to create service or access
roads will be provided by the property owner or developer. Service or access
roads will be developed to normal city street standards. Service or access that
will carry truck traffic will be developed to carry such traffic without
pavement or sub-base breakup. Development plans for service or access roads
will be approved by the City Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Prior Code, § Q-6-208) Penalty, see §
159.999
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 159.375 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This district provides for a wide range of industrial, manufacturing,
warehousing or storage uses, all of which shall be able to meet comparatively
rigid specifications as to nuisance-free performance.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-102)
§ 159.376 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
   Industrial District Legal Boundary Descriptions
   Industrial District Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Lots 1—10, with a portion of Lot 11, Lots 15—28, Block 44, 48, 49, 59, Original
Townsite
2.   Elevator Subdivision
3.   Lots A, 2A, 2B, 2C and 3 of Maher Subdivision
4.   Lots 1—9 and 11—16 of O’Day Second Subdivision
5.   Lots 3—18 of Thomas First Subdivision, Section 28
6.   Easterly 300 feet of the W 1/2 SE 1/4 Section 17; easterly 300 feet of the W 1/4 NE
1/4 Section 17
7.   Volmer Outlot No. 1 of Government Lot 1, SE 1/4 Section 20 and SW 1/4 Section 21
8.   Lots A, M, and G in SW 1/4 and Lots 9J—13J, Spencer’s Outlots in Government Lot 4,
all in Section 21-T5N-R31E
9.   O’Day’s Outlot, Rankin Tract A, Lot 1-A, Ranking Outlot 2, Lots T3-T15, Turman
Tract, all in NW 1/4 Section 28
10.   Rankin Outlot 3, SW 1/4 Section 28
11.   Haisch Outlot 1, SW 1/4 Section 28
12.   Spencer’s Outlots 9—30 and Lot T1 in NW 1/4 north of U.S. Highway 14/34, Sections
20, 21 and 28
13.   Lots 1—9 of Foothills Subdivision, a subdivision of a portion of Lot R-2, a
portion of SW 1/4 NW 1/4 and R-3, a portion in SE 1/4 NW 1/4, Section 28-T5N-R31E
14.   Lot G, being a subdivision of Government Lot 4, Section 21-T5N-R31E
15.   Spencer’s Outlot No. 1, being a tract of land lying in S 1/2 SE 1/4 Section 20,
and in the N 1/2 NE 1/4 Section 29, all in T5N, R31E
16.   Lots 2—46 of Spencer’s Outlots, in NW 1/4 of Section 28-T5N-R31E
17.   Lots 1A—24A and 27A—37A of Spencer’s Outlots, being SE 1/4 SE 1/4 Section 20-T5N-
R31E
18.   Lots 1 and 2 of Jones Subdivision of Lot A of Government Lot 6 in NW 1/4 NE 1/
4 Section 28-T5N-R31E
19.   Lot 3, Latham Ranch Addition
20.   Westerly 470 feet of Lot 4, Latham Ranch Addition
 
(Prior Code, § Q-7-101) (Ord. 875, passed - -; Ord. 905, passed - -; Ord. 927,
passed - -; Ord. 1002, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.377 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Assembly and packaging;
   (B)   Automobile, heavy truck and equipment sales;
   (C)   Auto and truck rentals;
   (D)   Building material sales;
   (E)   Concrete ready-mix plants;
   (F)   Contractor shops, storage and equipment yards;
   (G)   Dairy products;
   (H)   Freight and handling;
   (I)   Grain elevators, grain and mill products;
   (J)   Machine shops, metal processing and fabrication;
   (K)   Manufacturing;
   (L)   Motor vehicle repair shops;
   (M)   Parking facilities or lots;
   (N)   Petroleum bulk plants;
   (O)   Printing or publishing;
   (P)   Processing, light;
   (Q)   Public utility facilities;
   (R)   Railroad through and spur tracks, sidings and other terminal-type
facilities;
   (S)   Recycling facilities;
   (T)   Salvage yards;
   (U)   Storage and warehousing;
   (V)   Truck stops;
   (W)   Veterinary;
   (X)   Wholesale trade; and
   (Y)   Any industrial use which can meet the performance standards set forth
for this district but is not specifically excluded or specifically mentioned as
belonging in another less restrictive district.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-103)
§ 159.378 CERTAIN USES DECLARED INCOMPATIBLE AND EXCLUDED.
   The following uses are hereby declared incompatible with the purpose of the
Industrial District and are hereby expressly excluded:
   (A)   All dwellings;
   (B)   Drive-in theaters;
   (C)   Feed yards;
   (D)   Mobile home parks;
   (E)   Hospitals, clinics, rest homes and other institutions for the housing
or care of human beings;
   (F)   Public, parochial and private schools and colleges, except trade
schools; and
   (G)   Any use which is not enumerated as permitted in this district but is
specifically provided for in another district or districts.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-104)
§ 159.379 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
permitted uses in the district, and provided that such use shall conform to all
performance standards set forth for this district;
   (B)   Cannabis cultivation facilities (accessory to a cannabis dispensary
only); and
   (C)   Cannabis product manufacturing facilities (accessory to a cannabis
dispensary only).
(Prior Code, § Q-7-105)
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see Ord. 1053, passed - -.
§ 159.380 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Offices;
   (B)   Retail or service stores;
   (C)   Temporary recreational uses; and
   (D)   Cannabis dispensaries (subject to Chapter 160).
(Prior Code, § Q-7-106) (Ord. 1053, passed - -)
§ 159.381 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Physical appearance.
      (1)   All operations shall be carried on within an enclosed building,
except that new materials or equipment in operable condition may be stored in
the open. Normal daily wastes of an inorganic nature may be stored in
containers not in a building when such containers are not readily visible from
the street. The provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to prohibit
the display of merchandise or vehicles for sale or the open storage of
vehicles, boats, farm machinery, trailers, mobile homes or similar equipment
when in operable condition.
      (2)   Contractors’ storage yards, equipment storage yards, junk, salvage,
auto wrecking and similar operations shall be screened from view from streets
and from adjacent properties and other zoning districts by means of a sight-
obscuring fence, not to exceed a height of 80 inches, approved by the City
Inspector or his or her designee. The fence shall be maintained in good repair.
The fence shall be constructed within a period of 90 days after notification by
the City Building Inspector or his or her designee after the date of passage of
this chapter.
      (3)   Temporary recreational uses approved as a conditional use shall not
involve any appreciable amount of fixed construction and shall not interfere
with the efficient functioning of the district for its primary purpose of
providing for industrial uses.
   (B)   Fire hazard. All flammable substances involved in any activity
established in this district shall be handled in conformance with the standards
of the National Board of Fire Underwriters, National Fire Protection
Association, OSHA and any additional regulations of the city.
   (C)   Noise. All noise and noise-causing activities shall be muffled so that
they will not create a disturbance greater than normal peak hour traffic noise
on a major street when observed from any area zoned residential. Major street
noise, for comparison purposes, shall be measured on the primary state highway
nearest the industry.
   (D)   Sewage and liquid waste. No operation shall be carried on which
involves the discharge into a sewer, water course or the ground of liquid
wastes of any radioactive nature or liquid wastes of a chemical nature which
are detrimental to normal sewage plant operation or corrosive and damaging to
sewer pipes and installations. Any liquid wastes that create heavy loading on
the city sanitary system will be subject to treatment by the owner, according
to reasonable industrial standards, before being discharged into the city sewer
system or by other agreement with the City Council.
   (E)   Air contaminants.
      (1)   Air contaminants and smoke shall be less dark than designated
Number Two on the Ringleman Chart, as published by the United States Bureau of
Mines, except that smoke of a density designated as Number Two shall be
permitted for one period of four minutes in each one-half hour. Light-colored
contaminants of such opacity as to obscure an observer’s view to a degree equal
to or greater than the aforesaid shall not be permitted.
      (2)   Particulate matter of dust, as measured at the point of emission by
any generally accepted method, shall not be emitted in excess of two-tenths
grains per cubic foot, as corrected to a temperature of 500°F.
      (3)   Due to the fact that the possibilities of air contamination cannot
reasonably be comprehensively covered in this section, there shall be applied
the general rule that there shall not be discharged, from any source
whatsoever, such quantities of air contaminants or other material in such
quantity as to cause injury, detriment, nuisance or annoyance to any
considerable number of persons or to the public in general, or to endanger the
comfort, repose, health or safety of any such considerable number of persons,
or to cause or have a natural tendency to cause injury or damage to business,
vegetation or property.
   (F)   Odor. Odor-causing operations shall be controlled so as to reduce the
escape of odors to the minimum practical within the limits of technology and
economics.
   (G)   Gases. All noxious gases shall be controlled to the extent that they
will not be injurious to life and property. The gases sulfur dioxide and
hydrogen sulfide shall not exceed five parts per million, carbon monoxide shall
not exceed 25 parts per million and nitrous fumes shall not exceed five parts
per million. Measurements shall be taken at the zoning lot line.
   (H)   Vibration. All machines, including punch presses and stamping
machines, shall be so mounted as to minimize vibration. Vibration shall not be
so excessive that it interferes with industrial operations on nearby zoning
lots.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-107) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.382 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed 75 feet in height;
   (B)   Required lot area. No required lot area;
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. Entire lot may be covered, except as
herein otherwise specified; and
   (D)   Yard required. Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards of not
less than the depths or widths following:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 30 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard depth: None required, but has to comply with loading zone
requirements; and
      (3)   Side yard width: None required, except on corner lots, on which the
side setback shall be not less than 30 feet unless approved by the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-108) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.383 REQUIREMENTS FOR SELECTED USES.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided for all uses
established in this district unless otherwise specified herein.
   (B)   Automobile repair shops and filling stations shall be subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   Pumps, lubricating or other devices shall be at least 20 feet from
any street.
      (2)   All gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, fuel, oil or similar
substances that are for resale shall be stored according to state standards.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-109) Penalty, see §
159.999
SALE BARN DISTRICT
§ 159.395 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This district provides for the limited use of stockyards, which shall meet
specifications as to nuisance-free performance.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-202)
§ 159.396 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
Sale Barn District Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Blocks 58 and 63; Lots 10—21, Block 64, Original Townsite
2.   Lot 1 of Government Lot 3, SE 1/4 Section 28; Lot 2, N 1/2 SW 1/4 Section
28; Lots 15—26, O’Day Subdivision; Lot 1 of Government Lot 4, SW 1/4 Section 28;
Lots 1 and 2 of Thomas First Subdivision
 
(Prior Code, § Q-7-201) (Ord. 909, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.397 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Any use which can meet the performance standards for this district,
except as herein modified; and
   (B)   The following uses shall be allowed only in this district: yards for
the sale, transfer and temporary holding of livestock.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-203)
§ 159.398 ACCESSORY USES.
   Any accessory use normally appurtenant to a permitted use shall be allowed,
provided such use shall conform with all performance standards set forth for
this district.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-204)
§ 159.399 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Temporary recreational uses.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-205)
§ 159.400 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Appearance. Operations shall be shielded from view from streets and
from adjacent properties in another district by means of a sturdy, sight-
obscuring fence in good repair. Temporary recreational uses approved as a
conditional use shall not involve any appreciable amount of fixed construction
and shall not interfere with the efficient functioning of the district or its
primary purpose of providing for stockyards.
   (B)   Fire hazard. All flammable substances involved in any activity
established in this district shall be handled in conformance with the standards
of the National Board of Fire Underwriters, National Fire Protection
Association and any additional regulations of the city.
   (C)   Noise. All noise and noise-causing activities shall be muffled so that
they will not create a disturbance greater than normal peak hour traffic noise
on a major street when observed from any area zoned residential. Major street
noise, for comparison purposes, shall be measured on the primary state highway
nearest the industry.
   (D)   Sewage and liquid wastes. No operation shall be carried on which
involves the discharge into a sewer, water course or the ground of liquid
wastes of any radioactive nature, animal wastes or liquid wastes of a chemical
nature which are detrimental to normal sewage plant operation or corrosive and
damaging to sewer pipes and installations. Any liquid wastes which create heavy
loading on the city sanitary system will be subject to treatment by the owner,
according to reasonable commercial standards, before being discharged into the
city sewer system or by other agreement with the City Council.
   (E)   Air contaminants.
      (1)   Air contaminants and smoke shall be less dark than designated
Number Two on the Ringleman Chart, as published by the United States Bureau of
Mines, except that smoke of a density designated as Number Two shall be
permitted for one period of four minutes in each one-half hour. Light-colored
contaminants of such opacity as to obscure an observer’s view to a degree equal
to or greater than the aforesaid shall not be permitted.
      (2)   Particulate matter or dust, as measured at the point of emission by
any generally accepted method, shall not be emitted in excess of two-tenths
grains per cubic foot, as corrected to a temperature of 500°F.
      (3)   Due to the fact that the possibilities of air contaminants cannot
be comprehensively covered in this section, there shall be applied the general
rule that there shall not be discharged, from any source whatsoever, such
quantities of air contaminants or other material in such quantity so as to
cause injury, detriment, nuisance or annoyance to any considerable number of
persons or the public in general, or endanger the comfort, repose, health or
safety of any such considerable number of persons or the general public, or
cause or have a natural tendency to cause injury or damage to business,
vegetation or property.
   (F)   Odor. Odor-causing operations shall be controlled so as to reduce the
escape of odors to the minimum practical within the limits of technology and
economics.
   (G)   Gases. All noxious gases shall be controlled to the extent that they
will not be injurious to life and property. The gases sulfur dioxide and
hydrogen sulfide shall not exceed five parts per million, carbon monoxide shall
not exceed 25 parts per million and nitrous fumes shall not exceed five parts
per million. All measurements shall be made at the zoning lot line.
   (H)   Vibration. All machines shall be mounted so as to minimize vibration.
Vibration shall not be so excessive that it interferes with operations on
nearby zoning lots.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-206) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.401 SPACE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Building height limit. No building shall exceed 75 feet in height;
   (B)   Required lot area. No required lot area;
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. Entire lot may be covered, except as
herein otherwise specified; and
   (D)   Yard required. Each lot shall have front, side and rear yards of not
less than the depths or widths following:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 30 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard depth: None required, but has to comply with loading zone
requirements; and
      (3)   Side yard width: None required, except on corner lots, on which the
side setback shall be not less than 30 feet unless approved by the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-207) Penalty, see §
159.999
§ 159.402 REQUIREMENTS FOR SELECTED USES.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided for all uses
established in this district unless otherwise specified herein.
   (B)   Manure shall not be allowed to accumulate to objectionable
proportions, and each feeding pen shall be scraped once a month, weather
permitting.
   (C)   Stockyards shall be cleaned at least annually, and manure shall not be
stored on-site for more than 15 days.
   (D)   Animal feed transportation on the public right-of-way shall not be
allowed to spill or slough and shall be promptly cleaned up.
   (E)   Feed shall be limited to fresh materials and shall not include sour
silage, sugar beet pulp, paunch manure, garbage or other materials which may
have a tendency to create objectionable odors.
   (F)   Parking and loading spaces sufficient to meet all reasonable demands
for such space shall be provided off the public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § Q-7-208) Penalty, see §
159.999
PARK AND RIVERFRONT DISTRICT
§ 159.415 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This district is designed to maintain public access to Lake Sharpe for
fishing, boating and other recreational activities, including public
fairgrounds and their associated uses. Manure-control requirements of the
stockyard district apply.
(Prior Code, § Q-8-102)
§ 159.416 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
   Park and Riverfront District Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   The city park known as Fischer’s Lilly Park shall be increased in size by
adding Lots 21, 22, 23 and 24, Block 152, by action of condemnation or agreement
pursuant to the condemnations laws of the state
 
(Prior Code, § Q-8-101) (Ord. 850, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-4-2 and 11-4-8
§ 159.417 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   No residential use is permitted.
   (B)   Use is limited to parks, recreation, commercial, public building and
marine facilities to the end that the entire waterfront may be developed to a
coordinated plan.
(Prior Code, § Q-8-103)
§ 159.418 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The only permitted conditional use is vacation homes.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 159.430 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of this district to provide flexibility from conventional
zoning regulations with increased public review for Planned Development
District projects in order to:
   (A)   Encourage well-planned, efficient urban development;
   (B)   Allow a planned and coordinated mix of land uses which are compatible
and which are harmonious but were previously discouraged by conventional zoning
procedures;
   (C)   Encourage more creative, higher quality and more ecological urban
design, with special consideration given to projects which incorporate
desirable design features, including, but not limited to, underground parking,
orientation or design, to take advantage of solar energy, environmental
preservation, historic preservation, handicapped-accessible structures, unique
uses of open spaces or other desirable design features; and
   (D)   Improve communication and cooperation among the city, land developers
and interested residents in the urbanization of new lands and the renewal of
existing deteriorated areas.
(Prior Code, § Q-10-102)
§ 159.431 LEGAL BOUNDARY DESCRIPTIONS.
 
   Planned Development District Legal Boundary Descriptions
1.   Marion’s Garden Planned Development District, and use per lot as follows:
   Commercial: Lots 1, 2 and 108
   Single-family: Lots 32—80, S 1/2 of 81, 82—95, 104 and 105 and 109—124
   Multiple-family: Lots 13—18
   Townhouse: Lots 19—30 and 96—103
   Condominium: Lots 3—12
   Agricultural for park use: N 1/2 of Lot 81 and Lot 106 and 107
2.   Vintage Square Estates, Lots 1—50, Block 1; Lots 1—13, Block 2; Lots 1—25, Block 3;
Lots 1 and 2, Block 4; Block 5 and Block 6; Rousseaux Avenue, Hamilton Street and
Whispering Shores Drive; all located in Relicted Lots 1, 2 and 3 and the north part of
Lot 4, and Government Lots 5 and 6, all lying in the north half of Section 21, Township
5 North, Range 31 East of the Black Hills Meridian (land use plan as filed with County
Register of Deeds on March 7, 2006)
3.   Riverview Planned Development District, containing RV-1 and RV-2, located in the NW
1/4 SW 1/4 and Lot 2 of Government Lot 5, Section 28 and NE 1/4 Section 29, T5N R31E
4.   Crane Yard Storage Planned Development District, containing Lot 6R2 and Lot 7R1,
Latham Ranch Estates
5.   T and A Single-Family Home Planned Development District, Lot 5R Latham Ranch
Estates
 
(Prior Code, § Q-10-101) (Ord. 860, passed - -; Ord. 1005, passed - -; Ord.
1052, passed - -; Ord. 1056, passed - -; Ord. 1063, passed 10-3-2022)
§ 159.432 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this subchapter, or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter when referred to in this subchapter, are the district regulations in
the Planned Development District. Functions of the Planning Department or the
Planning Director shall be performed by the Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § Q-10-103)
§ 159.433 COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The developments within the Planned Development District shall comply with
the policies and design standards of the city’s Comprehensive Development Plan.
Said development shall be mutually compatible with adjacent projected
developments.
(Prior Code, § Q-10-104)
§ 159.434 REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Initial development plan. When a petitioner wants to request rezoning
to the Planned Development District, he or she shall submit his or her request
to the City Planning and Zoning Commission, showing the information specified
in §
159.435 of this chapter, a minimum of 30 days prior to the City Planning and
Zoning Commission meeting at which consideration is desired. After the planned
development request has been reviewed, the City Planning and Zoning Commission
shall make a recommendation to the City Council and, if applicable, to the
County Commission on the requested rezoning. The City Council and, if
applicable, the County Commission shall then act to approve or deny said
request. No building permit shall be issued within the development until the
final development plan is approved and the plat is filed.
   (B)   Final development plan.
      (1)   Prior to construction on any lots in the planned development, the
petitioner shall present a final development plan, showing the information
specified in §
159.436 of this chapter, to the City Planning and Zoning Commission, which
shall make a recommendation to the City Council on said plan. The City Council
shall have the sole authority to approve, deny or amend said plan.
      (2)   The final development plan may be submitted in conjunction with the
initial development plan for concurrent approval on any subareas the developer
is ready to commit to a final plat. All the information required for both an
initial and final development plan must be shown for the area submitted for
concurrent approval, except that the developer may reference the requirements
of one of the traditional zoning districts as the development standard for a
particular subarea.
      (3)   Signs shall be posted on the property for a continuous period of
five days immediately prior to any public hearing held by the Planning and
Zoning Commission or City Council to consider any final development plan. Said
signs shall be furnished by the Department of Planning and Building Services
and posted by the applicant in the numbers and locations prescribed by the
Director.
(Prior Code, § Q-10-105)
§ 159.435 INITIAL DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   Upon application for rezoning to the Planned Development District, the
petitioner shall present an initial development plan to the City Planning and
Zoning Commission for review and to the City Council and, if applicable, the
County Commission for their approval showing the following information:
   (A)   The project name and legal description;
   (B)   A preliminary subdivision plan in compliance with §§
158.055 and
158.063 of this code; and
   (C)   A proposed development scheme showing the following information:
      (1)   The proposed land uses, including the location by lot, number and
type of proposed residential buildings, the proposed number of dwelling units
per building and the number and type of any proposed nonresidential buildings
and their square footage;
      (2)   The proposed maximum density of the development, which shall not
exceed the density allowed in the traditional zoning districts for similar
uses, except where unique physical, environmental or design characteristics
make such densities undesirable;
      (3)   The proposed minimum setbacks, which shall be not less than those
required in the traditional zoning districts for similar uses, except where
unique physical, environmental or design characteristics make such setbacks
undesirable;
      (4)   The proposed maximum height, which shall be not greater than that
required in the traditional zoning districts for similar uses, except where
unique physical, environmental or design characteristics make such heights
undesirable;
      (5)   The proposed design features, illustrating compatibility to the
surrounding environment and neighborhood; and
      (6)   The anticipated subarea development sequence. In addition, the
developer shall provide a scaled rendering on Mylar, and in compatible electric
format, of the approved initial development plan showing each of the subareas.
(Prior Code, § Q-10-106)
§ 159.436 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Prior to construction on any lots in the Planned Development Zoning
District, the petitioner shall present a final development plan to the City
Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council for their approval.
   (B)   The final development plan shall show the following information:
      (1)   The subdivision name, the legal description and the individual
project name (if any);
      (2)   The boundaries of the subarea or subareas submitted for approval
superimposed on the map of the initial development plan;
      (3)   A subdivision plat of the subarea or subareas submitted for
approval in compliance with §§
158.075 through
158.085 of this code; and
      (4)   A scale drawing showing the following information will be required
for everything except single-family detached dwelling subareas:
         (a)   Size and location of proposed structures, including height and
number of units;
         (b)   Calculated floor area for each structure and generic listing of
the uses within said structure;
         (c)   Off-street parking lot arrangements, designating all parking
spaces, off-street loading spaces and any outdoor trash container spaces;
         (d)   Any sidewalks, bikeways or other paths;
         (e)   Any outdoor lighting, type and location, except for standard
street lights provided by the city;
         (f)   Landscaping plans showing the type and location of any walls or
fences, the placement, size and species of any trees or shrubs and berms in
areas that will be sod or seeded;
         (g)   All existing and proposed utilities, drainageways and
watercourses and the location of aboveground existing utilities on adjacent
property;
         (h)   Proposed final ground contours;
         (i)   Curb cuts and all private drives;
         (j)   Adjacent, existing and proposed uses;
         (k)   First floor elevation for any structure located in a flood
hazard area;
         (l)   Accurate building elevation of all proposed structures;
         (m)   The book and page number of the filed initial development plan
at the office of the County Register of Deeds;
         (n)   Documentation of the ownership and maintenance responsibility of
any common open spaces, structures or facilities, including private streets;
         (o)   Any subareas proposed for multiple-residential development will
be required to provide an open area for recreation. Said open spaces shall not
be included in any required yard, but shall be located in the same subarea it
is intended to serve;
         (p)   Proposed parking and loading spaces, which shall be in
conformance with the area designated as the district subarea, except where
unique physical, environmental or design characteristics make such requirements
undesirable; and
         (q)   Unless otherwise specified on the final development plan, all
development standards shall be the same as those set forth in the traditional
zoning districts, which shall be referenced for each subarea as a part of the
final development plan.
(Prior Code, § Q-10-107)
§ 159.437 AMENDMENTS TO INITIAL OR FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Major amendments.
      (1)   The following changes in an initial and/or final development plan
are considered major amendments:
         (a)   Any change in the proposed land uses;
         (b)   Any major change in the street pattern; and
         (c)   An increase in density above that provided for initially.
      (2)   Major amendments to the initial and/or final development plan shall
be required to be approved in the same manner as the initial development plan,
requiring City Planning and Zoning Commission review, the City Council’s
approval and the public notice which has been provided for in the subdivision
section.
   (B)   Minor amendments.
      (1)   The following changes in an initial and/or final development plan
are considered minor amendments:
         (a)   Any adjustment in the size or shape of the building envelope
(increasing the height or reducing the building setback);
         (b)   Any change in the number or location of curb cuts;
         (c)   Any decrease in the size of required open areas;
         (d)   A minor change in the street pattern;
         (e)   Any increase in density of a subarea:
            1.   Less than 25% for a subarea with less than eight units;
            2.   Less than 15% for a subarea with between nine and 20 units; or
            3.   Less than 8% for a subarea with 21 units or more.
         (f)   Any change in the number of parking spaces.   
      (2)   Minor amendments to the initial and/or final development plan shall
be required to be approved by the City Planning and Zoning Commission at a
public hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be given by posting four signs
provided by the City Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (3)   Before any action shall be taken by the City Planning and Zoning
Commission, the applicant shall first file with the City Planning and Zoning
Commission an affidavit verifying that said signs have been posted at the
proper location for the time of two weeks.
      (4)   Minor amendments to the initial development plan may also be made
by the submission and approval of a final development plan which is changed
from the approved initial development plan. Any such amendments shall be shown
as a change from the initial development plan on file with the County Register
of Deeds.
   (C)   Minimal amendments.
      (1)   The following changes in an initial and/or final development plan
are considered minimal amendments:
         (a)   Any adjustment of a building within a previously established
building envelope; and
         (b)   A reduction in density and scale.
      (2)   Minimal amendments to the final development plan shall be submitted
to the Planning Director or his or her designee on a reproducible development
plan showing the requested changes. The Planning Director or his or her
designee may then approve such change in writing if he or she deems it
appropriate.
(Prior Code, § Q-10-108)
§ 159.438 STREET SIGNS.
   The city will provide the street signs and poles, and the developer shall
install all street signs in a manner and at the locations approved by the
Public Works Director. The developer shall, upon request, reimburse the city
for the actual cost of each street sign and pole placed within each Planned
Development District.
(Prior Code, § Q-10-109)
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 159.450 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of an overlay district is to create specific allowances and
permissions within a base zoning district or districts. Overlay districts can
allow permissive regulations and standards to create incentives for historic
preservation or for any other purpose the City Council deems appropriate. Upon
the establishment of an overlay district, development within the area shall
conform to all base zoning regulations applicable to the area but shall also be
permitted, but not required, to enjoy the articulated uses of the overlay
district. In the event of doubt, dispute or confusion between the base and
overlay districts, the description of the overlay district shall govern.
(Prior Code, § Q-14-101) (Ord. 976, passed - -)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO SOME OR ALL DISTRICTS
§ 159.465 GASOLINE DISTRIBUTION LOCATION.
   No filling station, public garage or gasoline distributing station will
hereafter be located within 300 feet of any school, church, hospital or public
meeting place.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-101) Penalty, see §
159.999
Editor’s note:
   As an additional reference, see ARSD Ch. 61:15:03.
§ 159.466 JUNK OR SALVAGE YARDS.
   No junk or salvage yard may continue as a nonconforming use for a period of
more than one year after the effective date of this chapter, except that a
junkyard may continue as a nonconforming use in the commercial or industrial
district if, within that period, it is completely enclosed within a building or
within a continuous solid fence of such height as to screen the operations of
the junk or salvage yard. Plans for such building or fence must be approved by
the Public Works Director or his or her designee before the same is erected.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-102) Penalty, see §
159.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-13, 11-4-2 and 31-30-2(3)
§ 159.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $200. Each day that the
violation is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § Q-1-115)
   (B)   Anyone found guilty of violation of §§
159.115 through
159.122 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100 or 30 days
imprisonment, or both. Every day after the violation or infraction will result
in a separate violation, compounded daily.
(Prior Code, § Q-11-106)
(Ord. 912, passed - -; Ord. 989, passed - -)
CHAPTER 160: CANNABIS
Section
   
160.01   Purpose
   
160.02   Definitions
   
160.03   Cannabis establishment requirements and restrictions
 
   
160.99   Penalty
§ 160.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council enacts the following zoning provisions in order to ensure
that cannabis establishments within the territorial jurisdiction of the city
operate in a manner which complies with state laws and regulations, protects
the health, safety and welfare of the general public, prevents potential
conflicts and issues arising from ownership and employees, recognizes certain
safety and security considerations and minimizes risk of unauthorized use or
access of cannabis by the general public.
(Prior Code, § Q-16-101)
§ 160.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless an alternative definition is explicitly stated in this section,
this subchapter utilizes the definitions for cannabis-related terms which are
defined by SDCL § 34-20G-1.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CANNABIS or MARIJUANA. All parts of any plant of the genus Cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of
MARIJUANA absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber
produced from the mature stalks of such plant or oil or cake made from the
seeds of such plant. The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L.
(hemp) and any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all
derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts and salts of
isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of not more than three-tenths of one percent on a dry weight
basis.
      CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL §
34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies or
sells cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
      CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies or
dispenses cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia or related supplies and
educational materials.
      CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis
testing facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility or a cannabis
dispensary.
      CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies or
sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
      CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts and
products that are infused with cannabis, or an extract thereof, and are
intended for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis
products, beverages, topical products, ointments, oils and tinctures.
      CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally
authorized to analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
(Prior Code, § Q-16-102)
§ 160.03 CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Maximum number of cannabis establishments.
      (1)   In the development and execution of these regulations, it is
recognized that there are some uses which, because of their very nature, are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances,
thereby having a potential deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas. Special
regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these adverse effects will
not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood.
The primary control or regulation is for the purpose of preventing a
concentration of these uses in any one area.
      (2)   The city shall allow up to three cannabis cultivating facilities,
provided the time, place and manner of said facilities complies with this
subchapter. A cannabis cultivation facility must exist in conjunction with a
cannabis dispensary.
      (3)   The city shall allow up to three cannabis dispensaries, provided
the time, place and manner of said dispensaries complies with this chapter.
      (4)   The city shall allow up to three cannabis manufacturing facilities,
provided the time, place and manner of said facilities complies with this
chapter. A cannabis manufacturing facility must exist in conjunction with a
cannabis dispensary.
      (5)   The city shall allow up to zero cannabis testing facilities.
   (B)   Required separation distances.
      (1)   A cannabis establishment shall be located not less than 1,000 feet
from a public or private school existing before the date of the cannabis
establishment application.
      (2)   A cannabis establishment shall be located not less than 500 feet
from a residence, church, public park, public swimming pool or day care
facility existing before the date of the cannabis establishment application.
      (3)   Any separation distance requirement, other than the state
requirement from schools (1,000 feet), may be waived, provided: the applicant
provides documentation waiving the setback requirement from the title holder of
the land benefitting from the separation.
      (4)   Prescribed separation/setback distances from certain existing uses
are to be measured from the lot line of the property where the dispensary is
proposed.
   (C)   Other locational requirements.
      (1)   Permanent or temporary establishments are prohibited in all other
zoning districts and not eligible for a home occupation use.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate an establishment in a building
which contains a residence or a mixed-use building with commercial and
residential uses.
      (3)   All cannabis establishment activities shall occur indoors.
   (D)   Location within municipal boundaries. All cannabis establishments must
be located within the municipal boundaries of the city.
   (E)   Controlled access to other cannabis establishments. No cannabis
establishment shall share premises with or permit access directly from another
medical cannabis establishment unless said establishment is licensed by the
same entity.
   (F)   Prohibited access to alcohol or tobacco sellers. No cannabis
establishment shall share premises with or permit access directly from another
business that sells alcohol or tobacco.
   (G)   Hours of operation. Cannabis establishments are allowed to be open to
the public between the hours of 7:00 a.m., Mountain Standard Time, and 7:00
p.m., Mountain Standard Time, on Monday through Sunday.
   (H)   Documentation of state licensure. No cannabis establishment shall
acquire, possess, store, deliver, transfer, transport, supply or dispense
cannabis, cannabis products or paraphernalia without providing documentation of
licensure from the state.
   (I)   Permits for cannabis establishments. The zoning official is authorized
to issue permits (building/use) for cannabis establishments subject to the
following:   
      (1)   Submission of a site plan containing the following:
         (a)   Any information required for the applicable building permit;
         (b)   Ingress and egress plan;
         (c)   Parking plan;
         (d)   Lighting plan (including security lighting);
         (e)   Screening/security fencing plan;
         (f)   Refuse plan;
         (g)   Hours of operation; and
         (h)   Any other information as lawfully may be required by the zoning
official to determine compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   Documentation of ability to meet setback/separation requirements;
and
      (3)   Documentation of state licensure.
   (J)   Construction of establishments. All cannabis establishments are
required to be constructed in conformance with the Building Code and Fire Code
as adopted in §§
150.01 and
150.05.
   (K)   Compliance with state statutes. All cannabis establishments shall be
in compliance with SDCL Ch. 34-20G. If the state adopts stricter regulations
governing cannabis establishments than those set forth herein, the stricter
regulations shall control the establishment or operation of any cannabis
establishment licensed by the city.
(Prior Code, § Q-16-103)
§ 160.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
maximum penalty allowed by law. Each day of the violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. See penalties set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   DEVELOPMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishing a nonexclusive gas distribution franchise
-        - -         with Montana-Dakota Utilities Co. for 20 years.
                     (Prior Code, § J-3)
                    
 
TABLE II: DEVELOPMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishing the Business Improvement District for
-        - -         economic development and setting out its purpose,
                     boundaries and details.
                     (Prior Code, § W-1)
                     Establishing the authority to develop property jointly
-        - -         owned by the City of Fort Pierre and the City of Pierre
                     known as the HUSTAN property.
                     (Prior Code, § Z-1)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Cite Code Section
SDCL Cite               Code Section
Ch. 1-24                32.16
1-24-2                  32.03
1-27-1                  31.19
1-27-1.16               31.19
1-30-5                  30.02;
                        30.03
5-14-1                  34.08
Ch. 5-18A through 5-18C 33.18
6-13-2                  32.16
9-1-1                   10.02;
                        10.04
9-1-5                   50.02
9-2-3                   30.01;
                        30.03
9-2-7                   11.02
9-3-2                   11.01
                        30.01 -
Ch. 9-8                 30.04;
                        31.01
9-8-1                   30.02
9-8-1.1                 30.03
9-8-2                   30.02
9-8-3                   31.06;
                        31.17
9-8-4                   30.03
                        31.05;
                        31.07 -
9-8-5                   31.18;
                        31.20;
                        32.31;
                        54.55
                        30.02;
9-8-7                   31.05;
                        31.08
                        31.03;
9-8-8                   31.04;
                        31.09;
                        31.11
9-8-9                   31.18
9-8-10                  31.06;
                        31.12
9-12-1(2)               159.018
9-12-3                  33.02 -
                        33.04
9-12-3.1                32.16
9-12-4                  32.03
9-12-7                  151.018;
                        151.999
                        150.60;
                        159.001;
9-12-13                 159.003;
                        159.004;
                        159.080;
                        159.466
9-13-13                 10.04
9-13-16                 11.02
                        31.01;
Ch. 9-14                33.02 -
                        33.04
                        30.03;
                        30.04;
                        31.13;
9-14-3                  32.15;
                        32.16;
                        32.30;
                        32.32
9-14-22                 31.16
                        32.30;
                        32.31;
9-14-27                 50.01;
                        50.02;
                        151.110
Ch. 9-19                31.01
9-19-1                  10.04;
                        31.02
                        10.14;
                        10.99;
                        31.16;
                        33.15;
                        33.19;
                        33.20;
                        34.01;
                        34.20;
                        34.99;
                        53.07;
                        53.26;
                        54.53;
                        54.99;
                        70.99;
                        71.99;
                        72.99; Ch. 73, Schd. I; 90.999;
                        91.15;
                        91.18;
                        91.99;
9-19-3                  92.19;
                        92.20;
                        92.28;
                        92.29;
                        92.99;
                        110.99;
                        112.99;
                        130.03;
                        131.99;
                        132.99;
                        133.01 -
                        133.08;
                        133.99;
                        134.01;
                        134.99;
                        150.37 -
                        150.41;
                        150.99;
                        151.035;
                        152.06;
                        152.16
9-19-5                  31.16
                        31.16;
9-19-7                  150.02;
                        150.05
9-19-8                  31.19
9-19-9                  31.16
9-19-10                 31.06
9-19-11                 31.06
Ch. 9-21                31.01
9-21-18.1               31.06
Ch. 9-23                31.01
9-23-1                  31.15
9-23-2                  31.15
                        11.01;
                        11.03;
                        32.02;
                        50.03 -
                        50.05;
                        52.04;
                        52.06;
                        52.07;
                        53.02;
                        53.06;
                        53.07;
                        53.09;
                        53.24;
                        53.26;
                        54.04;
                        54.05;
                        54.08;
                        54.30 -
                        54.37;
                        54.50 -
                        54.54;
                        90.001;
                        90.002;
                        90.006;
                        90.021;
                        90.035;
                        91.01 -
                        91.03;
                        92.01;
                        92.18;
                        94.02 -
                        94.04;
9-29-1                  94.99;
                        114.02 -
                        114.06;
                        130.01;
                        130.02;
                        131.03;
                        131.04;
                        132.02;
                        132.04;
                        132.05;
                        133.02 -
                        133.04;
                        133.06 -
                        133.08;
                        150.05;
                        150.20;
                        150.36 -
                        150.41;
                        150.99;
                        151.035;
                        151.088 -
                        151.092;
                        151.094;
                        151.095;
                        151.097;
                        151.099;
                        151.105;
                        151.109;
                        153.01 -
                        153.07;
                        153.20 -
                        153.22;
                        159.030
                        32.02;
                        92.17;
9-29-2                  92.18;
                        131.03;
                        131.05
                        131.01;
                        131.02;
9-29-3                  132.03;
                        132.07;
                        134.01
9-29-4                  132.05;
                        132.06
                        112.01 -
9-29-7                  112.03;
                        132.01;
                        134.03
                        90.001;
9-29-11                 90.020;
                        90.021
                        90.001 -
                        90.006;
9-29-12                 90.036;
                        90.037;
                        90.070 -
                        90.072
                        90.006;
                        90.035;
                        90.037;
                        91.01 -
                        91.03;
                        91.16;
                        91.18;
                        92.01;
                        92.15 -
9-29-13                 92.27;
                        92.29;
                        150.20 -
                        150.22;
                        150.37;
                        151.052;
                        151.093;
                        152.01;
                        152.06;
                        152.08 -
                        152.17
9-29-17                 32.02
9-29-19                 32.02
Ch. 9-30                151.050
                        151.085 -
                        151.089;
9-30-1                  151.092;
                        151.093;
                        151.096 -
                        151.115
                        70.01;
                        70.02;
                        70.11 -
                        70.13;
                        70.99;
                        72.01;
                        72.05 -
9-30-2                  72.08;
                        72.99; Ch. 74, Schd. I; Ch. 74, Schd. II; 151.016;
                        151.017;
                        151.051;
                        151.052;
                        151.091;
                        151.104;
                        156.30
                        151.018;
                        151.999;
9-30-3                  153.01 -
                        153.07;
                        153.20 -
                        153.22
9-30-5                  151.017;
                        151.051
                        70.01 -
                        70.13;
                        70.99;
                        71.01 -
                        71.04;
9-31-1                  71.06;
                        71.99;
                        72.01;
                        72.03 -
                        72.08;
                        72.99; Ch. 73, Schd. I; Ch. 73, Schd. III; Ch. 74,
                        Schd. I; Ch. 74, Schd. II; 156.30
9-31-2                  70.04
                        70.06;
                        70.07;
9-31-3                  70.99;
                        71.03;
                        71.04;
                        71.99; Ch. 73, Schd. I
9-31-4                  70.08
                        90.035 -
                        90.037;
                        91.15 -
                        91.18;
9-32-1                  91.32;
                        92.16;
                        92.21;
                        152.01;
                        152.06 -
                        152.18
9-32-7                  90.006
9-32-8                  91.30
                        54.13 -
                        54.15;
                        54.30 -
9-32-9                  54.37;
                        54.50 -
                        54.54;
                        54.99
                        91.30;
                        91.31;
                        93.01 -
                        93.05;
                        93.20 -
9-32-10                 93.26;
                        93.40 -
                        93.42;
                        93.44 -
                        93.46;
                        93.99
                        93.02 -
                        93.05;
                        93.20;
                        93.21;
                        93.24;
9-32-11                 93.25;
                        93.41;
                        93.43 -
                        93.46;
                        93.99;
                        110.03
9-32-12                 152.01 -
                        152.06
                        91.19;
                        94.01 -
                        94.04;
                        94.99;
9-33-1                  114.01 -
                        114.06;
                        150.05;
                        150.55 -
                        150.62
                        94.01;
9-33-4                  150.05;
                        151.095;
                        153.03
                        94.01;
                        150.02;
9-33-4.1                150.05;
                        150.39;
                        150.42
9-33-5                  150.02
9-33-6                  150.61
9-33-9                  150.36
9-33-10                 150.39
9-33-11                 32.01;
                        151.089
9-33-12                 32.01
9-33-13                 32.01
                        30.05;
                        110.01 -
                        110.06;
                        110.20 -
                        110.32;
                        110.45 -
9-34-1                  110.50;
                        110.99;
                        111.01 -
                        111.04;
                        111.15 -
                        111.28;
                        111.40 -
                        111.43
                        30.05;
                        111.02 -
                        111.04;
9-34-8                  111.15 -
                        111.28;
                        111.40 -
                        111.43
9-34-12                 110.03
                        30.05;
                        111.01 -
                        111.04;
9-34-18                 111.15 -
                        111.28;
                        111.40 -
                        111.43
9-35-1                  51.001
                        157.04;
9-36-16                 157.05;
                        157.67
9-38-1                  133.06 -
                        133.08
9-38-2                  151.052
                        50.25;
                        50.28;
                        50.30; 50.45 though 50.48;
9-39-1                  50.50 -
                        50.56;
                        52.01 -
                        52.07
                        50.03;
                        50.20 -
                        50.24;
                        50.26 -
                        50.30;
9-39-23                 50.45 -
                        50.56;
                        51.001;
                        51.064;
                        52.04;
                        52.06
                        50.03 -
                        50.05;
9-40-1                  50.45 -
                        50.48;
                        50.52 -
                        50.56
Ch. 9-43                50.29
9-43-127                54.12
9-43-138                34.55
                        151.015;
                        151.036;
                        151.085 -
9-45-1                  151.088;
                        151.090 -
                        151.100;
                        151.102 -
                        151.115
9-45-2                  151.030 -
                        151.037
9-45-5                  151.065 -
                        151.068
9-45-6                  151.030 -
                        151.032
9-46-1                  151.015;
                        151.016
9-46-11                 151.001
                        50.26 -
                        50.29;
                        50.45;
                        51.046;
9-47-1                  51.047;
                        53.01 -
                        53.09;
                        53.20 -
                        53.26
                        51.062 -
Ch. 9-48                51.064;
                        54.05
                        50.28;
                        50.30;
                        50.45;
                        51.060 -
                        51.065;
9-48-2                  54.01;
                        54.02;
                        54.04;
                        54.05;
                        54.07;
                        54.08
9-48-26                 51.001
                        51.001;
                        51.060;
9-48-27                 51.063 -
                        51.066;
                        51.068
9-48-28                 51.001
9-48-31                 51.001
9-48-32                 51.067;
                        54.12
9-48-53                 54.03
9-51-1                  151.090;
                        151.091
10-6-137                34.40;
                        34.41
10-6-138                34.40 -
                        34.42
10-6-141                34.41
                        34.03;
Ch. 10-45               34.05;
                        34.07;
                        34.99
10-45-1                 34.02
10-45-4                 34.02
10-45-5                 34.02
                        34.05 -
Ch. 10-46               34.07;
                        34.99
Ch. 10-46A              34.02
Ch. 10-46B              34.02
                        34.01;
                        34.04;
Ch. 10-52               34.05;
                        34.20;
                        34.25
10-52-1                 34.02
                        34.01;
10-52-2                 34.03;
                        34.06 -
                        34.08
                        34.04;
10-52-4                 34.25;
                        34.99
10-52-5                 34.04;
                        34.25
10-52-8                 34.21
10-52-9                 34.03
                        34.20;
Ch. 10-52A              34.22 -
                        34.24
                        32.16;
Ch. 11-4                154.26;
                        154.27;
                        159.030
                        90.001;
11-4-1                  150.20 -
                        150.22;
                        159.080
                        159.003;
                        159.004;
                        159.136;
                        159.176;
                        159.196;
                        159.216;
                        159.236;
11-4-2                  159.256;
                        159.276;
                        159.296;
                        159.336;
                        159.356;
                        159.376;
                        159.396;
                        159.416;
                        159.466
                        159.001;
11-4-3                  159.011;
                        159.012;
                        159.033
11-4-4                  159.007
11-4-5                  159.007
11-4-7                  150.21;
                        150.22
                        159.007;
                        159.136;
                        159.176;
                        159.196;
                        159.216;
11-4-8                  159.236;
                        159.256;
                        159.276;
                        159.296;
                        159.336; 159.356: 159.376;
                        159.396;
                        159.416
11-4-11                 32.16
11-4-14                 159.031
11-4-15                 159.031
11-4-16                 159.031
11-4-17                 159.031
11-4-19                 159.031
11-4-20                 159.031
11-4-21                 159.031
11-4-22                 159.031
11-4-23                 159.031
11-4-25                 32.17;
                        159.031
                        32.16;
11-6-2                  32.17;
                        159.018;
                        159.032
11-6-3                  159.032
11-6-7                  159.032
11-6-8                  159.032
11-6-9                  159.032
11-6-10                 159.030
11-6-11                 159.001;
                        159.030
11-6-12                 159.030
11-6-12.1               159.030
11-6-26                 158.003
11-6-29                 151.094
11-7-2                  34.41
11-7-3                  34.41
11-8-4                  34.41
11-8-38                 32.16
11-10-5                 150.02;
                        150.42
11-10-11                92.02
11-14-13                159.031
13-13-20.4              34.42
Ch. 21-10               156.99
21-10-1                 150.37
                        91.18;
                        150.37;
21-10-6                 152.12;
                        152.14;
                        152.15
22-1-2                  130.02
22-2-1                  130.03
22-6-2(2)               10.99
22-11-6                 131.07
Ch. 22-12A              33.19;
                        33.20
22-13-1                 31.13;
                        131.02
22-18-2                 130.04
22-24-1.1               132.04
22-30A-17               133.03
                        53.26;
22-34-1                 133.04;
                        133.08
                        52.07;
22-34-28                53.07;
                        54.53;
                        133.09
22-35-6                 133.02
22-40-16                32.02
Ch. 23A-3               32.02
Ch. 26-7A               134.01
26-7A-1(21)             134.01
Ch. 26-8                134.01
Ch. 26-8A               134.01
Ch. 26-8B               134.01
Ch. 26-8C               134.01
31-30-2(3)              159.466
31-33-10                151.087
32-4-4                  133.01
32-5-1                  70.02
32-5-1.2                70.02;
                        70.03
Ch. 32-14               70.04
32-14-3                 71.03
32-15-11                70.05
32-20-1                 70.03
32-20-12                70.03
32-24-1                 70.07
32-25-16                71.02
32-30-6.2               72.06;
                        156.30
32-30-11.1              72.05;
                        72.06; Ch. 74, Schd. II; 156.30
32-30-12                92.15
                        92.21;
32-30-12.1              92.22;
                        92.27
32-30-13                92.15;
                        92.22
32-30-14                92.15
                        92.15;
32-30-15                92.23;
                        92.25;
                        92.27
32-30-18                92.15;
                        92.26
32-31-1                 70.11;
                        70.12
32-32-2                 92.15
32-34-3                 70.10
                        92.23;
32-36-8                 92.25;
                        92.27
                        92.24;
32-36-9                 92.25;
                        92.27
                        92.24;
32-36-11                92.25;
                        92.27
                        156.10;
                        156.34;
34-1-17                 156.35;
                        156.38;
                        156.39;
                        156.45
34-11-1                 32.16
Ch. 34-18               155.01;
                        156.02
34-18-1                 155.01;
                        156.02
34-18-9.1(1)            156.02
                        156.10;
                        156.34;
34-18-22                156.35;
                        156.38;
                        156.39;
                        156.45
34-18-22.1              156.34
34-18-22.2              156.34
34-18-22.3              156.37
                        156.10;
                        156.34;
34-18-24                156.35;
                        156.38;
                        156.39;
                        156.45
                        113.05 -
                        113.07;
Ch. 34-20G              113.11;
                        113.16;
                        132.02;
                        160.03
34-20G-1                113.02;
                        160.02
34-31-4                 32.01
34-37-5                 94.02
34-37-13                94.02
34-37-16.1              94.02
34-38-23                150.56 -
                        150.59
                        150.56 -
34-38-38                150.59;
                        150.62
34A-1-1                 91.15
34A-1-18                91.19
                        34.21;
itle 35                 110.23;
                        110.24
35-1-5.3                132.01
35-1-9.1                70.08
Ch. 35-4                110.22
35-4-2                  110.03
35-4-2(4)               110.03
35-4-2(13)              110.03
35-4-2(16)              110.03
35-4-79                 112.03
35-4-81                 112.01
35-4-103                110.03
36-16-16                110.03
Ch. 36-25               110.03
36-25-16                150.03
36-25-17                110.03
40-2-5                  90.001
42-7A-41                110.03
43-16-2                 151.095
43-18-3                 151.097
43-18-4                 151.097
Ch. 43-41B              92.28
43-41B-18               92.28
49-7A-2                 151.094
49-7A-14                151.087;
                        151.095
49-34-15                52.07;
                        53.07
49-34-19                52.07
49-34-20                133.09
49-34A-42               52.05
59-3-4                  33.17;
                        33.18
Ch. 60-2                33.02 -
                        33.04
60-2-7                  33.17
60-2-8                  33.18
60-4-2                  33.02 -
                        33.04
60-4-4                  33.02 -
                        33.04
60-4-5                  33.02 -
                        33.04
60-4-9                  33.02 -
                        33.04
                        
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code 2023 Code
A-1-1      11.01
A-1-2      11.01
A-2-1      11.03
A-2-2      11.03
A-2-3      11.03
A-3-1      159.030
A-3-2      159.030
A-4-1      11.02
A-4-2      11.02
A-4-3      11.02
-1-1       11.03
-1-2       11.03
-2-1       30.02
-2-2       30.02
-2-3       30.02
-3-1       30.02
-3-2       30.02
-3-3       30.02
-3-4       30.04
-4-1       31.02
-4-2       31.01
-4-3       31.03
-4-4       31.04
-4-5       31.07
-4-6       31.05
-4-7       31.08
-4-8       31.08
-4-9       31.11
-4-10      31.09
-4-11      31.10
-4-12      31.06
-4-13      31.12
-4-14      31.13
-4-15      31.13
-4-16      31.17
-4-17      31.14
-4-18      31.15
-4-19      31.16
-4-20      31.18
-4-21      31.19
-4-22      31.20
-5-1       33.01
-5-2       33.02
-5-3       33.03
-5-4       33.04
C-1-1      32.01
C-1-2      32.01
C-2-1      32.02
C-2-2      32.02
C-2-3      32.02
C-2-4      32.02
C-2-5      32.02
C-2-6      32.02
C-2-7      32.03
C-3-1      50.01
C-3-2      50.02
C-3-3      50.03
C-3-4      50.04
C-3-5      50.05
C-3-6      50.06
D-1-1      32.15
D-1-2      32.16
D-1-3      32.17
D-2-1      32.30
D-2-2      32.31
D-2-3      32.32
F-1-1      34.02
F-1-2      34.01
F-1-3      34.03
F-1-4      34.04
F-1-5      34.05
F-1-6      34.06
F-1-7      34.07
F-1-8      34.99
F-1-10     34.08
F-1-11     34.08
F-2-1      34.21
F-2-2      34.20
F-2-3      34.22
F-2-4      34.23
F-2-5      34.24
F-2-6      34.25
F-2-7      34.99
F-3-1      34.40
F-3-2      34.41
F-3-3      34.42
H-1-1      52.01
H-1-2      52.02
H-1-3      52.03
H-1-4      52.04
H-1-5      52.05
H-1-6      52.06
H-1-7      52.07
H-1-8      52.09
H-1-9      52.08;
           52.10
H-2-1      53.01
H-2-2      53.02
H-2-3      53.03;
           53.04
H-2-5      53.07
H-2-6      53.05
H-2-7      53.20
H-2-8      53.21
H-2-9      53.22
H-2-10     53.23
H-2-11     53.24
H-2-12     53.08
H-2-13     53.25
H-2-14     53.26
H-2-15     53.09
H-2-16     53.06
H-3-1      54.01
H-3-2      54.02
H-3-3      54.03;
           54.04
H-3-4      54.05
H-3-5      54.06
H-3-6      54.07
H-3-7      54.12
H-3-8      54.08
H-3-9      54.09
H-3-10     54.10;
           54.11
H-3-11     54.13
H-3-12     54.14
H-3-13     54.15
H-3-14     54.30
H-3-15     54.30
H-3-16     54.31
H-3-17     54.32
H-3-18     54.33
H-3-19     54.34
H-3-20     54.34
H-3-21     54.36
H-3-22     54.35
H-3-23     54.50
H-3-24     54.51
H-3-25     54.52
H-3-26     54.37
H-3-27     54.53
H-3-28     54.54
H-3-29     54.55
H-3-30     54.99
H-3-31     54.99
H-4-1      50.20
H-4-2      50.21
H-4-3      50.22
H-4-4      50.23
H-4-5      50.24
H-4-6      50.26
H-4-6.1    50.25
H-4-7      50.27
H-4-8      50.28
H-4-9      50.29
H-4-10     50.30
H-5-1      51.001
H-5-2      51.015
H-5-3      51.016
H-5-4      51.017
H-5-5      51.030
H-5-6      51.045
H-5-8      51.046
H-5-9      51.047
H-5-10.1   51.060
H-5-10.2   51.061
H-5-10.3   51.062
H-5-10.4   51.063
H-5-10.5   51.064
H-5-10.6   51.065
H-5-10.10  51.068
H-5-10.11  51.066
H-5-11     51.067
H-6-1      50.45
H-6-2      50.46
H-6-3      50.47
H-6-4      50.48
H-6-5      50.49
H-6-6      50.50
H-6-7      50.51
H-6-8      50.52
H-6-9      50.53
H-6-10     50.54
H-6-11     50.55
H-6-12     50.56
H-6-13     50.57
J-1-1      115.01;
           115.02
J-1-2      115.03
J-1-3      115.04
J-1-4      115.05
J-1-5      115.06
J-1-6      115.07
J-1-7      115.08
J-1-8      115.09;
           115.10
J-1-9      115.11;
           115.12
J-3        TSO, Table I
K-1-1      151.031
K-1-2      151.030
K-1-3      151.032
K-1-4      151.033
K-1-5      151.034
K-1-6      151.036
K-1-7      151.037
K-1-8      151.035
K-2-1      151.065
K-2-2      151.066
K-2-3      151.068
K-2-4      151.067
K-2-5      151.069
K-2-6      151.070
K-3-1      151.015
K-3-2      151.016
K-3-3      151.017
K-3-4      151.018;
           151.999
K-3-5      151.019
K-3-6      151.001
K-3-7      151.002
K-3-8      151.999
K-4-1      151.050
K-4-2      151.051
K-4-3      151.052
K-5-1      151.086
K-5-2      151.085
K-5-3      151.087
K-5-4      151.088
K-5-5      151.089
K-5-6      151.090
K-5-7      151.094
K-5-8      151.095
K-5-9      151.091
K-5-10     151.092
K-5-11     151.099
K-5-12     151.105
K-5-13     151.096
K-5-14     151.104
K-5-15     151.098
K-5-16     151.100
K-5-17     151.101
K-5-18     151.103
K-5-19     151.103
K-5-20     151.103
K-5-21     151.106
K-5-22     151.106
K-5-23     151.102
K-5-24     151.107
K-5-25     151.108
K-5-26     151.109
K-5-27     151.093
K-5-28     151.097
K-5-29     151.110
K-5-30     151.111
K-5-31     151.112;
           151.113
K-5-32     151.114
K-5-33     151.115
K-6-1      34.55
K-6-2      34.56
K-6-3      34.57
L-1-1      93.01
L-1-2      93.02
L-1-3      93.03
L-1-4      93.21
L-1-5      93.22
L-1-6      93.23
L-1-7      93.40
L-1-8      93.26
L-1-9      93.42
L-1-10     93.43
L-1-11     93.44
L-1-12     93.24
L-1-13     93.25
L-1-14     93.45
L-1-15     93.20
L-1-16     93.41
L-1-17     93.46
L-1-18     93.04
L-1-19     93.99
L-1-20     93.05
L-2-1      152.01
L-2-2      152.02
L-2-3      152.03
L-2-4      152.04
L-2-5      152.05
L-2-6      152.06
L-2-7      152.06
L-2-8      152.08
L-2-9      152.09
L-2-10     152.10
L-2-11     152.11
L-2-12     152.07
L-2-13     152.12
L-2-14     152.13
L-2-15     152.14
L-2-16     152.15
L-2-17     152.16
L-2-18     152.17
L-2-19     152.18
L-3-1      92.01
L-3-1-1    92.02
L-3-2      92.15
L-3-3      92.16
L-3-4      92.21
L-3-5      92.22
L-3-6      92.23
L-3-7      92.24
L-3-8      92.25
L-3-9      92.26
L-3-10     92.27
L-3-11     92.28
L-3-12     92.17
L-3-13     92.18
L-3-14     92.19
L-3-15     92.20
L-3-16     92.29
L-3-17     92.99
L-3-101    150.35
L-3-102    150.36
L-3-103    150.37
L-3-104    150.38;
           150.99
L-3-105    150.41
L-3-106    150.39
L-3-107    150.40
L-3-108    150.99
L-3-110    150.42
L-4-1      91.15
L-4-2      91.19
L-4-3      91.18
L-4-4      91.18
L-4-5      91.16
L-4-6      91.17
L-4-7      91.99
L-5-1      91.30
L-5-2      91.31
L-5-3      91.32
L-5-4      91.99
L-6-1      91.01
L-6-2      91.02
L-6-3      91.03
L-6-4      91.99
L-7-1      150.20
L-7-2      150.21
L-7-3      150.22
L-7-4      150.99
L-8-1      90.001
L-8-2      90.002
L-8-3      90.003
           90.004;
L-8-4      90.072;
           90.999
L-8-5      90.005
L-8-6      90.006
L-8-7      90.006
L-8-8      90.035
L-8-9      90.036
L-8-10     90.037
L-8-11     90.020
L-8-12     90.021
L-8-13     90.070;
           90.071
L-8-14     90.999
L-9-1      90.050
L-9-2      90.051
L-9-3      90.052
L-9-4      90.053;
           90.999
L-9-5      90.054
L-9-6      90.055
M-1-1      130.02
M-1-2      130.01
M-1-3      130.03
M-1-4      130.04
M-2-1      133.02
M-2-2      133.03
M-2-3      133.04
M-2-4      133.08
M-2-5      133.06
M-2-6      133.07
M-2-7      133.09
M-2-8      133.01
M-2-9      133.05
M-2-10     133.99
M-3-1      131.02
M-3-2      131.01
M-3-3      131.07
M-3-4      131.03
M-3-5      131.04
M-3-6      131.05
M-3-7      131.06
M-3-8      131.99
M-4-1      112.01
M-4-2      112.03
M-4-3      112.02
M-4-4      132.01
M-4-4.1    132.02
M-4-5      132.03
M-4-6      132.07
M-4-7      132.06
M-4-8      132.05
M-4-9      132.04
M-4-10     112.99;
           132.99
M-5-1      134.03
M-5-2      134.02
M-5-3      134.01
M-5-4      134.99
N-1-1      70.02
N-1-2      70.01
N-2-1      70.04
N-2-2      70.06
N-2-3      70.07;
           70.99
N-2-4      70.03
N-2-5      71.02
N-2-6      71.01
N-2-7      70.05
N-2-8      70.09
N-2-9      70.10
N-2-10     70.08
N-2-11     70.99;
           71.99
N-3-1      71.03
N-3-2      71.04;
           Ch. 73, Schd. I
N-3-3      71.05;
           Ch. 73, Schd. II
N-3-4      71.06;
           Ch. 73, Schd. III
N-3-4      71.99;
           Ch. 73, Schd. I; Ch. 73, Schd. II; Ch. 73, Schd. III
N-4-1      72.03
N-4-2      72.04
N-4-3      72.07
N-4-4      Ch. 74, Schd. I
N-4-5      72.08
N-4-5.1    72.99;
           Ch. 74, Schd. I
N-4-6      72.01
N-4-7      72.05;
           72.06; Ch. 74, Schd. II
N-4-8      72.99;
           Ch. 74, Schd. II
N-4-8.1    72.02
N-4-10     72.99
N-5-1      70.13
N-5-2      70.13
N-5-3      70.13
N-5-4      70.99
N-6-1      70.11
N-6-2      70.12
P-1-1      150.01
P-1-2      150.01
P-2-1      150.02
P-2-2      150.02
P-3-1      150.03
P-3-2      150.03
P-4-1      94.01;
           150.05
P-4-2      150.05
P-4-3.1    114.02
P-4-3.2    114.03
P-4-3.3    114.04
P-4-3.4    94.03
P-4-3.5    114.05
P-4-3.6    94.02
P-4-3.7    94.99;
           114.99
P-4-4.1    94.04
P-4-4.2    94.99
P-5-1      150.55
P-5-2      150.56
P-5-3      150.57
P-5-4      150.58
P-5-5      150.59
P-5-6      150.60
P-5-7      150.61
P-5-8      150.62
P-5-9      150.99
P-6-1      150.04
P-6-2      150.04
Q-1-101    159.001
Q-1-102    159.002
Q-1-103    159.003;
           159.004
Q-1-104    159.005
Q-1-105    159.006
Q-1-106    159.008
Q-1-107    159.009
Q-1-108    159.010
Q-1-109    159.013
Q-1-110    159.014
Q-1-111    159.015
Q-1-113    159.011;
           159.033
Q-1-114    159.007
Q-1-115    159.999
Q-1-201    159.033
Q-1-202    159.033
Q-1-203    159.033
Q-1-204    159.045
Q-1-205    159.045
Q-1-206    159.045
Q-1-207    159.045
Q-1-208    159.045
Q-1-209    159.045
Q-1-210    159.045
Q-1-211    159.045
Q-1-301    159.046
Q-1-302    159.046
Q-1-303    159.046
Q-1-304    159.046
Q-1-305    159.046
Q-1-306    159.046
Q-1-307    159.046
Q-1-401    159.047
Q-1-402    159.047
Q-1-403    159.047
Q-1-404    159.047
Q-1-501    159.048
Q-1-502    159.048
Q-1-503    159.048
Q-1-504    159.048
Q-1-600    159.049
Q-1-601    159.050
Q-1-701    159.016
Q-1-702    159.017
Q-2-101    159.065
Q-2-102    159.066
Q-2-103    159.067
Q-2-104    159.068
Q-2-105    159.069
Q-2-106    159.070
Q-2-107    159.071
Q-2-108    159.071
Q-2-109    159.071
Q-2-110    159.071
Q-2-112    159.072
Q-2-113    159.073
Q-2-114    159.074
Q-2-115    159.075
Q-2-116    159.076
Q-2-117    159.077
Q-2-118    159.078
Q-2-119    159.079
Q-2-120    159.080
Q-2-121    159.081
Q-2-122    159.082
Q-2-131    159.083
Q-2-132    159.083
Q-2-133    159.083
Q-2-134    159.083
Q-2-135    159.083
Q-2-136    159.083
Q-3-101    159.095
Q-3-102    159.096
Q-3-103    159.097
Q-3-104    159.098
Q-3-105    159.099
Q-3-106    159.100
Q-3-107    159.101
Q-4-101    159.136
Q-4-102    159.135
Q-4-103    159.137
Q-4-104    159.138
Q-4-105    159.139
Q-4-106    159.140
Q-5-101    159.155
Q-5-102    159.156
Q-5-103    159.157
Q-5-104    159.158
Q-5-105    159.159
Q-5-106    159.160
Q-5-107    159.161
Q-5-108    159.162
Q-5-109    159.163
Q-5-201    159.176
Q-5-202    159.175
Q-5-203    159.177
Q-5-204    159.178
Q-5-205    159.179
Q-5-206    159.180
Q-5-301    159.196
Q-5-302    159.195
Q-5-303    159.197
Q-5-304    159.198
Q-5-305    159.199
Q-5-306    159.200
Q-5-401    159.216
Q-5-402    159.215
Q-5-403    159.217
Q-5-404    159.218
Q-5-405    159.219
Q-5-406    159.220
Q-5-501    159.236
Q-5-502    159.235
Q-5-503    159.237
Q-5-504    159.238
Q-5-505    159.239
Q-5-506    159.240
Q-5-507    159.241
Q-5-601    159.256
Q-5-602    159.255
Q-5-603    159.257
Q-5-604    159.258
Q-5-605    159.259
Q-5-606    159.260
Q-5-701    159.276
Q-5-702    159.275
Q-5-703    159.277
Q-5-704    159.278
Q-5-705    159.279
Q-5-706    159.280
Q-5-801    159.296
Q-5-802    159.295
Q-5-803    159.297
Q-5-804    159.298
Q-5-805    159.299
Q-5-806    159.300
Q-5-901    159.316
Q-5-902    159.315
Q-5-903    159.317
Q-5-904    159.318
Q-5-905    159.319
Q-5-906    159.320
Q-5-907    159.321
Q-6-101    159.336
Q-6-102    159.335
Q-6-103    159.337
Q-6-104    159.338
Q-6-105    159.339
Q-6-106    159.340
Q-6-107    159.341
Q-6-108    159.342
Q-6-201    159.356
Q-6-202    159.355
Q-6-203    159.357
Q-6-204    159.358
Q-6-205    159.359
Q-6-206    159.360
Q-6-207    159.361
Q-6-208    159.362
Q-7-101    159.376
Q-7-102    159.375
Q-7-103    159.377
Q-7-104    159.378
Q-7-105    159.379
Q-7-106    159.380
Q-7-107    159.381
Q-7-108    159.382
Q-7-109    159.383
Q-7-201    159.396
Q-7-202    159.395
Q-7-203    159.397
Q-7-204    159.398
Q-7-205    159.399
Q-7-206    159.400
Q-7-207    159.401
Q-7-208    159.402
Q-8-101    159.416
Q-8-102    159.415
Q-8-103    159.417
Q-9-101    154.20
Q-9-201    154.01
Q-9-202    154.02
Q-9-203    154.03
Q-9-204    154.22
Q-9-205    154.23
Q-9-206    154.24
Q-9-207    154.25
Q-9-208    154.06
Q-9-209    154.07
Q-9-210    154.08
Q-9-211    154.21
Q-9-212    154.09
Q-9-213    154.04
Q-9-214    154.05
Q-9-215    154.99
Q-9-216    154.26
Q-9-217    154.27
Q-10-101   159.431
Q-10-102   159.430
Q-10-103   159.432
Q-10-104   159.433
Q-10-105   159.434
Q-10-106   159.435
Q-10-107   159.436
Q-10-108   159.437
Q-10-109   159.438
Q-11-101   159.465
Q-11-102   159.466
Q-11-103   159.031
Q-11-104   159.032
Q-11-105   159.012
           159.115 -
Q-11-106   159.122;
           159.999
Q-11-108   159.018
Q-12-101   158.001
Q-12-102   158.002
Q-12-103   158.003
Q-12-104   158.004
Q-12-106   158.005
Q-12-201   158.006
Q-12-202   158.020
Q-12-203   158.999
Q-12-204   158.021
Q-12-205   158.022
Q-12-206   158.023
Q-12-207   158.024
Q-12-208   158.025
Q-12-209   158.026
Q-12-210   158.027
Q-12-211   158.028
Q-12-212   158.029
Q-12-301   158.040
Q-12-302   158.041
Q-12-303   158.042
Q-12-304   158.043
Q-12-305   158.044
Q-12-401   158.055
Q-12-402   158.056
Q-12-403   158.057
Q-12-404   158.058
Q-12-405   158.059
Q-12-406   158.060
Q-12-407   158.061
Q-12-408   158.062
Q-12-409   158.063
Q-12-501   158.075
Q-12-502   158.076
Q-12-503   158.077
Q-12-504   158.078
Q-12-505   158.079
Q-12-506   158.080
Q-12-507   158.081
Q-12-508   158.082
Q-12-509   158.083
Q-12-510   158.084
Q-12-511   158.085
Q-12-601   158.100
Q-12-602   158.101
Q-12-603   158.102
Q-12-604   158.103
Q-12-701   158.115
Q-12-702   158.116
Q-12-801   158.130
Q-12-802   158.131
Q-12-803   158.132
Q-12-804   158.133
Q-12-805   158.134
Q-12-806   158.135
Q-12-807   158.136
Q-12-808   158.137
Q-12-809   158.138
Q-12-810   158.139
Q-12-811   158.140
Q-12-812   158.141
Q-12-813   158.142
Q-12-814   158.143
Q-12-901   158.155
Q-12-902   158.156
Q-12-903   158.157
Q-12-1001  158.170
Q-12-1002  158.171
Q-12-1003  158.172
Q-12-1004  158.173
Q-12-1005  158.174
Q-12-1006  158.175
Q-12-1007  158.176
Q-12-1008  158.177
Q-12-1009  158.178
Q-12-1010  158.179
Q-12-1011  158.180
Q-12-1012  158.181
Q-12-1013  158.182
Q-12-1101  158.195
Q-12-1102  158.196
Q-12-1103  158.197
Q-12-1104  158.198
Q-12-1105  158.199
Q-12-1106  158.200
Q-12-1107  158.201
Q-12-1108  158.202
Q-12-1109  158.203
Q-12-1110  158.204
Q-12-1201  158.215
Q-12-1202  158.216
Q-13-101   157.01
Q-13-102   157.02
Q-13-103   157.03
Q-13-104   157.04
Q-13-105   157.05
Q-13-107   157.06
Q-13-108   157.07
Q-13-109   157.08
Q-13-110   157.09
Q-13-111   157.10
Q-13-112   157.11
Q-13-113   157.12
Q-13-114   157.15
Q-13-115   157.13
Q-13-116   157.14
Q-13-117   157.14
Q-13-118   157.14
Q-13-119   157.14
Q-13-120   157.14
Q-13-121   157.14
Q-13-123   157.30
Q-13-124   157.31
Q-13-126   157.45
Q-13-127   157.46
Q-13-128   157.47
Q-13-129   157.48
Q-13-130   157.49
Q-13-131   157.60
Q-13-132   157.61
Q-13-133   157.62
Q-13-134   157.63
Q-13-135   157.64
Q-13-136   157.65
Q-13-137   157.66
Q-13-138   157.67
Q-14-100   155.01
Q-14-101   155.02
Q-14-101   159.450
Q-14-102   155.25
Q-14-103   155.26
Q-14-104   155.03
Q-14-105   155.04
Q-14-106   155.05
Q-14-201   155.06
Q-14-202   155.28
Q-14-203   155.27
Q-14-204   155.29
Q-14-205   155.30
Q-14-206   155.48
Q-14-207   155.49
Q-14-208   155.32
Q-14-209   155.38
Q-14-210   155.33
Q-14-211   155.31
Q-14-301   155.43
Q-14-302   155.10
Q-14-303   155.44
Q-14-304   155.45
Q-14-305   155.34
Q-14-306   155.46
Q-14-307   155.47
Q-14-308   155.39
Q-14-309   155.40
Q-14-310   155.41
Q-14-311   155.37
Q-14-312   155.35
Q-14-313   155.36
Q-14-314   155.42
Q-14-401   155.07
Q-14-402   155.08
Q-14-403   155.09
Q-14-404   155.11
Q-14-405   155.99
Q-14-406   155.12
Q-15-100   156.01
Q-15-101   156.02
Q-15-200   156.03
Q-15-201   156.25
Q-15-202   156.26
Q-15-203   156.27
Q-15-300   156.04
Q-15-301   156.05
Q-15-302   156.07
Q-15-303   156.08
Q-15-304   156.06
Q-15-401   156.32
Q-15-403   156.29
Q-15-404   156.30
Q-15-405   156.31
Q-15-500   156.44
Q-15-501   156.28
Q-15-600   156.42
Q-15-601   156.43
Q-15-602   156.45
Q-15-603   156.37
Q-15-700   156.33
Q-15-701   156.34
Q-15-702   156.34
Q-15-702.1 156.34
Q-15-703   156.35
Q-15-705   156.38
Q-15-706   156.39
Q-15-707   156.40
Q-15-708   156.36
Q-15-709   156.41
Q-15-900   156.09
Q-15-901   156.10
Q-15-1000  156.11
Q-15-1100  156.99
Q-15-1200  156.12
Q-16-101   160.01
Q-16-102   160.02
Q-16-103   160.03
S-1-1      110.01
S-1-1.1    110.02
S-1-2      110.03;
           110.04
S-1-3      30.05
S-1-4      110.20
           110.21 -
S-1-5      110.25;
           110.27 -
           110.31
S-1-6      110.26
S-1-7      110.05
S-1-8      110.06
S-1-9      110.32
S-1-10     110.45 -
           110.50
S-1-10.1   110.99
S-2-1      111.01
S-2-1.1    111.02
S-2-2      111.15
S-2-3      111.16
S-2-4      111.17
S-2-5      111.18
S-2-6      111.19
S-2-7      111.20
S-2-8      111.21
S-2-9      111.22
S-2-10     111.23
S-2-11     111.24
S-2-12     111.25
S-2-13     111.26
S-2-14     111.27
S-2-15     111.28
S-2-16     111.40 -
           111.43
S-2-17     111.04
S-2-18     111.03
S-3-1      153.01
S-3-1.1    153.02
S-3-2      153.03
S-3-3      153.04
S-3-4      153.05
S-3-5      153.06
S-3-6      153.07
S-4-1      153.20
S-4-1.1    153.21
S-4-2      153.22
S-5-1      113.01
S-5-2      113.02
S-5-3      113.05
S-5-4      113.06
S-5-5      113.07
S-5-6      113.15
S-5-7      113.04
S-5-8      113.08
S-5-9      113.10
S-5-10     113.11
S-5-11     113.12
S-5-12     113.13
S-5-13     113.09
S-5-14     113.03
S-5-15     113.14
S-5-16     113.99
S-5-17     113.16
-1-1       10.14
-1-2       10.99
-1-3       10.14
-1-4       10.14
U-1-1      33.16
U-1-2      33.15
U-1-3      33.17
U-1-4      33.18
U-1-5      33.19
U-1-6      33.20
U-2-1      33.35
U-2-2      33.36
U-2-3      33.37
U-2-4      33.38
W-1        TSO, Table II
Z-1        TSO, Table II
           
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
680      8-6-1990    11.03;
                     159.030
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         150.01
95       - -         11.02
336      - -         154.02
530      - -         32.31;
                     54.33
538      2-7-1983    54.33
671      - -         154.20
                     51.030;
                     51.045;
                     51.064;
                     54.10;
809      - -         54.11;
                     159.135;
                     159.196;
                     159.257;
                     159.360
811      - -         159.135;
                     159.216
812      - -         51.030
                     53.03;
814      - -         53.04;
                     54.03;
                     54.04
815      - -         159.135;
                     159.196
816      - -         159.163
817      - -         151.032
818      - -         159.031
819      - -         71.06;
                     72.99; Ch. 73, Schd. III
820      - -         70.06
821      - -         51.015
822      - -         159.135;
                     159.336
823      - -         159.076
                     34.01 -
                     34.08;
824      - -         34.20 -
                     34.25;
                     34.99
826      - -         34.03;
                     34.08
828      - -         159.101
830      - -         72.99
832      - -         159.176;
                     159.216
                     157.04;
                     157.07;
                     157.14;
833      - -         157.30;
                     157.61;
                     157.64 -
                     157.67;
                     159.135
834      - -         51.064
838      - -         159.135;
                     159.216
                     110.20 -
839      - -         110.25;
                     110.27 -
                     110.30
840      - -         159.135;
                     159.216
                     92.02;
                     94.01;
                     110.21 -
                     110.25;
                     110.27 -
845      - -         110.30;
                     150.01;
                     150.02;
                     150.04;
                     150.05;
                     154.26
847      - -         158.077;
                     159.081
848      - -         151.019;
                     159.180
850      - -         51.045;
                     159.416
851      - -         51.015
854      - -         158.199;
                     158.202
855      - -         51.030
856      - -         51.064
859      - -         159.032
860      - -         159.216;
                     159.431
862      - -         159.135;
                     159.176
863      - -         159.135;
                     159.196
865      - -         159.360
                     159.003;
867      - -         159.004;
                     159.321
870      - -         51.015
871      - -         72.99;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. I
872      - -         51.030
875      - -         159.356;
                     159.376
876      - -         51.030
877      - -         71.06;
                     72.99; Ch. 73, Schd. III
878      - -         51.015
881      - -         131.04
                     51.015 -
883      - -         51.017;
                     51.030;
                     51.045
884      - -         159.359;
                     159.360
                     159.135;
                     159.176;
887      - -         159.196;
                     159.336;
                     159.356
                     72.01;
888      - -         72.05;
                     72.06;
                     72.99; Ch. 74, Schd. I; 156.30
                     110.21 -
889      - -         110.25;
                     110.27 -
                     110.31
892      - -         159.336
                     110.02;
                     110.03;
                     110.21 -
893      - -         110.25;
                     110.27 -
                     110.31;
                     112.01
894      - -         32.16
                     90.004;
                     90.035;
                     90.036;
                     90.050 -
                     90.055;
895      - -         90.070 -
                     90.072;
                     90.999;
                     110.21 -
                     110.25;
                     110.27 -
                     110.31
896B     - -         159.316
897      - -         159.296
                     50.50;
                     50.56;
899      - -         50.57;
                     51.030;
                     51.064;
                     94.02
901      - -         159.216
902      - -         159.356
903      - -         159.336
904      - -         159.296
905      - -         159.376
906      - -         159.196
907      - -         159.256
908      - -         159.275
909      - -         159.396
910      - -         159.216
                     110.21 -
911      - -         110.25;
                     110.27 -
                     110.31
                     159.007;
                     159.011;
912      - -         159.033;
                     159.045 -
                     159.050;
                     159.999
914      - -         52.08 -
                     52.10
                     51.030;
917      - -         51.045;
                     51.063;
                     51.064
918      - -         50.30
921      - -         51.045
923      - -         51.045;
                     51.064
925      - -         34.56;
                     34.57
926      - -         159.135;
                     159.356
927      - -         159.376
928      - -         153.21
932      - -         154.26;
                     154.27
933      - -         150.01
934      - -         112.01
935      - -         50.50;
                     51.016
                     150.35 -
936      - -         150.42;
                     150.99
937      - -         72.08;
                     72.99
939      - -         54.10;
                     54.11
941      - -         159.257
                     50.48 -
942      - -         50.50;
                     50.56;
                     50.57
943      - -         94.02;
                     114.03
                     94.02;
944      - -         94.03;
                     114.03;
                     114.05
945      - -         159.296;
                     159.356
947      - -         159.236
950      - -         51.064
952      - -         159.357
953      - -         159.083
954      - -         51.064
955      - -         152.06 -
                     152.18
957      - -         152.05
                     51.030;
960      - -         51.045;
                     51.064
                     159.339;
961      - -         159.357;
                     159.360
962      - -         159.081;
                     159.339
963      - -         159.017
964      - -         159.296;
                     159.356
967      - -         159.003;
                     159.004
                     92.99;
                     150.35 -
968      - -         150.38;
                     150.40;
                     150.41;
                     150.99
972      - -         51.064
973      - -         31.03
974      - -         153.22
                     159.002 -
976      - -         159.004;
                     159.450
979      - -         151.002;
                     151.999
980      - -         51.030
982      - -         159.135;
                     159.296
984      - -         159.135;
                     159.356
                     34.21;
                     110.02;
                     110.04;
                     110.21 -
                     110.25;
                     110.27 -
986      - -         110.31;
                     155.01 -
                     155.12;
                     155.25 -
                     155.49;
                     155.99;
                     156.45
988      - -         51.045
                     158.062;
989      - -         159.115 -
                     159.122;
                     159.999
991      - -         115.01 -
                     115.10
992      - -         159.196;
                     159.296
999      - -         159.135;
                     159.196
1001     - -         159.336;
                     159.356
1002     - -         159.356;
                     159.376
                     51.030;
1004     - -         51.045;
                     51.064
1005     - -         159.135;
                     159.431
1007     - -         150.38;
                     150.99
                     94.02 -
1008     - -         94.04;
                     94.99
                     50.25;
1009     - -         50.28 -
                     50.30
1010     - -         159.356
                     92.02;
1012     - -         150.01 -
                     150.05
1013     - -         159.196;
                     159.275
1014     - -         159.296;
                     159.356
                     51.016;
1017     - -         51.030;
                     51.045;
                     51.064
1019     - -         159.336;
                     159.356
1020     - -         112.01
1022     - -         159.216;
                     159.275
1023     - -         159.276;
                     159.296
                     110.21 -
1024     - -         110.25;
                     110.27 -
                     110.31
1025     - -         71.04;
                     72.99; Ch. 73, Schd. I
                     51.030;
1026     - -         51.045;
                     51.064
                     72.05;
1030     - -         72.06;
                     72.99; Ch. 74, Schd. I; 156.30
1031     - -         159.336;
                     159.356
                     159.339;
1032     - -         159.357;
                     159.360
1033     - -         159.136;
                     159.296
                     159.339;
1036     - -         159.357;
                     159.360
                     94.02;
1037     - -         114.02 -
                     114.04
                     51.030;
1038     - -         51.045;
                     51.064
1042     - -         71.04;
                     72.99; Ch. 73, Schd. I
1043     - -         159.075
1045     - -         34.40 -
                     34.42
                     51.030;
1047     - -         51.045;
                     51.064
1050     - -         156.12
1052     - -         159.196;
                     159.431
                     159.357;
1053     - -         159.359;
                     159.379;
                     159.380
1054     - -         132.02
1056     - -         159.431
1057     - -         11.02
1061     - -         159.296
1063     10-3-2022   159.431
1066     12-19-2022  51.030, 51,045, 51.064
- -      - -         31.03
                     154.02,
- -      - -         154.20,
                     154.23,
                     154.28
                    
 
 
