GARRETSON, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains
:Legislation current through Ord. 713, passed 2-3-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.15   Wards and voting precincts
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the Garretson Code,
for which designation “code of ordinances”, or “codified ordinances” may be
substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The CITY of Garretson, South Dakota.
   CITY COUNCIL. The common council of the municipality concerned or affected.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in COMPUTATIONS which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   MINNEHAHA COUNTY. The county of Minnehaha, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Garretson, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county or counties in which the municipality is
located, or his or her heirs or successors.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be published shall be equivalent to the required PUBLICATION.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   RESOLUTION. Any determination that, decision, or direction of the governing
body of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STATE. The State of South Dakota.
   STREET. STREET includes AVENUE.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code, as now or later amended, or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCES TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.15 WARDS AND VOTING PRECINCTS.
   (A)   The city shall be divided into three wards and shall be designated
respectively as Wards One, Two, and Three. The wards shall be described by
stating the certain street or avenue designations or other landmarks that
divide and border the wards. Any reference to street or avenue in divisions (B)
through (D) below means an imaginary line running down the approximate middle
of each street or avenue. The wards of the city are as set forth below and on
the map. Any discrepancies shall be resolved by reference to the map rather
than the physical descriptions set forth herein. The City Council may combine
or separate said wards to establish voting precincts for the purpose of any
particular election by as provided by SDCL § 9-13-16.
   (B)   The First Ward shall include all of that part of the city east of
Center Avenue, located between Second Street and Dows Street. It shall also
include all of that part of the city east of Canyon Avenue, located between
Second and Fifth Street. It shall also include all of that part of the city
east of Split Rock Road and north of Fifth Street.
   (C)   The Second Ward shall include all of that part of the city north of
Dows Street, located between Railroad Avenue and Highway 11. It shall also
include all of that part of the city north of Essex Street, located between
Center Avenue and Railroad Avenue. It shall also include all of that part of
the city north of Second Street and west of Canyon Avenue up to Fifth Street.
It shall also include all of that part of the city west of Split Rock and north
of Fifth Street. It shall also include all of that part of the city west of
Highway 11 and north of Essex Street.
   (D)   The Third Ward shall include all of that part of the city south of
Dows Street located between Four Hundred Eighty-Sixth Avenue and Highway 11. It
shall also include of that part of the city west of Highway 11 and south of
Essex Street. It shall also include all of that part of the city south of Essex
Street, located between Railroad Avenue and Center Avenue.
( Ord. 6 03-2011, pa ssed 8-8- 2 011; O rd. 678, pa ssed 1- 1 0-2022)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this section, or in any ordinance of the city, an act is
prohibited, or is made or declared to be unlawful, an offense, or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in such revision or ordinance, the doing of any act is
required, or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this section, or any such ordinance, shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $100, provided that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty
provided for the same or a similar offense under the laws of the state. Each
day, or fractional part thereof, any violation of this section or of any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In all actions for the violation of an ordinance, the first process
shall be a summons; provided, however that a warrant for the arrest of the
offender may issue in the first instance upon the affidavit of any person that
any such ordinance has been violated, and that the person making complaint has
reasonable grounds to believe that the party charged is guilty thereof; and any
person arrested upon any such warrant shall, without any unnecessary delay, be
taken before the proper officer to be tried for the alleged offense. Any person
upon whom any fine or penalty shall be imposed may, upon order of the court
before whom the conviction is had, be committed to the county jail, city
prison, house of correction, or other place provided by the city for the
incarceration of offenders, until such fine, penalty, and costs shall be fully
paid; provided that no such imprisonment shall exceed three months for any one
offense.
   (C)   The City Council shall have power to provide, by ordinance, that every
person so committed shall be required to work for the corporation at such labor
as his or her strength will permit, not exceeding ten hours each working day,
and for such work, the person so employed to be allowed, exclusive of his or
her board, $1.25 for each day’s work, on account of such fine and costs.
   (D)   The Police Justice shall have exclusive jurisdiction in all cases
arising under the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) above, or any ordinance
passed in pursuance thereof.
   (E)   Any constable or sheriff in the county may serve any process or make
any arrest authorized to be made by any city officer.
   (F)    If the City Treasurer shall fail to register any warrant in the order
of its presentation, where presented thereof as herein provided, or shall fail
to notify the holder thereof, he or she shall be liable on his or her official
bond to each and every person the payment of whose warrant is thereby delayed,
in the sum of $50 to be recovered in a civil action.
(Ord. 14, passed 8-11-1892; Ord. 25, passed 9-16-1893; Ord. 55, passed 5-22-
1901)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDLC § 9-19-3
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
Mayor and Council
   
30.01   General powers and duties
Meetings
   
30.15   Regular meetings
   
30.16   Meeting procedure
   
30.17   Reserved
   
30.18   Special meetings
MAYOR AND COUNCIL
§ 30.01 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Chain of command. The President of the Council, in the absence of the
Mayor, shall be the presiding officer of the Council and during the absence of
the Mayor, or in the event of his or her temporary disability, the President
shall be Acting Mayor and possess all powers of the Mayor. In the absence or
disability of the Mayor and President of the Council, the Vice President shall
perform the duties of the Mayor and President of the Common Council.
   (B)   City Council President and Vice President. At the first regular
meeting after the annual election in each year and after qualification of the
newly elected Aldermen, the Common Council shall elect from among its own
members a President and Vice President who shall hold their respective offices
for the municipal year.
   (C)   Duties and powers of the Council. The Mayor and City Council shall
have the duties and powers as prescribed by the laws of the State of South
Dakota, the ordinances of the City of Garretson, and any other motion or
resolution made by the City Council.
   (D)   Office of the Mayor. The Mayor shall be elected for a term of two
years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (E)   Mayor and City Council. The City of Garretson shall be governed by a
mayor and six aldermen, these people shall be called the governing body or City
Council.
(Ord. 31, passed 7-8-1895; Ord. 413A, passed - -; Ord. 713, passed 2-3-2025)
MEETINGS
§ 30.15 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The City Council shall meet regularly on the first Monday of each month.
(Ord. 624, passed 1-11-2016; Ord. 664, passed 5-3-2021; Ord. 689, passed 7-10-
2023)
§ 30.16 MEETING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Agenda. The Mayor or any two City Council members may submit to the
City Finance Officer any business that they feel should be deliberated upon by
the City Council. The submission will be considered valid if it is submitted to
the City Finance Officer in writing one week prior to the Council meeting. Upon
a valid submission, the City Finance Officer shall add the requested business
to the agenda of the next City Council meeting.
   (B)   Adoption of Robert's Rules of Order. Meetings shall be governed by
Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised 12th Edition and these Council rules of
procedure. In case of conflict, the Council ordinances or resolutions shall
prevail.
(Res. 2019-10, passed 5-6-2019; Ord. 713, passed 2-3-2025)
§ 30.17 RESERVED.
§ 30.18 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   A special meeting of the City Council of the City of Garretson, South
Dakota, may be called by the Acting Mayor or two City Council members and must
be presented in writing to the Finance Officer. Notice must state the purpose
of the meeting and include the date, time, and location of the proposed
meeting. Notice to the public shall be served by the Finance Officer and any
business at such special meeting shall have the same force and effect as if
transacted at such regular meeting of the City Council.
(Ord. 700, passed 10-7-2024)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   General organization; appointments
   
31.02   Special elections
Personnel System
   
31.15   Code of conduct
   
31.16   Conflict of interest policy
   
31.17   Employee handbook adopted by reference
   
31.18   Reserved
   
31.19   Reserved
   
31.20   Active duty; leave and employment rights
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 GENERAL ORGANIZATION; APPOINTMENTS.
   At the first regular meeting of the City Council after the annual city
election in each year, the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the City Council,
shall appoint the following city officers, who shall hold their offices for one
year, except as herein otherwise provided, and until their successors are
appointed and qualified, to-wit:
   (A)   Council officers; appointments: Personnel; Planning/Zoning/Streets;
Finance and Professional; Utilities; and Parks/Recreation/Tourism;
   (B)   Other appointments: Attorney; Official Depository; Official Newspaper;
and SMGA Representative; and
   (C)   Employees other than appointive: In addition to appointive officers,
the city shall hire such other personnel, professional and otherwise, required
and necessary for municipal purposes. These personnel shall include but not be
limited to: the Finance Officer; Police Chief; Street Superintendent; and Water
and Sewer Superintendent. Compensation of such employees shall be fixed by
resolution at any time, regardless of the time when any city employee may have
been hired. Any city employee may only be removed from his or her position by
the majority vote of the Council members.
(Ord. 635, passed 2-5-2018; Ord. 695, passed 4-8-2024)
§ 31.02 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   All special elections hereafter called for any purpose whatsoever within and
for the city shall be conducted, and the ballots therefore shall be prepared,
in the same manner as prescribed by the statute in the case of regular annual
city elections.
(Ord. 50, passed 7-8-1879)
PERSONNEL SYSTEM
§ 31.15 CODE OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COUNSEL. An attorney at law licensed to practice in the state.
      PUBLIC CENSURE. An official public condemnation made by resolution at a
Common Council meeting denouncing an elected official’s conduct as a violation
of this section and the reasons therefor.
      PUBLIC REPRIMAND. A public declaration made by resolution at a Common
Council meeting announcing that an elected official’s conduct was improper and
describing the impropriety under this section.
   (B)   In order to maintain excellence in government and to facilitate the
efficient provision of services to the public, the city adopts this code of
conduct for elected officials. This code of conduct is in addition to all other
policies of the city.
      (1)   The city expects each elected official to demonstrate the highest
standards of conduct, personal integrity, and honesty in all of his or her
activities, in order to inspire public confidence and trust in elected
officials.
      (2)   The city expects each elected official to undertake his or her
duties in a fair and impartial manner, refraining at all times from
discrimination or the dispensation of special privileges. Therefore, members of
the City Council, city boards, committees, and commissions shall conduct
themselves in accordance with the following ethical standards:
         (a)   Act in the public interest. Recognizing that stewardship of the
public interest must be their primary concern, members will work for the common
good of the people of the city, and not for any private or personal interest,
and they will assure fair and equal treatment of all persons, claims, and
transactions coming before them;
         (b)   Comply with both the spirit and the letter of the law and city
policy. Members shall comply with the laws of the nation, the state, and the
city in the performance of their public duties;
         (c)   Conduct of members. The professional and personal conduct of
members while exercising their office must be above reproach and avoid even the
appearance of impropriety. Members shall refrain from abusive conduct, personal
charges, or verbal attacks upon the character or motives of other members of
the Council, boards, committees, commissions, staff, or public;
         (d)   Respect for process. Members shall perform their duties in
accordance with the processes and rules of order established by the City
Council;
         (e)   Conduct at public meetings. Members shall prepare themselves for
public issues, listen courteously and attentively to all public discussions
before the body, and focus on the business at hand;
         (f)   Decisions based on merit. Members shall base their decisions on
the merits and substance of the matter at hand, rather than on unrelated
considerations. When making adjudicative decisions (those decisions where the
member is called upon to determine and apply facts peculiar to an individual
case), members shall maintain an open mind until the conclusion of the hearing
on the matter, and shall base their decisions on the facts presented at the
hearing and the law; and
         (g)   Communication. For adjudicative matters pending before the body,
members shall refrain from receiving information outside of an open public
meeting or the agenda materials, except on advice of the City Attorney. Members
shall publicly disclose substantive information that is relevant to a matter
under consideration by the body which they may have received from sources
outside of the public decision-making process.
      (3)   The city strives to maintain a workplace that facilitates the
growth and performance of its employees. To that end, each elected official is
charged with the responsibility to insure that the workplace is free from
hostility or harassment in any form, and that the workplace is conducive to the
provision of services in an efficient and effective manner.
         (a)   Treat all staff as professionals. Clear, honest communication
that respects the abilities, experience, and dignity of each individual is
expected. Poor behavior towards staff is not acceptable.
         (b)   Do not disrupt city staff from their jobs. Elected and appointed
officials should not disrupt city staff while they are in meetings, on the
phone, or engrossed in performing their job functions in order to have their
individual needs met. Do not attend city staff meetings unless requested by
staff; even if the elected or appointed official does not say anything, his or
her presence implies support, shows partiality, may intimidate staff, and
hampers staffs’ ability to do their job objectively.
         (c)   Never publicly criticize an individual employee. Elected and
appointed officials should never express concerns about the performance of a
city employee in public, on social media, to the employee directly, or to the
employee’s manager. Comments about staff performance should only be made to the
City Manager, Finance Officer, or Mayor through private correspondence or
conversation. Appointed officials should make their comments regarding staff to
the City Manager, Finance Officer, or the Mayor.
         (d)   Do not set involved in administrative functions. Elected and
appointed officials acting in their individual capacity must not attempt to
influence city staff on the making of appointments, awarding of contracts,
selecting of consultants, processing of development applications, or granting
of city licenses and permits.
         (e)   Do not solicit political support from staff. Elected and
appointed officials should not solicit any type of political support (financial
contributions, display of posters or lawn signs, name on support list, and the
like) from city staff. City staff may, as private citizens with constitutional
rights, support political candidates, but all such activities must be done away
from the workplace.
         (f)   No attorney-client relationship. Members shall not seek to
establish an attorney-client relationship with the City Attorney, including his
or her staff and attorneys contracted to work on behalf of the city. The City
Attorney represents the city and not individual members. Members who consult
with the City Attorney cannot enjoy or establish an attorney-client
relationship with the Attorney.
      (4)   The provision of governmental service requires elected officials to
interact with the public. Given the unique relationship between the government
and its citizens, each elected official is expected to treat members of the
public with the respect and courtesy due to citizens from public servants.
However, no elected official shall be expected to endure personal hostility or
abuse, regardless of the source.
         (a)   Be welcoming to speakers and treat them with care and
gentleness. While questions of clarification may be asked, the official’s
primary role during public testimony is to listen.
         (b)   Be fair and equitable in allocating public hearing time to
individual speakers. The Chair will determine and announce limits on speakers
at the start of the public hearing process.
         (c)    Practice active listening. It is disconcerting to speakers to
have members not look at them when they are speaking. It is fine to look down
at documents or to make notes, but reading for a long period of time or gazing
around the room gives the appearance of disinterest. Members shall try to be
conscious of facial expressions, and avoid those that could be interpreted as
“smirking”, disbelief, anger, or boredom.
         (d)   Maintain an open mind. Members of the public deserve an
opportunity to influence the thinking of elected and appointed officials.
         (e)   Ask for clarification, but avoid debate and argument with the
public. Only the Chair, not individual members, can interrupt a speaker during
a presentation. However, a member can ask the Chair for a point of order if the
speaker is off the topic or exhibiting behavior or language the member finds
disturbing.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (c)(1)(a)1. through (C)(1)(a)3. below,
any time a violation of this section is alleged, the affected elected official
(s) shall be entitled to notice of the alleged violation(s) and a public
hearing on the merits of the allegation.
      (1)   Any complaint of violation of this subchapter shall be made in
writing to the office of the City Attorney. The City Attorney, or his or her
designee, shall examine the complaint and shall also review any signed written
submissions by the person(s) or entity(ies) that are directly involved.
Pursuant to SDCL § 1-25-2(1), the complaint may be heard in executive session,
and upon completion of the review, the City Attorney’s office shall submit, in
executive session, an unbiased, fact-based investigative report to the Common
Council. All laws pertaining to executive session shall apply, and the Common
Council shall not take any action regarding any alleged violation of this
section in executive session.
         (a)   At least ten days prior to the scheduled executive session, any
affected elected official(s) shall be notified, in writing, of the complaint
and the scheduled date of the executive session discussion, and shall be
provided copies of the materials reviewed by the office of the City Attorney,
along with the report produced by the City Attorney, or his or her designee.
            1.   This provision of notice, as described in division (C)(1)(a)
above, shall be required, except in cases in which the affected elected
officials has been accused of criminal wrong doing, or in cases in which notice
to the affected elected official(s) would jeopardize an on-going criminal
investigation by any local, state, or federal law enforcement agency.
            2.   The City Attorney shall make the determination as to whether
the notice exception applies, as described in divisions (C)(1)(a) and (C)(1)
(a)1. above, and shall document the file as to the reason(s) therefor.
            3.   In cases of alleged criminal wrongdoing or on-going criminal
investigation, the subject complaint of violation of this subchapter shall be
suspended until such time as the City Attorney deems the criminal allegation
and/or criminal investigation has been resolved, either by prosecution, or a
determination that no criminal charge(s) are warranted against the affected
elected official(s).
         (b)   In the event the notice exception above does not apply, the
matter shall proceed, and any affected elected officials shall have an
opportunity to respond and be heard during the scheduled executive session.
         (c)   The Common Council will utilize the executive session to:
            1.   Become fully informed;
            2.   Discuss if there appears to be a violation of this code;
            3.   Seek resolution without further action;
            4.   If necessary, discuss scheduling the matter for a public
hearing for final determination regarding whether a violation occurred; and
            5.   If necessary, discuss what sanction, if any, may be most
appropriate.
      (2)   (a)   Any elected official(s) affected by a complaint of violation
of this code may be represented by counsel of his or her choosing at the
scheduled executive session.
         (b)   Counsel present under this section is allowed to attend only
that portion of the scheduled executive session where the complaint at issue
under this section is discussed.
      (3)   Any elected official(s) affected by a complaint of violation of
this section may at any time during the process, at his or her option, choose
to have the matter heard at a public hearing.
         (a)   Election of a public hearing must be made in writing to the City
Attorney.
         (b)   The public hearing shall take place at the next regularly
scheduled or special Common Council meeting after written notice has been
received; provided, however, that written notice is received at least ten days
prior to the next regularly scheduled or special Common Council meeting.
      (4)   Official action by a concurrence of two-thirds of the elected
Aldermen shall be required for a determination that a violation of this section
has occurred, and likewise, a concurrence of two-thirds of the elected Aldermen
shall be required in order to impose sanction.
   (D)   (1)   Neither an alleged nor confirmed violation of this code of
conduct by itself provides a basis for challenging the validity of any final
action, enactment, ordinance, resolution, decision, determination, or
recommendation of the Common Council.
      (2)   Under SDCL § 9-8-5, the Common Council is the judge of the
qualification of its own members; any sanction available under state law,
including, but not limited to, public reprimand and public censure, shall be
available to the Common Council in judging its members.
(Res. 2019-09, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 31.16 CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   (A)   The city seeks to prevent and avoid any conflicts of interest in the
conduct of its business operations and to avoid the appearance of such
conflicts to the public it serves. Each elected and appointed official has the
duty to place the interests of the citizens of the city foremost in any
dealings on behalf of the city and has a continuing responsibility to comply
with this section. This section applies to any elected or appointed official
who serves on the Council, who serves on any board, committee, or commission of
the city, or who is appointed to serve the city in any capacity pursuant to
SDCL Chapter 9-14 (collectively referred to as “official”).
   (B)   Conflicts of interest may exist when an official, or an immediate
family member of such official, has a personal or financial interest clearly
separate from that of the general public on a matter before the official. An
immediate family member, for purposes of this policy, is any person related to
an official within the first degree of consanguinity and includes: a spouse;
parent; child; grandparent; grandchild; or an individual claimed by the
official or his or her spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
Such conflicts of interest may be financial or personal, direct, or indirect,
and the existence of a conflict of interest is dependent upon the unique facts
or a particular situation.
   (C)   It is the policy of the city to follow state law regarding conflicts
of interest, and this policy is not intended to be more strict than the
applicable requirements of state law. Generally, state law provides that an
official may not have a personal financial interest in any city transaction for
the purchase of labor, services, materials, supplies, or real or personal
property that belongs to the city. An exception to this general rule may apply
if the transaction is reasonable and just, if the contract is made without
fraud or deceit, and if the official discloses the conflict and recuses himself
or herself from participation in the decision for which there is a conflict of
interest. These exceptions include the following:
      (1)   A contract for $5,000 or less;
      (2)   A contract awarded by competitive bidding procedures if more than
one competitive bid is submitted, or if only one competitive bid is submitted,
and the procedures in SDCL § 6-1-2.1 have been followed;
      (3)   A contract for professional services;
      (4)   A contract awarded off of the state contract list at the
established price or less;
      (5)   A contract that does not require competitive bidding when there is
no other source of supply or services and when the total or any such contracts
does not exceed $50,000 for a public improvement, or $25,000 for a contract for
supplies or services; or
      (6)   A contract with an entity for which competitive bidding is not
required unless the majority of the governing body are members or stockholders
who collectively have a controlling interest, or any governing board official
is an officer, manager, or such entity.
   (D)   No department director who is authorized in his or her official
capacity to sell or lease any property or to make any contract may be
personally interested, directly or indirectly, in any such sale, lease, or
contract.
   (E)   If an official who is a member of the Council, or a board, committee,
or commission has a disqualifying interest in a matter before the body on which
the official serves, he or she shall disclose the conflict to the body prior to
its consideration of the matter. Once this disclosure is made, the official
shall not formally participate in the official discussion, any executive
session, or any vote on the matter. If the official has a conflict or interest
in the matter and chooses to participate in the discussion, the official should
leave the dais and speak on the item from the audience as a member of the
public.
      (1)   If it is alleged that an official has a disqualifying conflict of
interest in a matter before the Council, or a board, committee, or commission
on which the official serves, and if the official does not voluntarily refrain
from participating in the matter, then the official may be disqualified from
officially participating in consideration or the matter upon a two-thirds’ vote
of the Council, board, committee, or commission on which the official serves.
The Council, board, committee, or commission voting to disqualify such official
must make a specific finding of the disqualifying conflict of interest for
which it has excluded the official from participating in the matter under
consideration. An official disqualified in this manner may not participate in
the official discussion, any executive session, or any vote on the matter.
      (2)   If any official desires assistance to determine if that official,
or another official, has a disqualifying conflict of interest, the official may
request an advisory opinion from the City Attorney’s office. Such opinion shall
be made available to all members of the Council, or the board, committee, or
commission, about which the opinion is provided, but shall not be available for
public inspection, unless a majority of the members or the Council, or the
board, committee, or commission, to which the opinion is provided votes to make
such opinion public.
   (F)   Upon adoption of this policy, the City Finance Officer shall
distribute this conflict of interest policy and all pertinent state law
provisions to all city officials. The policy and state law provisions shall be
timely provided to all newly elected or appointed officials.
(Res. 2019-08, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 31.17 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The employee handbook for the city and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-12-2001; Ord. passed 9- -2021)
§ 31.18 RESERVED.
§ 31.19 RESERVED.
§ 31.20 ACTIVE DUTY; LEAVE AND EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS.
   (A)   An employee who enlists or is called into active duty for the military
service of the United States or who, in time of national or state emergency,
voluntarily or involuntarily enlists for active duty, shall be granted leave
without pay for the time necessary to permit completion of the military
service. If the employee’s first 15 days of military pay is less than the 15-
day amount the employee normally would have received had he or she not been
activated, the city would pay the employee the difference between normal pay
and military pay. The employee will provide a statement of wages from the
military to substantiate the difference in pay.
   (B)   In order to have re-employment rights, a person leaving active duty in
the military service of the United States must apply to the city for re-
employment within 30 days after his or her separation from active duty, or
within 30 days after his or her release from hospitalization continuing after
such separation for not more than one year. The employee shall be entitled to
return to the city service at his or her former position, or at a level
equivalent to the position held at departure. The employee’s years of service
will continue while activated, unless such employee chooses not to return to
the city after military service. In such case, the date of termination shall be
considered the thirtieth day after activation. This applies to inductees and
enlistees, as well as reservists and National Guard members performing full
active duty, as opposed to initial duty for training, or active or inactive
duty for training, or active or inactive duty training, or other active duty
where different re-employment rights are defined by federal statue.
(Res. 03-02-02, passed 2-10-2003)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Reserved
   
32.02   Reserved
   
32.03   Reserved
   
32.04   Reserved
   
32.05   Park Advisory Committee
   
32.06   Reserved
   
32.07   Reserved
   
32.08   Game, Fish, and Parks Department
   
32.09   Youth Advisory Committee
§ 32.01 RESERVED.
§ 32.02 RESERVED.
§ 32.03 RESERVED.
§ 32.04 RESERVED.
§ 32.05 PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A) Park Advisory Committee. There is hereby created and established a
committee to be entitled and designated as the Park Advisory Committee.
   (B)   Funding.
      (1)   Funding, if deemed necessary, for the Committee shall be budgeted
by the City Council.
      (2)   Funding for expenditures shall be determined by the City Council.
   (C)   Duties, responsibilities, and authority of the Committee. The
Committee shall be specifically responsible but not limited to the following:
The Park Advisory Committee is established for the purposes of investigation
and providing recommendations to the City Council as to matters pertaining to
the care, regulation, and management of the city’s public parks and operating a
system of public recreation.
   (D)   Organization of the Committee.
      (1)   Membership. The Committee shall consist of up to six voting
members: two shall be Council members (Parks and Recreation Committee
representatives), and four shall be from the public. The Committee will also
contain a maximum of two non-voting advisory members from the city staff.
      (2)   Terms of the public members. Committee members are to be appointed
by the Mayor and City Council members at the regular meeting in May each year.
      (3)   Terms of the Council members. The Council member shall be appointed
by the Mayor and serve on an annual basis.
      (4)   Elected officers. The Park Advisory Committee shall, each May in
odd-numbered years, elect from its members a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson.
The term of office shall be two years.
      (5)   Secretary. The Chairperson of the Committee shall appoint the
Secretary of said Committee. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to send all
notices for the meeting of said Committee; keep and preserve the minutes; have
custody and keep all documents and papers filed with said Committee; provide
copies of all documents to the Finance Officer; and perform such other duties
as may be prescribed by said Committee, with approval of the City Council.
      (6)   Reporting to the City Council. The Council members serving on the
Committee will advise and consult with the City Council and city officials as
to the work and recommendations of said Committee.
      (7)   Meeting. The Committee shall meet once each month (if there is
business to conduct), and may also meet on the call of the Chairperson or
Mayor. Notice of all meetings shall be posted 24 hours prior to the meeting.
      (8)   Quorum. Four voting members will constitute a quorum.
(Res. 2016-12, passed 8-2-2016; Res. 2024-16, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 32.06 RESERVED.
§ 32.07 RESERVED.
§ 32.08 GAME, FISH, AND PARKS DEPARTMENT.
   The state’s Game, Fish, and Parks Department acknowledge said responsibility
for the Splitrock Creek dam’s care and maintenance, and thereby restore said
dam and commit to the continued
maintenance of the same.
(Res. passed 12-13-1993)
§ 32.09 YOUTH ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   The city hereby creates an Advisory Committee to provide input on policies,
codes, plans, and practices and provide a platform for youth engagement in
policy making decisions and local government (the Advisory Committee). The
Advisory Committee shall be comprised of two students, defined as being of high
school age, who live, attend school, or are engaged in the city. The two
students shall be nominated by the Garretson High School administration,
subject to the approval of an appointment by the City Council. The inaugural
members of the Advisory Committee shall be nominated no later than August 30,
2024, and appointed no later than September 6, 2024, to serve a one-year term
to expire on May 15, 2025. This same process shall be followed on an annual
basis thereafter, save and except the nomination date shall change to May 15 of
each year. The City Council, in its sole discretion, has authority to modify or
dissolve the Advisory Committee at any time.
(Res. 2024-20, passed 7-1-2024)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
Section
   
33.01   Adoption of Minnehaha County Pre-Disaster Hazard Militation Plan
   
33.02   Adoption of Minnehaha County Local Emergency Operation Plan
   
33.03   Area included in Minnehaha County Rural Ambulance District
§ 33.01 ADOPTION OF MINNEHAHA COUNTY PRE-DISASTER HAZARD MILITATION PLAN.
   (A)   The city has adopted the Minnehaha County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
to be evaluated and updated each year.
   (B)   The City Council hereby adopts, supports, and will facilitate the
Lincoln County-Minnehaha County Pre-Disaster Hazard Mitigation Plan 2017 Update
implementation.
(Res. 04-10, passed 5-10-2004; Res. 2018-04, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 33.02 ADOPTION OF MINNEHAHA COUNTY LOCAL EMERGENCY OPERATION PLAN.
   The city has adopted the Minnehaha County Local Emergency Operations Plan,
to be evaluated and updated each year.
(Res. 04-09, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 33.03 AREA INCLUDED IN MINNEHAHA COUNTY RURAL AMBULANCE DISTRICT.
   The City Council consents to be included within the proposed Minnehaha
County Rural Ambulance District, and supports the creation of said district.
(Res. 2007-09, passed 9-18-2007)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Other Charges, Fees, and Fines
   
34.15   Maintenance fee, public roads and lighting
   
34.16   Non-sufficient fund check fees
OTHER CHARGES, FEES, AND FINES
§ 34.15 MAINTENANCE FEE, PUBLIC ROADS AND LIGHTING.
   (A)   To direct the Finance Officer to add such special street maintenance
fee to the general assessment together with the regular assessment and certify
for the assessment to the County Auditor, to be collected as municipal taxes
for general purposes. The amount of the special maintenance fee that shall be
levied upon all lots fronting and abutting the streets that are maintained by
the city shall be at a rate of $0.50 per front foot, not to exceed 300 front
feet per property.
   (B)   All revenue received from the levy, as described in division (A)
above, shall be placed in a special revenue fund named “Street, Sidewalk,
Lighting Maintenance Fund” for said improvements.
(Res. 2019-03, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 34.16 NON-SUFFICIENT FUND CHECK FEES.
   Pursuant to the ordinance providing that the City Council shall establish
the rates, charges, and classification of water, sewer, and natural gas service
for the city; said rates, charges, and classification of users for water,
sewer, and natural gas service provided by the city, to be kept on file at the
office of the City Finance Officer, shall be as follows:
   (A)   There shall be a $1 bank charge reimbursement fee for all non-
sufficient fund checks; and
   (B)   There shall be a $20 handling fee for all non-sufficient fund checks.
(Res. 98-10-07, passed 10-19-1998)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Sales and service tax; purpose and interpretation
   
35.02   Sales and service tax; effective date
   
35.03   Use tax
   
35.04   Collection
   
35.05   Special tax rate; lodging, alcoholic beverages, ticketed amusements
   
35.06   Discretionary formula; certain new structures and additions
Redevelopment Neighborhoods
   
35.20   Purpose
   
35.21   Classification
   
35.22   Procedure
   
35.23   Standards
   
35.24   Assessed valuations formula
   
35.25   Designated areas
   
35.26   Discretionary formula
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 SALES AND SERVICE TAX; PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional
needed revenue for the city by imposing a municipal retail sales and use tax
pursuant to the powers granted to the municipality by SDCL § 10-52-1, entitled
Uniform Municipal Non-Ad Valorem Tax Law, and acts amendatory thereunto.
   (B)   Interpretation. It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter
and the taxes levied hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed
in the same manner as all sections of the state’s Retail Occupational Sales and
Service Act, SDCL § 10-45, and acts amendatory thereto, and the state’s Use
Tax, SDCL § 10-46, and acts amendatory thereto, and that this shall be
considered a similar tax exempt for the same rate thereof to that tax.
(Ord. 558, passed 8-11-2003; Res. 03-08-05, passed 8-11-2003) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.02 SALES AND SERVICE TAX; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Effective date and enactment of tax. From and after January 1, 2006, there
is hereby imposed as a municipal retail occupational sales and service tax upon
the privilege of engaging in business tax, measured by 2% on the gross receipts
of all persons engaged in business within the jurisdiction of the municipality
who are subject to the state’s Retail Occupational Sales and Service Tax, SDCL
§ 10-45, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 558, passed 8-11-2003; Res. 03-08-05, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 571, passed
10-17-2005) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.03 USE TAX.
   There is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of use, storage, and
consumption within the jurisdiction of the municipality of tangible personal or
services purchased from and after January 1, 2004, at the same rate as the
municipal sales and service tax upon all transactions or use, storage, and
consumption, which are subject to the state’s Tax Act, SDCL § 10-46, and acts
amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 558, passed 8-11-2003) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.04 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL § 10-52 and
acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the state’s Department of
Revenue and Regulation in accordance with the same rule and regulations
applicable to the state’s Sales Tax and under such additional rules and
regulations as the Secretary of Revenue and Regulation of the state shall
lawfully prescribe.
(Ord. 558, passed 8-11-2003) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.05 SPECIAL TAX RATE; LODGING, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, TICKETED AMUSEMENTS.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed, from and after January 1, 2008, an additional
1% rate of tax upon the gross receipts of all leases orientals of hotel, motel,
campsites, or other lodging accommodations within the municipality for periods
of less than 28 consecutive days; sales of alcoholic beverages, as defined in
SDCL § 35-1-1, establishments where the public is invited to eat, dine, or
purchase and carry out prepared food for immediate consumption, and ticket
sales or admissions to places of amusement, athletic, and cultural events,
notwithstanding the rate of tax established in §§
35.02 and
35.03.
   (B)   Any revenues received under this section in excess of the amount
received under §§
35.02 and
35.03 may be used only for the following purposes: land acquisition;
architectural fees; construction costs; payments for civic center, auditorium,
or athletic facility buildings, including the maintenance, staffing and
operations of such facilities; and the promotion and advertising of the
municipality and its facilities, attractions, and activities.
(Ord. 580, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 35.06 DISCRETIONARY FORMULA; CERTAIN NEW STRUCTURES AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   The following properties shall be, and hereby are, specifically
classified for the purpose of taxation pursuant to SDCL § 10-6-137:
      (1)   Any new industrial or commercial structure, or any addition,
renovation, or reconstruction to an existing structure, located within a
designated urban renewal area, as defined in SDCL § 11-8-4, if the new
structure, addition, renovation, or reconstruction has a full and true value of
$30,000 or more;
      (2)   Any new industrial structure, including a power generation
facility, or an addition to an existing structure, if the new structure or
addition has a full and true value of $30,000 or more;
      (3)   Any new nonresidential agricultural structure, or any addition to
an existing structure, if the new structure or addition has a full and true
value of $10,000 or more;
      (4)   Any new commercial structure, or any addition to an existing
structure, except a commercial residential structure as described in SDCL § 10-
6-137(5), if the new structure or addition has a full and true value of $30,000
or more;
      (5)   Any new commercial residential structure, or addition to an
existing structure, containing four or more units, if the new structure or
addition has a full and true value of $30,000 or more;
      (6)   Any new affordable housing structure containing four or more units
with a monthly rental rate of the units at or below the annually calculated
rent for the state’s 60% area median income being used by the state Housing
Development Authority, for a minimum of ten years following the date of first
occupancy, if the structure has a full and true value of $30,000 or more;
      (7)   Any new residential structure, or addition to or renovation of an
existing structure, located within a redevelopment neighborhood established
pursuant to SDCL § 10-6-141, if the new structure, addition, or renovation has
a full and true value of $5,000 or more. The structure shall be located in an
area defined and designated as a redevelopment neighborhood, based on
conditions provided in SDCL §§ 11-7-2 or 11-7-3; or
      (8)   Any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential agricultural property
which increases more than $10,000 in full and true value as a result of
reconstruction or renovation of the structure.
   (B)   Any structure classified pursuant to this section shall, following
construction, initially be valued for taxation purposes in the usual manner,
and that value shall be referred to in this section as the “pre-adjustment
value”.
   (C)   The assessed value to be used for tax purposes of any structure
classified pursuant to this section shall, following construction, be
calculated as follows:
 
Tax year                              Percentage of pre-adjustment value
First tax year following construction  Land + 25% of the pre-adjustment value
Second tax year following construction Land + 25% of the pre-adjustment value
Third tax year following construction  Land + 50% of the pre-adjustment value
Fourth tax year following construction Land + 75% of the pre-adjustment value
Fifth tax year following construction  Land + 75% of the pre-adjustment value
 
   (D)   The Board of County Commissioners may, if requested by the owner of
any of the property described in division (A) above, not apply the formula
described in division (C) above, in which case the full assessment shall be
made without application of the formula. In waiving this formula for the
structure of one owner, the Board of County Commissioners is not prohibited
from applying the formula for subsequent new structures by that owner.
   (E)   For purpose of this section, the assessed valuation during any of the
five years may not be less than the assessed valuation of the property year
preceding the first year of the tax years following construction.
   (F)   Any structure that is partially constructed on the assessment date may
be valued for tax purposes pursuant to this section and the valuation may not
be less than the assessed valuation of the property in the year preceding the
beginning of construction.
   (G)   Following the five-year period under this section, the property shall
be assessed at the same percentage as is all other property for tax purposes.
(Res. 2020-20, passed 7-6-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 10-6-137(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)
REDEVELOPMENT NEIGHBORHOODS
§ 35.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of subchapter is to set standards for property to qualify as a
redevelopment neighborhood, pursuant to SDCL § 10-6-142 and SDCL §§ 11-8-1 et
seq.
(Ord. 658, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 35.21 CLASSIFICATION.
   Any new residential structure, or any addition to or renovation of an
existing structure, located within a redevelopment neighborhood established
pursuant to SDCL § 10-6-141 and SDCL §§ 11-8-1, et seq., which new structures,
additions, or renovations have an increased true and full value of a minimum of
$30,000 or more, added to real property are specifically classified for the
purpose of taxation. All real property qualifying under this subchapter not
completed before August 1, 2020, as determined by the Director of Equalization,
shall be classified in the manner prescribed in this subchapter.
(Ord. 658, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 35.22 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Prior to request for approval from the governing body, the City
Council shall have reviewed such application and shall have submitted their
independent recommendation in favor of or against such classification along
with the application.
   (B)   Property owned by the city is exempt from the procedure in division
(A) above.
   (C)   The city’s governing body may initiate the establishment of
redevelopment neighborhoods without application by an owner.
(Ord. 658, passed 7-6-2020; Ord. 713, passed 2-3-2025)
§ 35.23 STANDARDS.
   The redevelopment neighborhood must be based on conditions as follows.
   (A)   A SLUM AREA means an area in which there is a predominance of
buildings or improvements which by reason of dilapidation, deterioration, age
or obsolescence, inadequate provision for ventilation, light, sanitation, or
open spaces, high density of population and overcrowding, or any combination of
such factors, are conducive to ill health, transmission of disease, infant
mortality, juvenile delinquency and crime, injuriously affect the entire area,
and are detrimental to the public health, safety, morals, or welfare.
   (B)   A BLIGHTED AREA means an area where, by reason of the predominance of
defective or inadequate street layout, faulty lot layout in relation to size,
adequacy, accessibility, usefulness, or other insanitary or unsafe conditions,
deterioration of site improvements, diversity of ownership, tax delinquency,
defective or unusual conditions of title, improper subdivision or obsolete
platting, or any combination of such reasons, development of such BLIGHTED AREA
(which may include some incidental buildings or improvements) into
predominantly housing uses is being prevented.
   (C)   The redevelopment area must be zoned as a CB, Cental Business
District, area.
(Ord. 658, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 35.24 ASSESSED VALUATIONS FORMULA.
   The City Council shall have the responsibility to adopt formulas for
determining the assessed values of all property qualifying as a redevelopment
neighborhood pursuant to SDCL §§ 10-6-137 and 10-6-141.
(Ord. 658, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 35.25 DESIGNATED AREA.
   The following legally described area is hereby designated a redevelopment
neighborhood:
   (A)   W73' Lots 20 and 21 Block 12 Royces fourth addition to the city; and
   (B)   E67' Lots 20 and 21 Block 12 Royces fourth addition to city.
(Ord. 658, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 35.26 DISCRETIONARY FORMULA.
   The discretionary formula for reduced taxation of any new residential
structure within a redevelopment neighborhood, or any addition to or renovation
of any existing structure shall be as follows:
   (A)   During the first tax year after construction, the taxable value shall
be 20% of the assessed valuation for tax purposes;
   (B)   During the second tax year after construction, the taxable value shall
be 40% of the assessed valuation tax purposes;
   (C)   During the third tax year after construction, the taxable value shall
be 60% of the assessed valuation for tax purposes.
   (D)   During the fourth tax year after construction, the taxable value shall
be 80% of the assessed valuation for tax purposes.
   (E)   During the fifth tax year after construction, the taxable value shall
be 100% of the assessed valuation for tax purposes.
(Ord. 658, passed 7-6-2020)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
35.01 through
35.04 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $200, or imprisoned in the municipal
jail for 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, all such
collection remedies authorized by SDCL § 10-45, and acts amendatory thereto,
and SDCL § 10-46 and acts amendatory thereto, are hereby authorized for the
collection of these excise taxes by the Department of Revenue and Regulation.
(Ord. 558, passed 8-11-2003)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   NATURAL GAS
      
53.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Utility tapping
   
50.02   Water line construction
   
50.03   Utilities Office; powers
   
50.04   Utility finances
   
50.05   Not required to furnish service; certain cases
   
50.06   Allowed to discontinue service
   
50.07   Unlawful to obtain service under false identification
Water Fees and Payment Procedure
   
50.20   Owner responsible for construction costs
   
50.21   Tapping permit fee
   
50.22   Service pipe construction fee
   
50.23   New water service; connection fees
   
50.24   Occasional consumption rates
   
50.25   Monthly billing procedure
   
50.26   Estimate of charges
   
50.27   Usage rates, deposits, and classifications of users
   
50.28   Payment procedure
   
50.29   Delinquent bills
   
50.30   Selling and supplying utilities; exception
   
50.31   Moving utilities
   
50.32   Clean water surcharge
   
50.33   Drinking water surcharge
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 UTILITY TAPPING.
   When a property owner wishes to tap into the city water system, the owner
shall first request, in writing, a utility tapping permit from either the City
Council or the Utility Superintendent for tapping into the city water system.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 50.02 WATER LINE CONSTRUCTION.
   All construction of the water lines shall be under the direct supervision of
the Utility Superintendent and will conform to all local and state plumbing
codes.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 50.03 UTILITIES OFFICE; POWERS.
   (A)   For purposes of convenience, the city may employ one person to hold
any of the following offices, at any given time: City Finance Officer;
Assistant to the Finance Officer; Superintendent of Public Utilities; and
Assistant(s) to the Superintendent of Utilities.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council shall have the power to extend, modify, or
rebuild any public utility under its management and control and to do anything
such City Council deems necessary for the proper and efficient operation of
such utility. Said Council may enter necessary contracts for these purposes in
accordance with state law.
      (2)   The City Council shall have the power to employ all necessary help
for the management and operation of the utility under its control and
management, prescribe duties of its employees, and fix their compensation.
      (3)   The City Council shall have the power to buy all fuel and supplies,
and where the utility is engaged in distribution, it may purchase wholesale gas
for municipal distribution.
      (4)   The City Council shall have the power to fix reasonable rates and
to adopt reasonable rules and regulations for utility service supplied by the
municipally owned public utility under its control and management within the
limits provided by the statutes of the state.
      (5)   The City Council shall have the power to enter into all necessary
working agreements with the officials or agents of the city. Such agreements
may contemplate arrangements for furnishing utility services for the city
compensation for use by the city, of buildings, equipment, and personnel under
the control of the other and transfers of surplus funds in the controls of the
City Council to the General Fund of the city.
      (6)   Nothing herein is to be construed as vesting any power or powers in
any such City Council or in the city beyond the powers now vested in municipal
corporations relative to the management and control of utilities.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 50.04 UTILITY FINANCES.
   (A)   A separate fund or a separate account shall be established in the City
Treasury for each utility. Into this fund or account shall be all receipts from
the utility, and from it shall be paid all disbursements attributable to the
utility.
   (B)   The City Council shall be governed by state law in connection with its
finances.
   (C)   The Finance Officer shall, immediately after the close of each fiscal
year, and as often additionally as may be required by the City Council, file
with the city a detailed written report of all money and monies received and
disbursed by said utility for said fiscal year in the case of an annual report,
and since the last report was given in the case of any other report required by
the City Council.
   (D)   The city shall charge a connection fee to be established by resolution
of the City Council and kept on file in the office of the City Finance Officer
for the institution of service to the consumer, when said consumer begins his
or her account with the city at the property he or she is receiving service.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 50.05 NOT REQUIRED TO FURNISH SERVICE; CERTAIN CASES.
   The city shall not be required to furnish any utility service to any person
when the applicant for such service, or the husband, wife, father, mother,
significant other, or roommate of such applicant residing in the same household
and obtaining service either directly or indirectly through the same meter, is
indebted to said city for any city-owned service, whether for service at the
same location or elsewhere, and whether indebted or demanding service
individually or as a member of a partnership; nor shall any such service be
required to be furnished for use upon any premises, the owner of which, or the
husband, wife, father, mother, significant other, or roommate of such owner is
indebted to said city for such class of service.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 50.06 ALLOWED TO DISCONTINUE SERVICE.
   Any service being furnished by said city of any of the classes mentioned is
§
50.05 hereof may be disconnected at anytime when any of the conditions
mentioned in said §
50.05 hereof exist.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 50.07 UNLAWFUL TO OBTAIN SERVICE UNDER FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain utility service from said city
under an assumed name or any name other than his or her true name.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997) Penalty, see §
50.99
WATER FEES AND PAYMENT PROCEDURE
§ 50.20 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR CONSTRUCTION COSTS.
   All costs incurred in bringing water from the water main to the water meter,
including all excavation from main to meter, and all materials necessary to
complete construction, plus restoration of parking and street to its original
condition, will be the responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 50.21 TAPPING PERMIT FEE.
   If the tapping permit is subsequently granted, the property owner will pay a
tapping permit fee, the amount of which wall be set by resolution and be kept
on file in the office of the City Finance Officer. The city’s service for such
fee shall include the tapping of the water main and inspection of the water
lines once the property has been prepared for such by the property owner. The
city’s service for such fee will also include initial set-up and maintenance of
the account books and records, and maintaining the city’s water lines to the
curb stop after construction has been completed and the contractor’s warranty
has expired. It will be the property owner’s responsibility to maintain the
water line from the meter to the curb stop.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 50.22 SERVICE PIPE CONSTRUCTION FEE.
   When the property owner wishes a service pipe laid from water main to curb
box on either side of main, he or she or they shall pay the sum of $150 for
each such tap, meter, and labor. This shall include the proper guarding,
refilling of trenches, excavation, and replacement of blacktopping.
(Ord. 303, passed 10-1-1973)
§ 50.23 NEW WATER SERVICE; CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   The fee for connection to the municipal water system shall be based on
the water meter size as follows:
 
3/4" or 1" meter $600 (no charge for meter or accessories)
1-1/2" meter     $900 (plus cost of meter and accessories)
2" meter         $1,500 (plus cost of meter and accessories)
3" meter         $3,000 (plus cost of meter and accessories)
4" meter         $5,400 (plus cost of meter and accessories)
 
   (B)   Any meter upgrades will result in an additional water connection fee
based on the difference from the rate for the current meter size to the new
larger meter size plus the costs of the new meter and accessories.
(Res. 2008-15, passed 8-11-2008; Ord. 707, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 50.24 OCCASIONAL CONSUMPTION RATES.
   The water rate for occasional consumption shall be as follows:
   (A)   The rate shall be a $20 loading fee; plus
   (B)   The rate shall be $2 per 100 gallons pumped from the city; and
   (C)   Minimum fee shall be set at $25.
(Res. 98-10-02, passed 9-21-1998)
§ 50.25 MONTHLY BILLING PROCEDURE.
   Meters shall be read and the billing for water, sewer, and natural gas shall
be handled as follows.
   (A)   All meters shall be read on or after the first day of each month, or
as soon thereafter as may be practical.
   (B)   A billing shall be sent to the consumers on or before the fifth day of
the month, or as soon thereafter as may be practical immediately following the
date the meters were read.
   (C)   Amounts shall be immediately due and payable upon receipt of the
billing by the consumer.
   (D)   The billing shall be delinquent if payment is not received by the
Utilities Receipts Depository before the close of business on or before the
twentieth day of the month, or the first following business day that the
Depository is open for business, and a penalty shall apply as set forth in §
50.29.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997; Ord. 612, passed 4-8-2013) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 ESTIMATE OF CHARGES.
   If any meter fails to register for any cause, the amount charged for water
and/or natural gas during such period shall be estimated by the City Council
and/or the Utility Superintendent, such estimate to be based on the average
amount registered during a like period.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 50.27 USAGE RATES, DEPOSITS, AND CLASSIFICATIONS OF USERS.
   (A)   The water, sewer, and natural gas meter rates shall be established by
resolution of the City Council and kept on file in the office of the City
Finance Officer.
   (B)   Classification of users as needed for billing purposes may be
established by resolution of the City Council and kept on file in the office of
the City Finance Officer.
   (C)   The City Council may require deposits for a particular class of users
which requirement may be established by resolution of the City Council and kept
on file in the office of the City Finance Officer.
   (D)   The classification of users for water, sewer services, natural gas
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Users within the city limits; or
      (2)   Users outside the city limits.
   (E)   The water usage rates shall be as follows:
      (1)   For users within the city limits:
         (a)   The basic rate shall be $33.58 per month;
         (b)   Surcharge DW #1 shall be $5.45 per month;
         (c)   Surcharge DW #2 shall be $3.95 per month; and
         (d)   The usage rate shall be $0.520 per 100 gallons of water, or
$5.20 per 1,000 gallons of water used.
      (2)   For users outside the city limits:
         (a)   The basic rate shall be $39.50 per month;
         (b)   Surcharge DW #1 shall be $5.45 per month;
         (c)   Surcharge DW #2 shall be $3.95 per month; and
         (d)   The usage rate shall be $0.700 per 100 gallons of water, or $7
per 1,000 gallons of water used.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997; Res. 2020-22, passed 7-6-2020; Res. 2023-6, passed
3-13-2023; Res. 2024-4, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 50.28 PAYMENT PROCEDURE.
   Payment of all water, sewer, and natural gas bills shall be due upon receipt
by the consumer as set forth in §
50.25(D). Payment will be applied as follows: first to the natural gas balance
and then the remaining balance shall be split 50/50 to the water and sewer
balance. Failure to pay by the consumer within the time specified shall result
in penalties and termination of service as set forth in §
50.29.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 50.29 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   Billing is due upon receipt or by the twentieth day of business of the
current month. A utility bill shall be delinquent if payment is not received by
the Utility Billing Clerk or the official city depository by the close of
business on the twentieth day of each month. If the twentieth day of the month
falls on a weekend or another day in which the city office or official city
depository is closed, said utility bill shall be considered delinquent if
payment is not received by the close of business the following day said
locations are open for business. If said utility bill is paid via ACH or online
means, the payment must be completed on the twentieth of each month. If a
utility bill is considered delinquent as herein set forth, a penalty shall
apply as adopted by resolution of the City Council which shall be on file in
the office of the City Finance Officer.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties imposed above, the City Finance Officer,
Utility Billing Clerk, and/or the Public Works Director may take the following
action with regard to delinquent utility bills:
      (1)   If payment is not received by the Utility Billing Clerk or the
official city depository for two consecutive months before the close of
business on the twenty-fifth day of the month following the initial delinquent
utility bill, or close of business on the next regular business day for the
city office or official city depository, the said utilities will be due for
disconnection the following business day.
      (2)   The city may, in addition to any payments and penalties to be paid
by the consumer or owner of the property, require that a deposit of sufficient
amount be forwarded to the city through the City Finance Office or official
city depository to assure future payment of utility bills. Any reinstatement of
services may require that both a deposit, as determined by the City Council,
and a standard connection fee or service fee will be paid prior to any
reinstatement of utility services.
      (3)   If payment of all utilities is not made by the consumer or the
owner, if such person be a different person than the consumer, then the Public
Works Director shall terminate water service to the property before noon or as
soon thereafter, but such action shall not relieve the consumer or owner of the
property of the duty to pay any delinquent amounts and penalties owing.
      (4)   If the consumer or the owner is served with a personal
disconnection notice three times within a calendar year, they will be assessed
an additional service fee on each personal notification thereafter.
      (5)   In accordance with SDCL § 34A-6-29 the city may certify delinquent
balance on past due utility bills not paid prior to September 30 plus interest,
to the County Treasurer to be collected as assessments and will be collected by
the County Treasurer in the following year as a condition precedent to the
payments of the real property tax on the lot or parcel with respect to which
the charge was made.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997; Ord. 612, passed 4-8-2013; Ord. 705, passed 11-4-
2024)
§ 50.30 SELLING AND SUPPLYING UTILITIES; EXCEPTION.
   No occupant or owner of any premises to which water and/or natural gas is
supplied is allowed to supply, or shall supply to any person or families, any
service from the city water and/or natural gas system, or permit the same to be
taken except upon special permit from the City Council. Any consumer violating
this provision will be charged the additional amount that such user or users
would be charged if the water and/or natural gas service was billed to the user
or users by the city. This amount is to be collected in the same manner and at
the same rate as other water and natural gas service.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31 MOVING UTILITIES.
   The homeowner or business owner agrees to pay the cost of relocating any
portion of utility’s facilities made to accommodate his or her needs or
required because of alterations to the property.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 50.32 CLEAN WATER SURCHARGE.
   The city hereby establishes a surcharge of $25 payable by each customer of
its system who receives or benefits from the services of the project financed
by the CW-05 loan with the borrower bond. The collection of the surcharge shall
start on April 1, 2024. The surcharge shall remain in effect until such time as
the borrower bond is paid in full, it shall be collected at the same time as
other charges of the system and establish a surcharge account to segregate the
income from other system income for bookkeeping purposes to be pledged to the
South Dakota Conservancy District. The surcharge shall be reviewed from year to
year and modified in order to provide the required 110% debt coverage.
(Res. 2024-8, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 50.33 DRINKING WATER SURCHARGE.
   The city hereby establishes a surcharge of $10 payable by each customer of
its system who receives or benefits from the services of the project financed
by the DW-04 loan with the borrower bond. The collection of the surcharge shall
start on October 1, 2024. The surcharge shall remain in effect until such time
as the borrower bond is paid in full, it shall be collected at the same time as
other charges of the system and establish a surcharge account to segregate the
income from other system income for bookkeeping purposes to be pledged to the
South Dakota Conservancy District. The surcharge shall be reviewed from year to
year and modified in order to provide the required 110% debt coverage.
(Res. 2024-9, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, or by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. In
addition, if such violations is of any provision involving a license, the City
Council may permanently revoke the license of any licensee so convicted after
notice and opportunity for healing.
(Ord. 517, passed 9-15-1997)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Use of public sewers required
   
51.03   Connection to wastewater system
   
51.04   Sanitary and building sewer connections
   
51.05   Dumping in public sewers
   
51.06   Protection from damage
   
51.07   Utility powers; Board
Sewer Fees and Payment Procedure
   
51.20   New sewer service; sewer connection fees
   
51.21   Usage rates, deposits, and classification of users
   
51.22   Payment procedure
   
51.23   Selling and supplying utilities; exception
Private Sewer Treatment Systems
   
51.35   Installation and maintenance
   
51.36   Existing system and new land requirements
   
51.37   Inspection; violations
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. Part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other places of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   PH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a PH value of seven and a hydrogen ion
concentration of ten.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration,
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN/STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater,
subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Wastewater Facilities of the city, or
his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to, or better than, the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with “waste treatment plant”, “wastewater treatment plant”, “water
pollution control plant”, or “sewage treatment plant”.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 374, passed 5-23-1983)
§ 51.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance, with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. 374, passed 5-23-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 CONNECTION TO WASTEWATER SYSTEM.
   The owner of every house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is
hereby required, at the owner’s expense, to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 30 days after notice
to do so; provided that said public sewer is within 200 feet of the property
line. If the owner fails to provide such sewer after notice to do so, the city
shall provide for the installation of such sewer and charge the cost against
the property as a special assessment.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-4-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 SANITARY AND BUILDING SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Municipal Finance Officer.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner of his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the city. The permit appliaction shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Municipal Finance Officer. A permit and
inspection fee of $[blank] for a residential or church building sewer permit,
and $[blank] for a business, commercial, school or, industrial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incidental to the installment and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer; but, the city does not and will not
assume any obligations or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection aforementioned.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this section. The size, slope, alignment, materials of
construction of all sanitary sewers including building sewers, and the methods
to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building
and plumbing code, other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the
laws and regulations of the state.
   (F)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (G)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected, directly or indirectly, to
a public sanitary sewer, unless such connection is approved by the
Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   (H)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code, other applicable
rules and regulations of the city, or the laws and regulations of the state.
All such connections shall be made gastight, watertight, and verified by proper
testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (I)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (J)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (K)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be by open trench unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. No
backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by the
Superintendent. Backfill shall be compacted to a density at least equal to that
of the adjacent subgrade.
(Ord. 374, passed 5-23-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 DUMPING IN PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any unpolluted
waters such as storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, or cooling water to any sewer, except storm water runoff from limited
areas, which storm water may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the
sanitary sewer by permission of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Storm water, other than that exempted under division (A) above, and
all other unpolluted drainage, shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designed as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any of the
following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
contaminate the sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a
public nuisance, or create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the
waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to:
ashes; cinders; sand; mud; straw; shavings; metal; glass; rags; feathers; tar;
plastics; wood; unground garbage; whole blood; paunch manure; hair and
fleshings; entrails; and paper dishes cups, or milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or waste shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established in
the regulations below if in his or her opinion, such more severe limitations
are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to
the acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors
as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150ºF (65ºC);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat,
or grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined herein;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which, in the
judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (J) below.
      (2)   When considering the above alternative, the Superintendent shall
give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the
discharger. If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent.
   (F)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means
of the captivated material and shall maintain records of the dates, and means
of disposal which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials not performed by owners personnel must be
performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of
the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (I)   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this ordinance. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   (J)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which references are made in this section shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (K)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment.
   (L)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of §§
51.02,
51.04,
51.05,
51.07, or
51.35(A) through (G), shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (M)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.02,
51.04,
51.05,
51.06,
51.07, or
51.35(A) through (G), shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or
damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 374, passed 5-23-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 374, passed 5-23-1983) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 UTILITY POWERS; BOARD.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with
the provisions of this section.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees; and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by city employees and against liabilities claims and demands
for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
51.05(H).
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to: inspection; observation; measurements;
sampling; repair; and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (E)   The City Council shall act as a Hearing Board as needed for
arbitration of differences between the Municipal Finance Officer and sewer
users on matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of
this subchapter by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 374, passed 5-23-1983)
SEWER FEES AND PAYMENT PROCEDURE
§ 51.20 NEW SEWER SERVICE; SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   The fee for connecting to the municipal sewer system shall be based on the
water meter size as follows:
 
3/4" or 1" meter $400
1-1/2" meter     $600
2" meter         $1,000
3" meter         $2,000
4" meter         $3,600
 
(Ord. 430, passed - -; Res. 2008-15, passed 8-11-2008; Ord. 708, passed 11-4-
2024)
§ 51.21 USAGE RATES, DEPOSITS, AND CLASSIFICATION OF USERS.
   (A)   The sewer rates shall be established by resolution of the City Council
and kept on file in the office of the City Finance Officer.
   (B)   Classification of users as needed for billing purposes may be
established by resolution of the City Council and kept on file in the office of
the City Finance Officer.
   (C)   The City Council may require deposits for a particular class of users
which requirement may be established by resolution of the City Council and kept
on file in the office of the City Finance Officer.
   (D)   All users shall be billed monthly. The charge shall be based on the
metered waste volume and the strength of the wastes discharged to the
wastewater system.
   (E)   The charge for high volume and/or strength users without flow metering
installations, or where data on volume and strength is not available, shall be
based on metered water consumption estimates prepared by the city or other
methods as determined by the city.
   (F)   The sewer rate shall be:
      (1)   Base rate of $26.88 per month for all users;
      (2)   Surcharge CW #1 of $10.50 per month per service;
      (3)   Surcharge CW #2 of $7.85 per month per service; and
      (4)   Usage fee of $4.60 per 1,000 gallons of water usage.
(Ord. 430, passed - -; Ord. 518, passed - -; Res. 2020-21, passed 7-6-2020;
Res. 2023-5, passed 3-13-2023; Res. 2024-5, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 51.22 PAYMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Payment of all water and sewer bills shall be due upon receipt by the
consumer, as set forth in §
50.04(D). Failure to pay by the consumer within the time specified shall result
in penalties and termination of service as set forth in Ordinance § 16-1-4.
   (B)   All users shall be billed monthly, such billing schedule to coincide
with the billing schedule for water users as set forth in §
50.29. The charge shall be based on the average of the actual water usage
during the metered periods ending on February, March, and April 15 of each
year, and said average shall remain the same for the following monthly billing
periods until April 15 of the next year when a new average will be calculated,
except as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   The charge for users not receiving water service from the city water
system during any or all of the metered periods ending on February, March, or
April 15 or where there is no prior water usage, shall be based on estimates
prepared by the city. If the metered water usage during any of the months used
in calculating the average are substantially high or low as compared to metered
water usage during the other months used in the calculation, a more appropriate
amount may be substituted for the substantially high or low month’s metered
water usage.
   (D)   The charge for users having substantially higher or lower metered
water usage in several of the following monthly billing periods than the
average as calculated in this section may be based on estimates as determined
by the city.
(Ord. 430, passed - -; Ord. 518, passed - -)
§ 51.23 SELLING AND SUPPLYING UTILITIES; EXCEPTION.
   No occupant or owner of any premises to which sewer service is supplied is
allowed to supply or shall supply to any person or families any sewer service
from the city system or permit the same to be used except upon special permit
from the City Council. Any consumer violating this provision will be charged
the additional amount that such user or users would be charged if the sewer
service was billed to the user or users by the city. This amount is to be
collected in the same manner and at the same rate as other sewer services.
(Ord. 430, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
PRIVATE SEWER TREATMENT SYSTEMS
§ 51.35 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.02, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Municipal
Finance Officer. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the Municipal
Finance Officer. A permit and inspection fee of $[blank] shall be paid to the
city at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Municipal Finance Officer. The Municipal Finance Officer shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the Municipal Finance Officer when the work is
ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
The inspection shall be made within 12 hours of the receipt of notice by the
Municipal Finance Officer.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Health or Water and Natural Resources of the state. No permit shall be issued
for any private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the area of the lot is less than 20,000 square feet. No septic
tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
51.02, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days in
compliance with this section, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
   (H)   No permits of any kind shall be issued in any industrial zoning
district not served by the municipal sanitary sewer system, unless a holding
tank is installed at the property owner’s expense under the following
guidelines.
      (1)   All property owners with a holding tank shall follow the rules and
regulations of Article 74:53, Chapter 1 of the state’s Plumbing Code.
      (2)   Holding tanks must be installed with no outlets, except one that is
accessible for pumping. All holding tanks must be maintained so as to prevent
any seepage or leakage. Only such holding tanks that are recommended for the
use by the City Engineer and approved by the City Council shall be installed.
No drain field or other means of underground distribution shall be installed on
the parcel of land. Property owner or developer will “stub” in sewer lines in
the event sewer is made available at a later date. The stub will need to pass
state inspection.
      (3)   All such holding tanks must be pumped, as required, into such
trucks or conveyances that will haul the sewage to an appropriate discharge
area. All holding tanks, wash racks, floor drains, grease pits, and the like
must be pumped by a licensed septic pumping service. All property owners with
holding tanks will be assigned a number for their tanks to be used as a
reference for pumping. It shall be the responsibility of the person authorizing
the pumping of a holding tank to provide such evidence of pumping to the
Director of Inspections or the Municipal Finance Officer within seven days
following any pumping of a holding tank. Such evidence shall state the location
of the holding tank, the date of pumping, the amount so pumped, and the
signature of the person or firm doing the pumping. No discharge of sewage from
a holding tank by pumping shall be distributed on any part of the lot.
      (4)   If in the event a holding tank is not pumped as required, the
Utility Superintendent, the City Health Officer, or the City Council shall
order such tank to be pumped, and for such purposes, may enter upon any such
lot or parcel of land. The owner of the lot shall pay any and all expenses
incurred in such pumping, and the City Council may use any legal means to
collect such expenses.
(Ord. 374, passed 5-23-1983; Ord. 555, passed 5-12-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.36 EXISTING SYSTEM AND NEW LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All existing septic tanks shall be considered non-conforming uses and
therefore may not be replaced. Any new construction or substantial improvement
must be connected to the city’s sewer system. Additionally, if the existing
septic system causes the ground water to become polluted, allows wastewater to
surface, causes a health hazard, or fails to meet the requirements of any other
section herein, the Building Inspector and Utilities Superintendent shall
require that the property at issue be connected to the city’s sewer system.
   (B)   Lot size exception and flow restriction as determined by Building
Inspector and Utilities Superintendent. When constructing a personal residence
within the city limits a user must hook up to and utilize the city sewer
system. Qualifying lots must be approved by the Building Inspector and
Utilities Superintendent prior to construction and installation. If said lot
size is one acre or more and city sewer system is deemed inaccessible by the
Building Inspector and Utilities Superintendent, a septic system may be
constructed. If mechanical means (a pump), or installation of 250 feet or more
of sewer line is deemed necessary to utilize the city sewer system, a septic
system may be constructed. Constructing and installation of the septic system
must be completed by a certified installer, as required by the Administrative
Rules of the state. All usage of the septic system must be documented and
submitted to City Hall by January 15 each year.
(Ord. 625, passed 2-1-2016; Ord. 697, passed 10-7-2024)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.37 INSPECTION, VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Utility Superintendent shall make any on-site inspection of the
installation of a holding tank. The Utility Superintendent shall certify the
holding tank is of a type approved, that there are no outlets or connections to
any drain field, dry hole, or any other means of distribution on the lot or
parcel of land affected by this section, and that all sources of sewage from
the lot or parcel of land are connected directly to such holding tank. It shall
be the responsibility of the developer or owner of such lot or parcel of land
to request such inspection before the holding tank or any of its connections
are covered. In the event the holding tank or any of its connections are
covered prior to any inspections, the Utility Superintendent shall order such
excavation as necessary to inspect the tank and all its connections. The owner
or developer requisitioning such inspection shall pay all expenses incurred in
excavation for the purpose of an inspection.
   (B)   Each day in violation of division (A) above and/or §
51.35(H) shall constitute a separate violation of division (A) above and §
51.35(H).
   (C)   Use of such holding tanks shall be discontinued within 60 days after
connection with the municipal sanitary sewage system is accessible.
(Ord. 734, passed 5-23-1983; Ord. 555, passed 5-12-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
51.05(L) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $100, or by imprisonment in the city jail not
to exceed 30 days, or by both such fine or imprisonment, for each violation.
   (C)   Any owner of any property that does not receive an inspection, as
described in §
51.37(A), whether voluntarily or involuntarily, will pay a fine of $1,000 per
day until in compliance.
(Ord. 374, passed 5-23-1983; Ord. 555, passed 5-12-2003)
CHAPTER 52: NATURAL GAS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Measurement
   
52.02   Installation definitions
   
52.03   Installation and codes
   
52.04   Drug and alcohol policy
   
52.05   Natural gas incentive
Natural Gas Field Licensing
   
52.20   License required
   
52.21   License application
   
52.22   License qualifications
   
52.23   License application fees
   
52.24   License term and renewal
   
52.25   License non-transferable
   
52.26   Bond and insurance
   
52.27   License issued
Natural Gas Fees and Payment Procedure
   
52.40   Owner responsible for costs
   
52.41   Usage rates, deposits, and classification of users
   
52.42   Disconnection of service; fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 MEASUREMENT.
   Measurement of natural gas shall be in accordance with methods used by the
city’s supplier of gas.
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 52.02 INSTALLATION DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCE INSTALLATION. The act of installing fixtures, equipment, and
apparatus of less than 60,000 BTU hourly input, using natural or artificial
gas, where not more than ten feet of piping is needed to connect the fixtures,
equipment, or apparatus.
   APPLIANCE INSTALLATION CONTRACTOR. Any person engaged in the business of
appliance installation in connection with the installation of gas appliances,
apparatus, fixtures, fittings, materials and/or supplies in or in connection
with any building or structure.
   APPLIANCE INSTALLER. Any person who, by his or her knowledge, training, and
experience, is qualified to do appliance installation.
   GAS COMPANY. The Natural Gas Utility Department of this city, its
successors, or assigns.
   GASFITTERS. Any person, who by his or her knowledge, training, and
experience, is qualified to do gasfitting and is in direct charge of making gas
installations.
   GASFITTING. The act of installing fixtures, equipment, and apparatus for
transporting and using natural gas, and includes the venting of gas fixtures
where required.
   GASFITTING CONTRACTOR. Any person engaged in the business of gasfitting in
connection with the installation of gas appliances, apparatus, fixtures,
fittings, materials and/or supplies, in or in connection with any building or
structure or to serve any building or structure with natural gas.
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 52.03 INSTALLATION AND CODES.
   (A)   All consumers conducting the initial installation will abide by all
natural gas service agreements previously signed and in place.
   (B)   All state regulated uniform standards and codes will be observed by
the homeowner, customer, and installation contractor.
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 52.04 DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY.
   City Council does hereby adopt the United States Department of
Transportation Drug and Alcohol Policy Manual as part of the Natural Gas
Operations and Maintenance Handbook.
(Res. 00-07-02, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 52.05 NATURAL GAS INCENTIVE.
   (A)   Purpose. The city will offer reduced natural gas costs to businesses
that meet the listed qualifications. The purpose of this section is to use the
city’s natural gas utility system to promote growth and improvements within our
community’s businesses.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MONTHLY SERVICE FEE. A monthly fee charged for future infrastructure
including meters and pipeline.
      RETAIL CHARGE. The cost the city charges basic maintenance.
      WHOLESALE PRICE. The value of natural gas paid by the city.
   (C)   Requirements. The requirements to qualify for the economic incentive
include:
      (1)   The business must be located in the city limits;
      (2)   The business shall submit proof of a state sales tax license;
      (3)   The business shall operate on a commercially zoned property; and
      (4)   The business must also meet the following qualifications:
         (a)   Be a new business to the community; or
         (b)   Be an existing business and make improvements that are valued at
$30,000 or more. The $30,000 improvements may include the purchase of
additional land and/or buildings. Improvements must include required building
permits and proof of costs through receipts. The improvements must also include
a business plan that shows increased square footage and/or a plan to increase
customer base or staff.
   (D)   Economic incentive schedule.
      (1)   The amount billed to the business through the incentive will
include wholesale natural gas, monthly service fee and the retail cost as
listed:
         (a)   Year 1: 0% retail cost;
         (b)   Year 2: 25% retail cost;
         (c)   Year 3: 50% retail cost;
         (d)   Year 4: 75% retail cost;
         (e)   Year 5: 75% retail cost; and
         (f)   Year 6: 100% retail cost.
      (2)   Once the project is complete, the incentive will start on the
nearest date of January 1 or July 1. This helps for accounting purposes to have
a uniform schedule.
      (3)   The City Council will review all applications for approval. The
City Council can remove a business from the natural gas incentive if it fails
to comply or maintain compliance with the requirements of division (C) above or
if there is a failure to act in good faith with the requirements of division
(C)(4)(b) above.
(Ord. 673, passed 10-11-2021)
NATURAL GAS FIELD LICENSING
§ 52.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in or work at the business of gasfitting or appliance
installation within this system unless licensed and bonded in the manner
provided herein, except as hereinafter provided for a property owner to do his
or her own work.
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 52.21 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for license as a gasfitter, appliance installer, gasfitting
contractor, or appliance installation contractor shall be made upon blanks
furnished by the Finance Officer and shall state the name of the person
desiring such license and the desire to engage in gasfitting, appliance
installation, gasfitting contractors, or appliance installation contractors.
The proposed place of business and the name under which the business is to be
carried on shall be stated.
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 52.22 LICENSE QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Applicants for gasfitter’s or appliance installer’s license shall
furnish the city with satisfactory evidence of their qualifications as
gasfitters or appliance installers and shall be required to pass an examination
given by the city. If the city deems the applicant to be qualified as a
gasfitter or appliance installer, the city shall approve the application. The
city, when determining the qualifications of an applicant, may call upon a
master plumber, gasfitter, appliance installer, or other persons for
assistance. Each gasfitter or appliance installer must work under the control
and supervision of a gasfitting or appliance installation contractor. However,
nothing in this chapter shall prevent an individual from being licensed as a
gasfitter or appliance installer, and a gasfitting contractor or appliance
installation contractor. If applicant is presently licensed by the state, a
license will be issued by the city upon payment of licensing fee.
   (B)   (1)   Any person desiring to engage in or work at the business of a
gasfitting contractor or appliance installation contractor shall furnish the
city with satisfactory evidence of their qualifications as gasfitting
contractors or appliance installation contractors.
      (2)   If the city deems the applicant to be qualified as a gasfitting
contractor or appliance installation contractor, the City Gas Inspector shall
approve the application. The city, when determining the qualifications of an
applicant, may call upon another person or persons for assistance.
   (C)   Every gasfitting contractor or appliance installation contractor shall
be required, at all times, to have a licensed gasfitting or licensed appliance
installer in charge of all work as a condition for the issuance and maintenance
of their license, except in the case where an individual holds both a
gasfitting and gasfitting contractor, or appliance installer and appliance
installation contractor license.
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 52.23 LICENSE APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   Application for license as gasfitter, appliance installer, gasfitting
contractor, and appliance installation contractor shall be filed with the City
Finance Officer and approved by the City Council. The applicant shall pay to
the City Finance Officer the following fees as applicable:
      (1)   Gasfitters license: $25 per year;
      (2)   Appliance installer license: $25 per year;
      (3)   Appliance installation contractor’s license: $25 per year; and
      (4)   Gasfitting contractor’s license fee shall be $100 for two years and
$100 renewal every two years thereafter.
   (B)   Any gasfitting contractor who lets his or her license lapse may be
subject to examination by the city and shall pay the initial first-year fee
again.
   (C)   At the time of the passage of this subsection, existing licensed
appliance installation contractors are hereby authorized to act as gasfitting
contractors without license or examination and to make installation of gas
equipment; provided that said installation are in compliance with the
regulations governing the said gasfitting contractors, for the calendar year
1997. By January 1, 1998, all acting gasfitting contractors must make
applications for a gasfitting contractor’s license at the regular license fee.
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 52.24 LICENSE TERM AND RENEWAL.
   All licenses shall be for the calendar year and shall expire at 12:00 a.m.
on December 31 following the date of issue. Licenses may be renewed by the City
Council without examination upon application by the holder and furnishing of
the proof of bond where required at anytime within 30 days from the date of
expiration.
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 52.25 LICENSE NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   All licenses are non-transferable and may, upon satisfactory proof of
negligence, incompetence, or failure to comply with city ordinance, be
temporarily revoked by the Superintendent of Utilities for a period not to
exceed 30 days, or until such time as regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
The City Council has the authority to permanently revoke all licenses or to
temporarily revoke until such time as a court hearing decides guilt or
innocence, as referenced in §
50.99.
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 52.26 BOND AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   A gasfitting contractor or appliance installation contractor shall
file a surety bond with the City Finance Officer before a license is granted or
before any such expiring license is renewed, in the amount of $5,000,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of all contracts entered into by such
contractor.
   (B)   A certificate of insurance shall be filed with the City Finance
Officer by each gasfitting contractor and appliance installation contractor
showing that the license has in force general liability insurance: in amounts
not less that $250,000 for damages caused by injury to one person; not less
than $500,000 for damage caused by injury to more than one person in one
accident; and not less than $250,000 property damage in one accident.
   (C)   Both bond and insurance shall be maintained during the term of the
license.
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 52.27 LICENSE ISSUED.
   After the applicant has complied with all conditions precedent to the
issuance of a gasfitter’s, gasfitting contractor’s, appliance installer’s, or
appliance installation contractor’s license, and after the approval of the bond
and insurance where required and the granting of such license to the applicant
by the City Council, the City Finance Officer shall issue to such person a
certificate of license, which, in the case of gasfitting contractors and
appliance installation contractors, shall give the name under which the
gasfitting contractor or appliance installation contractor will conduct
business and the existing or proposed place of business; and in the case of
gasfitters and appliance installer shall give his or her or their name and
place of residence and the name of the contractor that employs him or her. All
licenses shall show the date of issuance and the date of expiration of the same
and such other information as may be deemed advisable. Such license shall
entitle licensee to do business as before defined.
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
NATURAL GAS FEES AND PAYMENT PROCEDURE
§ 52.40 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS.
   All costs incurred in bringing natural gas from the main to the meter,
including all excavation from main to meter, all materials necessary to
complete construction, plus restoration of parking and street to its original
condition, will be the responsibility of the property owner if not installed
during the initial construction season, as set forth in §
52.03(A).
(Ord. 519, passed - -)
§ 52.41 USAGE RATES, DEPOSITS, AND CLASSIFICATION OF USERS.
   (A)   The natural gas rates shall be established by resolution of the City
Council and kept on file in the office of the City Finance Officer. Rates may
be modified at any time during the year and shall be effective on the first day
of the billing cycle following the effective date of the resolution. The
natural gas meter rates shall be structured to provide sufficient funds to
cover the following costs:
      (1)   Costs of current operation and maintenance;
      (2)   Amount necessary for working capital;
      (3)   Amounts necessary to make payments of principal and interest on all
obligations;
      (4)   Amounts necessary for a reasonable reserve for depreciation, and
which shall be used solely to pay for capital improvements necessary to off-set
current depreciation;
      (5)   Amounts necessary to fund a reserve account; and
      (6)   Amounts necessary to fund a surplus account.
   (B)   All revenue collected from the natural gas utility shall be deposited
in the natural gas account, which shall be classified as Enterprise Fund 617
pursuant to and in conformance with the municipal accounting standards
published by the Department of Legislative Audit.
   (C)   Classification of users for billing purposes, deposits, rates, and any
other purpose shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   The natural gas rates shall be as follows for in-city consumers:
      (1) Small (residential) customers:
         (a)   The basic rate shall be $15 per month; and
         (b)   The usage rate shall be $0.8446 per Ccf.
      (2)   Medium (commercial) customers (425 to 675 meters):
         (a)   The basic rate shall be $23 per month; and
         (b)   The usage rate shall be $0.8116 per Ccf.
      (3)   Large customers (1,000,000 to 3,000,000 to 5,000,000 meters):
         (a)   The basic rate shall be $113 per month; and
         (b)   The usage rate shall be $0.7936 per Ccf.
   (E)   The natural gas rates shall be as follows for outside of the city
limits customers:
      (1)   Small (residential) customers (250 meters):
         (a)   The basic rate shall be $15 per month; and
         (b)   The usage rate shall be $0.8446 per Ccf.
      (2)   Medium (commercial) customers (425 to 675 meters):
         (a)   The basic rate shall be $23 per month; and
         (b)   The usage rate shall be $0.8516 per Ccf.
      (3)   Large customers (1,000,000 to 3,000,000 to 5,000,000 meters):
         (a)   The basic rate shall be $113 per month; and
         (b)   The usage rate shall be $0.8336 per Ccf.
   (F)   Hook-up rates shall be as follows:
      (1)   In-city limits construction: $260 hook-up fee plus $1.80 per foot
over the first 150 feet; and
      (2)   Out-of-city limits construction: All costs charged to the city to
run said service to include meter charge.
   (G)   All monthly natural gas billings shall be billed using the above rate
and may fluctuate depending on the commodity rate, commodity transportation
rate, and debt retirement schedule.
(Ord. 540, passed - -; Res. 03-03-01, passed 3-10-2003; meeting minutes dated
2- -2021; meeting minutes 4- -2021; meeting minutes 5- -2021)
§ 52.42 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE; FEE.
   (A) Permanent disconnection of service can be obtained by having the service
line removed at the owner’s expense. The cost shall be established by
resolution by the City Council.
   (B) The cost for permanent disconnection of service from the natural gas
system shall be $500.
(Ord. 595, passed 12-14-2009; Res. 2009-16, passed 12-14-2009)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   “Garbage” defined
   
53.02   Garbage containers
   
53.03   Depositing of garbage
   
53.04   Duty to remove garbage
   
53.05   Hauling garbage by occupant
   
53.06   Yard waste
Commercial Garbage Haulers Licensing
   
53.20   License required
   
53.21   License application
   
53.22   License approval
   
53.23   License fees
   
53.24   License transfer
   
53.25   License expiration date
   
53.26   Revocation of license
Commercial Garbage Haulers
   
53.40   Unit inspection required
   
53.41   Vehicle and container design and capacity requirements
   
53.42   Loading of commercial vehicles
   
53.43   Minimum vehicle requirements
   
53.44   Proof of insurance; fees
   
53.45   Duty to follow health and safety regulations
   
53.46   Frequency of commercial collection
   
53.47   Rate of commercial garbage hauler
   
53.48   Recycling
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 “GARBAGE” DEFINED.
   The word GARBAGE, when used in this chapter, shall mean all refuse or
accumulation of animal or vegetable matter which attends the preparation,
transportation, cooking, eating, sale, or storage of meat, fish, vegetables,
fruit, and all other foods or food products found within the city which has
been condemned by the Health Officer as a nuisance or as likely to cause, or
transmit disease. The word GARBAGE shall also mean all other waste matter which
may be discarded, either human-made or naturally occurring, excepting hazardous
wastes, and all those which may be prohibited for common dumping as defined by
law.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.02 GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   The occupant of every dwelling house or apartment, every place of business,
and other building shall provide a suitable watertight can in which the
occupant shall cause to be deposited all garbage accumulating upon the
premises. Said garbage containers shall be kept at the rear of the premises
accessible to the collector. Garbage cans shall be provided with tightly fitted
covers, which shall not be removed except when necessary. The vicinity of
garbage cans shall be kept free from garbage and other prescribed matter that
attracts any type of pest.
(Ord. 406, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 DEPOSITING OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   No person shall deposit, throw, drop, or place any garbage, trash, or
recyclable material in or upon any street, alley, park, creek, river, or other
public place except as hereinafter provided. A person may deposit garbage,
trash, or recyclable material, the contents of which were consumed upon the
premises of any public place by such person, in receptacles designated for such
purpose.
   (B)   No person shall place any garbage or recyclable material in or upon
any private property, unless such property is either owned by that person or
that person has the permission of the owner or occupant of such private
property to place such garbage or recyclable material there and said permission
is not in violation of the agreement with the garbage collector.
   (C)   No garbage shall be placed upon any private property unless such
garbage shall be enclosed in a garbage can or suitable container, as provided
by §
53.02.
(Ord. 406, passed - -; Ord. 511, passed 9-16-1996) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 DUTY TO REMOVE GARBAGE.
   It shall be the duty of the occupant of every residence, business, or other
building to see that garbage is removed therefrom so as not to accumulate,
whether the same is hauled by said occupant or by commercial garbage hauler.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.05 HAULING OF GARBAGE BY OCCUPANT.
   If the occupant of any residence, business, or other building is the hauler
of garbage, said occupant shall obey all the ordinances and all of the rules
and regulations of the Health Officer and City Council. If the occupant is the
hauler of garbage, any vehicles used by said occupant with an open bed or box
must be tarped, and the vehicles used for transporting said garbage shall be
loaded so that no materials shall fall off or be blown off the vehicle while in
transit. If the occupant is the hauler of garbage, such garbage shall be
transported to on approved landfill site.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.06 YARD WASTE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste, including,
but not limited to: any garbage; trash; refuse; debris; rubbish; newspaper;
magazine; glass; metal; plastic; or paper containers or other packaging
construction material; abandoned motor vehicle, as defined in SDCL § 32-36-2;
motor vehicle parts; furniture; oil; carcass of a dead animal; any nauseous or
offensive matter of any kind; any object likely to injure any person or create
a traffic hazard; or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which
has been discarded, abandoned, or otherwise disposed of improperly.
      YARD WASTE. Any grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, leaves, or
branches.
   (B)   This city has been required by the state to create and maintain a yard
waste disposal site for the purpose of dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing,
discarding, or leaving yard waste.
      (1)   This site is located at Garretson Branch Pile.
      (2)   This site shall be operated and maintained by the city.
      (3)   Rates for the use of the yard waste disposal site shall be
established by resolution by the City Council.
      (4)   The use of the site is restricted to residents only, except that a
non-resident may use said site by first applying for a special permit at the
Finance Office, for which there will be a fee of an amount established by the
City Council by resolution, which is on file at the Finance Office.
      (5)   The site will be open between the hours of the day and the days of
the week as established by resolution of the City Council, to be amended from
time to time as the need exists, which resolution is on file at the Finance
Office.
      (6)   Only yard waste may be disposed of at the yard waste disposal site.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful to dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave,
cause or permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or
leaving of any litter at the yard waste dump site.
   (C)   The city will operate a city-wide clean-up site at its discretion.
      (1)   The city-wide clean-up site will be open as established by
resolution of the City Council, to be amended from time to time as the need
exists, which resolution is on file at the city’s Finance Office.
      (2)   Rates for the use of the of the city-wide clean-up site shall be
established by resolution by the City Council.
      (3)   The use of the city-wide clean-up site is restricted to city
residents only.
      (4)   All items deposited at the city-wide clean-up site shall be
declared abandoned property upon depositing the same.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or business
to do any of the following at the city-wide clean-up site:
         (a)   Dump, deposit, discard, or leave any refuse that is prohibited;
         (b)   Disregard the site caretaker’s directions;
         (c)   Retrieve, take away, or remove any rubble without written
permission from the city;
         (d)   Use the city-wide clean-up site unless a resident of the city;
and/or
         (e)   Use the city-wide clean-up site when it is closed to public use,
except by special permission of the city.
   (D)   The established rate for the yard waste disposal site and city-wide
clean-up program is a monthly fee of $1, to be billed on the utility bills of
all residents.
(Ord. 596, passed 1-11-2010; Res. 2010-02, passed 1-11-2010) Penalty, see §
53.99
COMMERCIAL GARBAGE HAULERS LICENSING
§ 53.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a commercial garbage hauler to use the streets for
the collection, removal, or disposal of any garbage, livestock waste, or
rubbish without first having obtained a commercial garbage hauler’s license
from the city. The number of licenses to be issued shall be set at one, with
additional licenses to be issued, if deemed necessary, by the City Council.
(Ord. 406, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.21 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   The form for application for a commercial garbage hauler’s license and the
renewal thereof, required by the provisions of this subchapter, shall be
provided by the city, and, upon completion, the same shall be filed at the
Finance Office by the applicant. At the time the applicant submits the
application, it shall also submit proof of certification by the Sioux Falls
Health Department/Runge Landfill that the applicant will be allowed to deposit
the garbage collected from the city in said landfill or successor landfill.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.22 LICENSE APPROVAL.
   Before any commercial garbage hauler’s license shall be issued, renewed, or
transferred under the provisions of this subchapter, the same shall first be
approved by the City Council. Once approved, licensed commercial garbage
haulers must begin commercially transporting garbage within seven days of the
date of issuance of the license. The failure to begin transporting garbage
within the said seven days shall cause the license to be revoked. Approval by
the City Council of renewals and proof by the commercial garbage hauler of
certification by the Sioux Falls Health Department/Runge Landfill shall be
performed on an annual basis.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.23 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The initial license fee for a commercial garbage hauler’s license
shall be $100 for the first year of operation or part of a year. Each year
thereafter, an existing commercial garbage hauler license holder may apply to
renew the garbage hauler’s license and a renewal fee of $100 shall be tendered
with the renewal application. The license or renewal thereof will not be
granted if the fee is not paid.
   (B)   The transfer fee for transfer of the commercial garbage hauler’s
license to a new owner is $25.
   (C)   Re-issuance fee for return of the commercial garbage haulers license
to a previous owner is $25.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.24 LICENSE TRANSFER.
   A commercial garbage hauler’s license issued under the provisions of this
subchapter may be transferred to a new owner after the transfer is approved by
the city and the new owner has paid the fee stated in §
53.23 above. A transfer will be approved only to a business operation meeting
the minimum start-up requirements for garbage hauling. A commercial garbage
hauler’s license transferred upon sale of a business to a new owner may be
reissued in the name of the previous owner upon payment of a re-issuance fee,
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, and proof that the business
has been returned.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.25 LICENSE EXPIRATION TERMS.
   Every commercial garbage hauler’s license issued under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be renewed at the city, a transfer fee as set out for in
first meeting of the City Council in June of each year, and shall expire on
June 15 of the following year unless renewed. Sale of a licensed commercial
garbage hauling business will cause the seller’s commercial hauler’s license to
expire upon consummation of the sale, unless said license is transferred
according to the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.26 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any commercial garbage hauler license or permit issued under the provisions
of this subchapter may be revoked by the City Council for the violation by the
licensee of any applicable provision, of state statute or city ordinance, rule,
or regulation.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
COMMERCIAL GARBAGE HAULERS
§ 53.40 UNIT INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   All garbage hauling units permitted under this subchapter shall be subject
to random inspections performed by the Sioux Falls Health Department/Runge
Landfill. Inspections are to be done at least annually, and proof of such
inspections shall be presented to the City Council.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.41 VEHICLE CONTAINER DESIGN AND CAPACITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All commercial garbage haulers are required to have water-tight vehicles or
containers, which shall be permanently covered with no openings on top that
would allow the contents to escape. All-metal boxes are required on vehicles
and shall be equipped with metal doors, which shall be in a closed position
when the vehicle is in motion. Containers must be attached to the frame when in
transport. Vehicles and containers must be manufactured or designed for garbage
hauling. Pick-up trucks containing dumpsters, open framed boxes, and wood
framed trucks are prohibited. Vehicles or containers meeting the required
standards shall be thoroughly washed at such times as may be directed by the
Sioux Falls Health Department/Runge Landfill, or as may be necessary to keep
the vehicles or containers in proper sanitary condition. Such vehicles or
containers transporting garbage, rubbish, or livestock waste shall be so loaded
that all the material shall be carried within the metal containers.
(Ord. 406, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.42 LOADING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   Vehicles used for transporting garbage, including rubbish, livestock waste,
and waste materials, shall be loaded so that no materials shall fall off or be
blown off the vehicle while the vehicle is in transit.
(Ord. 406, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.43 MINIMUM VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   Businesses or individuals seeking a commercial garbage haulers license shall
provide proof of ownership of a minimum of one packer truck in good working
condition.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.44 PROOF OF INSURANCE; FEES.
   No license shall be issued to any commercial garbage hauler until proof of
insurance is furnished to the city, showing such insurance to be in full force
and effect during the entire term of the business license. The licensee shall
furnish proof of liability insurance for public liability and property damage,
and for bodily injury/death growing out of any one accident or any other cause
in the minimum sum of $250,000 for one person, with an annual aggregate limit
of $500,000 for two or more persons; and in addition shall provide damage
liability insurance in the minimum of $100,000 for property damage growing out
of any one accident or other cause; or as an alternative to the above, provide
combined limit for bodily injury/death or property damage in the sum of
$500,000. Such public liability property damage insurance shall protect against
loss from liability imposed by law for damages on account of bodily injury;
including death resulting therefrom, suffered, or alleged to have been
suffered, by any person or persons whatever, resulting directly or indirectly
from any act or activity of the licensee, or any person acting for licensee or
under the licensee’s control, or direction and also to protect against; loss
from liability imposed by law for damages to property, or any person caused
directly or indirectly by acts or activities of the licensee, or any person
fitting for the licensee or under the licensee’s control or direction.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.45 DUTY TO FOLLOW HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   Commercial garbage collectors and haulers shall obey all the ordinances and
all the rules and regulations of the Health Officer and City Council, and
report to the City Council any violations of this chapter which may come to
their notice.
(Ord. 406, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.46 FREQUENCY OF COMMERCIAL COLLECTION.
   Every licensed commercial garbage, collector, and hauler shall collect the
garbage, rubbish, and livestock waste from the residential districts at least
once each week, and from the business districts at least once each week, or as
needed. The City Council, in conjunction with the City Health Officer shall
have the power and authority to determine that an individual business requires
the licensed commercial garbage hauler to collect therefrom more than once a
week, and to determine the number of collections per week.
(Ord. 406, passed - -)
§ 53.47 RATE OF COMMERCIAL GARBAGE HAULER.
   The application for a commercial garbage hauler’s license and the renewal
thereof, required by the provisions of this chapter, shall be accompanied by
the proposed rates which the commercial garbage hauler proposes to charge
customers, with such charges being categorized as to residential, commercial,
and any special charge. All rates shall be volume-based. If the application or
renewal is granted, said rates identified by the commercial garbage hauler
shall remain in effect during the term of license permit period, unless the
commercial garbage hauler applies to the city for a change in rates for just
cause and the same is approved by the City Council. A commercial garbage hauler
shall be under no obligation to remove any garbage unless the payment for the
removal of such garbage as provided shall have been made by the customer.
(Ord. 437, passed - -)
§ 53.48 RECYCLING.
   It shall be the responsibility of all licensed garbage haulers to provide
recycling opportunities, as required by state law and Sioux Falls for use of
the Runge Landfill.
(Ord. 509, passed 9-16-1996)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §
53.03 shall pay a fine of $150 per occurrence.
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of §
53.06(A) and (B) shall be subject to a fine to not exceed $200 or 30 days in
jail, or both.
(Ord. 511, passed 9-16-1996; Ord. 569, passed 9-12-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING RULES
      
72.   TRUCKS
      
73.   RAILROAD TRAINS
      
74.   TOY AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Traffic signs and signals
   
70.02   Right-of-way
   
70.03   Crossing
   
70.04   Turning around; turning corners
   
70.05   Stop before entering
   
70.06   Lights and numbers
   
70.07   Speed limits
   
70.08   Accidents; duty to stop
   
70.09   Duty to report damaged vehicles
   
70.10   Careless\reckless\exhibition driving
Operational Vehicle Nuisances
   
70.25   Mufflers and noise levels
   
70.26   Dynamic braking devices
   
70.27   Vehicles with lugs
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   The owner, operator, driver, or person in charge of any vehicle used,
propelled, or driven upon the streets, avenues, alleys, or public grounds of
the city shall conform to and observe the following rules and regulations of
this traffic code.
   (B)   The governing body shall, by resolution, determine and designate the
character or type of all official traffic signs and signals, all such signs and
signals to be uniform throughout the city, as far as is practicable; provided
that all official traffic signs and signals now erected and in operation are
hereby designated official traffic signs and signals.
   (C)   Subject to this selection, the Chief of Police is hereby authorized,
and as to those signs and signals required hereunder, it shall be his or her
duty to place and maintain, or cause to be placed and maintained, all official
traffic signs and signals.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, move,
obstruct, or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. It shall be
unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or to display upon or in view of
any street any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to be, or is
an imitation of or resembles any official traffic sign or signal, or which
attempts to direct the movement of traffic. Every such prohibited sign, signal,
or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and the Chief of Police
is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed, without
notice.
   (F)   Every motor vehicle shall be provided with adequate brakes in good
working order and sufficient to control such motor vehicle at all times when
the same is in use, and a suitable bell, horn, or other device for signaling.
(Ord. 144, passed 8-2-1920; Ord. 194 passed 9-14-1942) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Ambulances, Fire, and Police Department vehicles, when responding to or
returning from an emergency call, shall have the right-of-way, and when driver
of such vehicle on such a call shall give audible signal by bell, siren, or
exhaust whistle, the operator or every vehicle shall immediately drive his or
her vehicle as near as possible and parallel to the right-hand curb of the
street clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position
until such emergency vehicle shall have passed, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. Every driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection of a
street shall grant the right-of-way at such intersection to any vehicle
approaching such intersection from his or her right; provided that whenever
traffic officers are stationed at said intersections, they shall have full
power to regulate traffic.
(Ord. 194 passed 9-14-1942) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 CROSSING.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any
fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department Official in
charge.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any horse, vehicle, or motor vehicle to cross
over from the right- hand side of the street to the left-hand side, except upon
the intersection of said street with another street, and in so turning such
horse, vehicle, or motor vehicle, shall pass around the center of said
intersection.
   (C)   No person shall cause any traction engine to go upon or cross over any
cement or concrete cross walks upon any street, without first covering such
crosswalk with planks at least eight feet long, 12 inches wide, and three
inches thick; the same to be placed upon such crosswalk so as to completely
cover the same and to extend at least one and one-half feet on each side
thereof, in such manner that the wheels of such traction engine shall rest
entirely upon said planks while passing over such crosswalk.
(Ord. 86, passed 7-8-1908; Ord. 144, passed 8-2-1920; Ord. 194, passed 9-14-
1942) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 TURNING AROUND; TURNING CORNERS.
   (A)   A horse, vehicle, or motor vehicle turning into a street to the right
shall turn the corner as near the right-hand curb at practicable.
   (B)   A horse, vehicle, or motor vehicle turning into a street to the left
shall, before turning, pass around the center of the intersection of the two
streets.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle about to turn shall give timely signal by hand
or other unmistakable manner to indicate the direction of the turn.
   (D)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction on any street in a business or commercial area, or at
any intersection controlled by traffic control signals, and shall not upon any
other street so turn a vehicle, except at an intersection, and at such time the
driver commits a petty offense.
(Ord. 194, passed 9-14-1942; Ord. 614, passed 11-1-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 STOP BEFORE ENTERING.
   The operator of a vehicle emerging from an alley, private driveway, or
building into a street, or entering a through street, shall stop such vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto a crosswalk or crosswalk area extending
across such an approach.
(Ord. 194, passed 9-14-1942) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 LIGHTS AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   A motor vehicle shall, while in motion, during the period from half an
hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, display at least two lighted
lamps on the front and one on the rear of such motor vehicle. Such lamps to
conform to the state law; provided that a motorcycle or motor bicycle shall be
required to display but one lighted lamp in front and one in the rear.
   (B)   All vehicles shall, during the period from one-half hour after sunset
to one-half hour before sunrise, display at least two lighted lamps on the
front and one on the rear of such motor vehicle, which rear lamp shall display
a red light, plainly visible from the rears; provided that a motor cycle shall
be required to display but one lighted lamp in front and one in the rear. The
rays of such rear light shall shine upon the number plate carried upon the rear
of such motor vehicle, in such manner as to render the numerals thereon plainly
visible, and every motor vehicle shall, at all times, have the number assigned
to it by the state displayed on the back of such motor vehicle and plainly
visible as above provided.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to use any acetylene, gas, or electric head
lights or side lights upon any vehicle or motor vehicle upon any of the streets
and alleys of the city, unless same are dimmed in such a way as to prevent the
light from being dazzling or blinding to persons using the street.
(Ord. 144, passed 8-2-1920; Ord. 194, passed 9-14-1942) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any driver to drive any motor vehicle upon
the public streets, alleys, or public grounds at a greater rate of speed than
12 mph, and in turning corners from street to another street or crossing
intersections, the rate of speed shall not exceed eight mph.
   (B)   It shall be prima facia lawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive
or propel the same at a speed not exceeding the following, but in any case when
such speed on such street would be unsafe, it shall not be deemed lawful:
      (1)   Fifteen mph when approaching within 50 feet of a railway crossing
when the driver’s view is obstructed. A driver’s view shall be deemed to be
obstructed when at any time during the last 200 feet of his or her approach to
such crossing, he or she does not have a clear and uninterrupted view of such
railway crossing and of any traffic on such railway, for a distance of 400 feet
in each direction from such crossing;
      (2)   Twenty mph when passing a school during school recess, or while
children are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours;
      (3)   Twenty mph when approaching within 50 feet and in traversing an
intersection of a street when the driver’s view is obstructed. A driver’s view
shall be deemed obstructed when at any time during the last 50 feet of his or
her approach to such intersection, he or she does not have a clear and
uninterrupted view of such intersection and of the traffic upon all the streets
entering such intersection, for a distance of 200 feet from such intersection;
      (4)   Twenty mph in traversing or going around curves, or traversing a
grade upon a street or alley, when the driver’s view is obstructed within a
distance of 100 feet along such street or alley in the direction in which he or
she is proceeding;
      (5)   Twenty mph on any street in the BUSINESS DISTRICT. The BUSINESS
DISTRICT is the following area: Main Avenue from Second Street to Fifth Street;
Third Street from Center Avenue to Depot Avenue; Fourth Street from Center
Avenue to Depot Avenue; and
      (6)   Thirty mph in a residence district, public parks, and public
grounds, unless a different speed is fixed and posted by the Police Department.
(Ord. 144, passed 8-2-1920; Ord. 194, passed 9-14-1942) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 ACCIDENTS; DUTY TO STOP.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury or
death to any person, or damage to property, shall immediately stop such vehicle
at the scene of such accident and shall give his or her name, address, and
registration number of his or her vehicle to the person struck, the driver, or
occupant of any vehicle collided with; and shall render to any person injured
in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying of such person
to a physician or surgeon for medical treatment, if it is apparent that such
treatment is necessary, or is requested by the injured person, and shall
forthwith report the accident to the Police Department stating the place of
accident and the kind and extent of the damage caused.
(Ord. 194, passed 9-14-1942) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 DUTY TO REPORT DAMAGED VEHICLE.
   The person in charge of any garage, repair shop, or service station to which
is brought any vehicle which shows evidence of having been involved in a
serious accident or struck by any bullet shall report to the police at once,
giving kind of car and license number, and, if possible, the name and address
of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(Ord. 194, passed 9-14-1942) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 CARELESS\RECKLESS\EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   (A)   Reckless driving. Any person who drives a vehicle within the limits of
the city carelessly, heedlessly, in disregard of the rights or safety of
others, without due caution and circumspection, or at a speed or in a manner so
as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property shall be guilty
of reckless driving.
   (B)   Careless driving. Any person who drives a vehicle within the limits of
the city carelessly in disregard to the width, grade, curves, corners,
conditions, customary usage of the streets or highways, or who temporary
inadvertence to the operation of such vehicle causes or is likely to cause
damage to any person or property shall be guilty of careless driving.
   (C)   Exhibition driving. Any person who drives a vehicle within the limits
of the city in such a manner that it creates or causes unnecessary engine
noise, or tire squeal, skid, or slide upon acceleration or stopping; or that
simulates a temporary race; or that causes the vehicle to turn abruptly or sway
shall be guilty of exhibition driving.
(Ord. 257, passed 11-6-1967; Ord. 510, passed 8-12-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 32-24-9
OPERATIONAL VEHICLE NUISANCES
§ 70.25 MUFFLERS AND NOISE LEVELS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, or any type of machine or
engine propelled vehicle, unless it is provided with a muffler effectively
muffling the exhaust and noise of such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, or any type of machine or
engine propelled vehicle, in any manner which makes unnecessary loud noises,
intentional noises, or emits therefrom excessive smoke.
   (C)   Muffler cut outs, straight pipes, or other mechanisms for exhaust of
such vehicles which are designed to permit loud noises, or are designed to not
prohibit such loud noises, are prohibited. No person shall drive a motor
vehicle, or any type of motor vehicle or any type of machine or engine
propelled vehicle, with the above described mechanisms in operation.
(Ord. 200.5, passed 8-5-1946) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a dynamic braking device (commonly referred
to as Jacobs Brake) on any motor vehicle, except to avert imminent danger,
within or adjacent to the city limits. This device converts the internal
combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of braking without the
use of wheel brakes.
(Ord. 637, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 VEHICLES WITH LUGS.
   It shall be unlawful to move any tractor engine, tractor, or other vehicle
having wheels to the surface of which are attached mudlugs, ice spurs, spikes,
chains, or wheels with narrow steel tires upon or across any street that is
surfaced with hardsurfacing material, without first laying planks of at least
two-inch thickness over the surface of such street in a manner so as to protect
such street from contact with such vehicle.
(Ord. 200, passed 8-5-1946) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §§
70.01(A) through
70.01(E),
70.02,
70.05,
70.06(A),
70.07(B),
70.08, and
70.09, or failing to comply with any of the provisions thereof, shall, upon
conviction thereof, where no penalty or punishment is prescribed in the chapter
containing such provision, be punished by a fine of not exceeding $100, or by
imprisonment in the city jail or workhouse for a period of not exceeding 50
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court;
provided that in all cases where a fine is imposed the court may, in the event
the fine is not paid, commit the person or persons to the city jail or
workhouse for a period of one day for each $2 of such fine.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
70.03(A) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, or by imprisonment for a
period not exceeding six months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
70.10 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $100, or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
70.25 shall be subject to arrest and, upon conviction, subject to a fine not to
exceed $25 and costs, and shall be prohibited from driving said vehicle in the
city until the condition causing the arrest and conviction is corrected.
   (F)   Any person or entity that shall be found to have violated the terms of
§
70.26 by using a dynamic braking system, within or adjacent to the city limits,
shall be guilty of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of $200.
   (G)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
70.27, or failing to comply with any of the provisions thereof, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $100, or by
imprisonment in the jail for a period of not exceeding 30 days, or both such
fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 194, passed 9-14-1942; Ord. 200, passed 8-5-1946; Ord. 200.5, passed 8-5-
1946; Ord. 257, passed 11-6-1967; Ord. 637, passed 5-7-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 32-24-9
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES
Section
   
71.01   Method of parking
   
71.02   Blocking traffic, street crossings, and fire hydrants
   
71.03   Parking during snow removal emergency
   
71.04   Campers, motor homes, boats, and trailers restricted
   
71.05   Removal of cars illegally parked
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   Angle parking required in downtown business area.
      (1)   All motor vehicles in the downtown business area shall be parked at
a 45-degree angle, with the right front wheel or single wheel of a motorcycle
within 18 inches of the curb.
      (2)   All motor vehicles shall park on the right-hand side of the street
from the proper direction of travel. No vehicle shall be allowed to proceed
into a diagonal parking space which would required the driver to cross the
center of the street and would result in facing the direction in which it came.
In turn, when backing out of the diagonal parking spot, the driver may not back
out and cross the center of the street in a manner that would result in
proceeding in the opposite direction as originally parked. Violation to this
type of parking manner results in the driver committing a petty offense.
      (3)   Exception to required angle parking in the downtown business area
would be at those times when the streets are being removed of snow by the city
crew or subcontractors contracted by the city. At such time, parallel parking
in the downtown business area is allowed.
   (B)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   No parking spaces are permitted in the required front yard within
the Residential (R) District, except for portions of the front yard with a hard
surface, gravel improved driveway, or parking pad which follows zoning and
building requirements. Parking is permitted in a side yard or rear yard on a
hard surface, gravel parking pad, or driveway, as long as it is no closer than
two feet from the property line.
      (2)   No parking is permitted on sidewalks or extending into the right-
of-way.
      (3)   No overnight parking in any location where official signs prohibit
overnight parking.
(Ord. 614, passed 11-11-2013; Ord. 640, passed 10-1-2018; Ord. 709, passed 12-
2-2024)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 BLOCKING TRAFFIC, STREET CROSSINGS, AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Vehicles of all kinds shall not be parked or left within ten feet of a fire
hydrant, nor in such a position as to obstruct a crossing, unless to allow
another vehicle or pedestrian to cross its path.
(Ord. 144, passed 8-2-1920) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SNOW REMOVAL EMERGENCY. There shall be a SNOW REMOVAL EMERGENCY whenever
there is a snow accumulation on the public streets of the city of two inches or
more, and provisions of this division in regard to parking on public streets
during snow removal operations shall be effective and will be enforced.
      STREET. The entire width of any public roadway within the city; and it
shall not be limited to those roadways designated as a “Street” but include
“Avenues” and all other names by which public roadways are designated, but
shall not include alleys or alleyways.
   (B)   Prohibited parking on streets. In the event of a snow removal
emergency, as defined by division (A) above, no person shall park, or allow to
remain parked, any motor vehicle or trailer on any public street until such
time as the street has been cleared of snow.
   (C)   Restricted parking in alleys. In the event of a snow removal
emergency, as defined by division (A) above, parking in alleys shall be
permitted; provided, however, no person shall park, or allow to remain parked,
any motor vehicle or trailer on any public alley so as to obstruct emergency
through traffic.
   (D)   Towing in the downtown area. Any vehicle parked in the downtown area
between Fifth Street and Second Street and/or between Depot Avenue and Center
Avenue will be immediately ticketed and towed in the event of snow emergency,
as defined by division (A) above.
   (E)   Immunity of liability in event of violation. The city shall not be the
responsible party for providing alternate parking space during a snow removal
emergency, and neither the city, nor its agents, nor it employees will be
liable for damage to any person, motor vehicle, or trailer damaged by snow
removal operations when such motor vehicle or trailer damaged by snow removal
operations is in violation of divisions (A) through (C) above.
   (F)   No authorization for otherwise prohibited or restricted parking.
Nothing in divisions (A) through (D) above authorizes parking of a vehicle
where otherwise prohibited or restricted, by signs or otherwise.
(Ord. 393, passed 3-2-1987; Ord 521, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 CAMPERS, MOTOR HOMES, BOATS, AND TRAILERS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall park any boat, camper, motor home, trailer, or any
other type of vehicle other than a motor vehicle on any street within the city
for a period of longer than 72 hours during the months of May through October.
These same vehicles shall be prohibited from parking on any street within the
city during the months of November through April.
   (B)   Parking of any boat, camper, motor home, trailer, or any other type of
vehicle other than a motor vehicle, on any street within the city is allowed
for no more than 72 hours for cleaning, loading, and unloading only.
(Ord. 640, passed 10-1-2018; Ord. 702, passed 10-7-2024)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 REMOVAL OF CARS ILLEGALLY PARKED.
   Any vehicle parked in violation of this chapter or traffic ordinance of the
city may be removed from the streets and or impounded by the Police Department
and placed in public or private storage, and the owner thereof, in addition to
the fines and penalties which may be imposed for such violation, shall pay the
full charge for towing and will pay $5 per day for storage of said vehicle so
removed by order of the Police Department.
(Ord. 552, passed 11-12-2002)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The fine for prohibited or restricted parking as set forth in §
71.03 in a street or alley shall be $25 for first offense, $25 for second
offense, and $50 for third offense. All fines for prohibited or restricted
parking shall be payable at the Police Department within 72 hours from issuance
or the fine will increase by $25. In the event of a failure to pay a prohibited
or restricted parking fine within ten days, or in the event of a not guilty
plea, the matter shall be heard by the Magistrate Court of the Judicial
Circuit, which shall impose a fine of not more than $100 upon a guilty verdict.
      (2)   Any vehicle or trailer parked in violation of §§
71.01 and
71.03 is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and shall be towed at the
owners expense if not removed within 24 hours.
      (3)   Any vehicle described in §
71.04, other than a motor vehicle, that is parked in violation of §
71.04 shall be first tagged with a warning citation, listing the date of the
offense, license number of the vehicle, make, violation number, and location of
offense with reference to street. The owner of said vehicle shall have no more
than 72 hours to remove the vehicle from the street. If the owner of said
vehicle fails to remove it from the street within the 72-hour timeframe, the
city may issue a citation imposing a fine not to exceed $100, which fine must
be paid by taking such citation to the city office and depositing the fine
payment with the City Finance Officer. The amount of the fine shall be at the
discretion of the code officer or law enforcement officer issuing the citation.
Each day of violation is considered a separate offense. If the owner or
operator fails to comply within seven days from the date of the citation, a
summons requiring appearance at the city office and payment of the fine will be
issued. If the summons is not complied with, a warrant may be issued to bring
the owner into court and the fine plus court costs will be assessed by the
court for the violation. Any vehicle described in §
71.04, other than a motor vehicle, may be removed from the streets by a code
officer or a law enforcement officer and placed in public or private storage
and owner thereof, in addition to the fines and penalties provided herein,
shall pay the charges for towing and storage of said vehicle.
(Ord. 412A, passed 1-30-1992; Ord. 521, passed - -; Ord. 702, passed 10-7-2024,
Ord. 709, passed 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 72: TRUCKS
Section
   
72.01   Truck routes
   
72.02   Load limits
   
72.03   Exceptions
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The City Council, by resolution, may designate streets and highways within
the city as truck routes. Truck routes will be enforced by the weight limits
imposed by §
72.02. Any motor vehicle exceeding such limits is in violation of this chapter,
unless such vehicle meets an exception as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 438, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 1990 Revisions, SDCL §§ 9-31-1, 9-31-2, 32-14-7
§ 72.02 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Trucks may operate on any designated truck route as long as the gross
vehicle weight complies with the requirements of state law.
   (B)   Trucks whose gross weight is more than 10,000 pounds may only operate
on designated truck routes, as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 652, passed 2-3-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever any truck route has been established and identified, any
person driving a truck having a gross weight of 10,000 pounds or more shall
drive such truck on such routes and none other, except when it is impracticable
to do so or where it becomes necessary to traverse another street or streets to
a destination for the purpose of loading or unloading commodities, or for the
purpose of towing a disabled or damaged motor vehicle to or from public or
private property, and then only by such deviation from the nearest truck route
as is reasonably necessary.
   (B)   Any semi-tractor which is not currently hooked onto a trailer may park
outside of the owner’s personal residence for a time period not to exceed seven
consecutive days. A parked semi-tractor must adhere to all parking regulations
the same as any other motor vehicle.
(Ord. 614, passed 11-11-2013; Ord. 652, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code or ordinances.
   (B)   Fine for the violation of §§
72.02(A) through
72.03(A) is:
      (1)   Fifty dollars for driving a truck not on a truck route; and
      (2)   Seventy-five dollars for exceeding load limit.
(Ord. 2020-08, passed 3-2-2020)
CHAPTER 73: RAILROAD TRAINS
Section
   
73.01   Lights and signals
   
73.02   Blocking crossings
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 LIGHTS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council shall, by resolution, so order and direct,
any railway company or companies owning or operating any railway over, across,
and along any street, avenue, or alley shall keep and maintain lights during
all hours of the night as designated in said resolution.
   (B)   Whenever said City Council shall direct the lighting of any crossing
by said railway company or companies, a copy of the resolution ordering the
same shall be, by the Chief of Police, served upon the said company or
companies and thereafter, within 20 days, said railway company or companies
shall do and perform the acts required by said resolution.
   (C)   Any railroad company operating a line of railway through or into any
part of the city shall station and keep flaggers from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
of every day on which it shall run trains, at such public street crossings, on
such line of railway within the city limits, as the City Council may from time
to time designate, and shall cause flaggers to display, at the crossing at
which they may be respectively placed, a danger signal, on the approach of any
car or train of cars, or any locomotive on such railway, which said signal
shall be a lighted red lantern at night and a red flag in the day time, and
shall be so displayed on each occasion as soon as any car or train of cars, or
any locomotive about to pass over the crossings shall arrive at a point 1,500
feet distant from such crossing, and be kept in plain sight until such car,
train of cars, or locomotive shall have passed by. The designation of the
street crossings at which flaggers are to be stationed and kept, and at which
danger signals are to be displayed as aforesaid, shall be by resolution, in
writing, duly adopted by the City Council, and a copy of such resolution, duly
certified by the City Auditor, shall, immediately after its adoption, be
personally delivered by the Chief of Police to the station agent of each line
of railway to which said resolution may be applicable.
(Ord. 98, passed 12-8-1910; Ord. 99, passed 12-8-1910) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 BLOCKING CROSSINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any
railroad train or car to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such
manner as to prevent unnecessarily the use of any street for purposes of travel
for a period of time longer than ten minutes; except that this provision shall
not apply to trains or cars in continuous motion.
   (B)   The requirements set forth in division (A) above and this division (B)
shall not apply to any railroad engine or cars occupying or blocking any
street, road, or highway crossing where such occupying or blocking is
necessitated or required in order to comply with a rule, regulation, or order
issued by any state or federal regulatory body, as provided by SDCL § 49-16A-
94.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any conductor, engineer, or other person,
company, or corporation to allow any locomotive, car, or cars to remain on the
track of any railroad in such a manner as to obstruct any street crossing,
sidewalk, or any part of the public street, for a longer period of time than
ten minutes, except when it is necessary for the conductor, engineer, or other
person, company, or corporation to comply with governmental regulations.
(Ord. 369, passed 9-13-1982; Ord. 618, passed 2-10-2014) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In the event of their failure to comply with the directions and
orders described in §
73.01(B), said company or companies shall forfeit and pay to the said city the
sum of $10 for each day’s failure, to be recovered before any court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   If any railway company operating any line of railway on which
public street crossings shall have been designated in the manner aforesaid in §
73.01(C) as crossings, at which flaggers are required to be stationed and kept,
and danger signals to be displayed as aforesaid, shall refuse or neglect for
more than ten days after a copy of the resolution designating such crossings
shall have been served upon the local station agent of said line of railway, as
aforesaid in §
73.01(C), to station and keep a flagman at each crossing so designated such
company offending shall be liable to a penalty of $100; and said penalty shall
also accrue for each subsequent period of ten days during which such refusal
shall continue.
      (3)   Any person who may be stationed as a flagman, for the purpose
aforesaid, at any such crossing, on any line of railway in said city who shall
willfully fail or neglect to display at such crossing the proper signal at the
proper time on the approach of any car, train of cars, or locomotive on such
railway, as provided in §
73.01(C), shall be liable to a fine of not less than $5, nor more than $50.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or persons found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of §
73.02(A) and (B) shall be subject to a fine of not more than $100, or
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days, or both fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   A complaint may be filed by any member of the Fire Department,
Community Ambulance Corporation, or City Council. A complaint of the violation
described in §
73.02(C) by such party to law enforcement shall constitute the commencement
time of the violation occurring. Violation and fine shall be issued by the
police services to the conductor, engineer, or other person, company, or
corporation responsible for locomotive, car, or cars to remain on the railroad
track in a manner that obstructs any street crossing. The fine shall be set by
resolution by the City Council.
      (3)   Fine for the violation of §
73.02 is a Class Two misdemeanor, $200.
(Ord. 98, passed 12-8-1910; Ord. 99, passed 12-8-1910; Ord. 369, passed 9-13-
1982; Ord. 618, passed 2-10-2014, Res. 2014-02, passed 2-10-2014)
CHAPTER 74: TOY AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
74.01   Definition
   
74.02   Permit required; fees
   
74.03   Operation requirements
   
74.04   Violations; revocation of permit
Snowmobiles
   
74.15   Definitions
   
74.16   Licencing, permits, and registration
   
74.17   Operation requirements
Off-Road Vehicles
   
74.30   Definitions
   
74.31   Regulations
 
   
74.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 74.01 DEFINITION.
   A GOLF CART is a self-propelled machine, powered either by battery or
internal combustion engine, originally designed for transporting one or two
persons and their equipment around a golf course for purposes of the game of
golf. A GOLF CART may be three- or four-wheeled.
(Ord. 638, passed 7-2-2018)
§ 74.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart upon any public street within the
city without having first obtained a permit therefor from the City Finance
Office. The fee to be charged for such permit shall be as from time to time
established by resolution of the City Council. Permitted operation upon a
public way shall be in compliance with all provisions of this subchapter.
Permits issued pursuant to this subchapter may be transferred with the transfer
of ownership of the permitted golf cart and shall expire on December 31 of each
year.
   (B)   The annual golf cart permit for the golf cart to be used on city
streets as stated in division (A) above has been set at $20 to be renewed
annually, January 1.
(Ord. 638, passed 7-2-2018; Res. 2018-12, passed 7-2-2018)
§ 74.03 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Operation of a permitted golf cart upon the public streets shall be in
conformance with all of the following requirements.
   (B)   The person operating the golf cart:
      (1)   Must be in possession of a valid driver’s license;
      (2)   Must have in effect insurance covering operation of the golf cart
in not less than the minimum required by the state for operation of licensed
vehicles on public ways;
      (3)   Shall only be operated at times between sunrise and sunset; unless
equipped with lights as required by SDCL § 32-17, then operation will be
allowed after dark;
      (4)   The permit shall be visibly displayed at the rear left side of the
golf cart;
      (5)   Shall not operate the golf cart upon any state or federally
designated highway, excepting only to cross such highways;
      (6)   Shall not drive on the sidewalk;
      (7)   All persons within the permitted golf cart shall be seated at all
times, and no person shall at any time be on the outside or on the top of the
permitted golf cart at any time during operation on a public street;
      (8)   Shall be equipped with a slow moving vehicle sign positioned and
plainly visible on
the rear of the golf cart which conforms to the provisions of SDCL § 32-15-20;
      (9)   The permitted golf cart shall not be used in chasing after persons
or animals; and
      (10)   Shall comply with all laws and regulations applicable to operation
of vehicles on public streets.
(Ord. 638, passed 7-2-2018)
§ 74.04 VIOLATIONS; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person who operates a golf cart upon a public street in violation
of this subchapter shall be subject to citation and punishment upon conviction,
as provided in the general penalty as set by resolution by City Council.
   (B)   Any permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be subject to
revocation by the Chief of Public Safety in the event the permitted golf cart
is operated by any person in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
Notice of revocation shall be given to the owner of the golf cart in person or
by mail.
(Ord. 638, passed 7-2-2018)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 74.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any state, county, local, or other employee or
officer of the state, county, city, or any political subdivisions thereof and
who is responsible for the prevention and detection of crime and the
enforcement of the criminal or traffic laws of the state, county, city, or any
political subdivision thereof.
   OPERATE. To control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or who is in actual physical control of
a snowmobile.
   OWNER. Any person, other than a lienholder, having the property in or title
to a snowmobile and entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All property owned or controlled by the city.
   PUBLIC STREETS. Any street, roadway, or alley as the same is platted.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any engine-driven vehicle of a type which utilizes sled type
runners, wheels, or skis with an endless belt tread or similar means of contact
with the surface upon which it is operated.
(Ord. 312, passed 1-14-1975)
§ 74.16 LICENCING, PERMITS, AND REGISTRATION.
   No snowmobile shall be operated on the public streets or public property in
or of the city, except when all of the following requirements are met and
existing:
   (A)   The operator must have issued to such operator a valid driver’s
license or permit from the state; or, if a nonresident, a valid driver’s
license or permit from the state of residency of such operator; and
   (B)   The snowmobile is registered in the state under the state statutes
relating to title registration, annual registration, and license plates, and
there is displayed on the snowmobile license plates as may be required by state
statute; or, if the owner is a non-resident of state, the snowmobile is validly
licensed in another state and has not been within South Dakota for a period of
more than 60 days.
(Ord. 312, passed 1-14-1975)
§ 74.17 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the following manner:
      (1)   At a speed that is greater than is reasonable or prudent under the
circumstances;
      (2)   In any reckless way so as to endanger a person, or property of
another;
      (3)   Without a functioning muffler complying with of SDCL § 32-15-17, as
may be amended from time to time; or
      (4)   At a speed greater than the posted speed limits in the city.
   (B)   Any snowmobile on the public streets or public property in or of the
city, operated during hours of darkness, shall display a lighted head lamp and
tail lamp in accordance with the requirements of the state and SDCL § 32-17, as
may be amended from time to time, as may have been approved by the Commissioner
of Motor Vehicles in the state at least equivalent to that required for
motorcycles.
   (C)   The operator of a snowmobile on the public streets or public property
in or of the city shall obey all municipal ordinances pertaining to the
operation of a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Any law enforcement officer shall have the authority to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 312, passed 1-14-1975)
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 74.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
   NORMAL AGRICULTURAL OPERATION. Operation of an off-road vehicle by a person
engaged in a reasonably necessary agricultural related activity.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES. Any self-propelled, two or more wheeled vehicle designed
primarily to
be operated on land other than a highway and includes, but is not limited to,
all-terrain vehicles, dirt bikes, dune buggies, and any vehicle whose
Manufacturer's Statement of Origin (MSO) or Manufacturer's Certificate of
Origin (MCO) states that the vehicle is not for highway use. OFF-ROAD VEHICLE
does not include a farm vehicle as defined in SDCL § 32-3-2.4. (Definition
provided by SDCL § 32-20-1(4).)
   UTILITY. Any provider of electric, gas, water, sewer, pipeline, or
telecommunications service.
(Ord. 712, passed 2-3-2025)
§ 74.31 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition. Off-road vehicles shall not be operated in the city
limits of the City of Garretson unless authorized pursuant to §
74.16 or §
74.17 of this code or licensed to be used on a public highway pursuant to SDCL
§ 32-20-13 or §
74.03 of this code and provided that such vehicle operated by a licensed
operator, and only on surfaces maintained as a roadway or alley.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit off-road vehicles from
being operated within the city limits of the City of Garretson:
      (1)   While on private property with the owner’s permission;
      (2)   While engaged in normal agricultural operations;
      (3)   While engaged in official maintenance activities for the City of
Garretson or any utility company; or
      (4)   While having been authorized by the City Council or city
administration.
(Ord. 712, passed 2-3-2025) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Fine for the violation of §§
74.02 through
74.04 is a misdemeanor, $50, and possible revocation of permit.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
74.16 and
74.17 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $50 for
the first offense, and not more than $100 for the second or subsequent offense
within a year.
      (2)   The owner of any snowmobile shall be guilty of violating §
74.16 if any person operates the owner’s snowmobile in violation of §
74.16 with the permission of said owner and, upon conviction, the owner shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $50 for the first offense, and not more
than $100 for any second or subsequent offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other penalty authorized by state law or city
ordinance, each violation of §
74.31 subjects the individual to a fine of $100.
(Ord.49, passed 6-8-1897; Ord. 312, passed 1-14-1975; Res. 2018, passed 7-2-
2018; Ord. 712, passed 2-3-2025)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Permitted truck routes
SCHEDULE I. PERMITTED TRUCK ROUTES.
   The following streets are designated as truck routes and carry a speed limit
of 15 mph for trucks and farm tractors, except as noted below:
   (A)   Fourth Street west from County Highway 105 to Depot Avenue;
   (B)   Main Street between Fourth Street and Fifth Street;
   (C)   Depot Avenue between Second and Fourth Street;
   (D)   Granite Avenue between Second Street and Essex Avenue;
   (E)   Essex Street between Granite Avenue and Railroad Avenue;
   (F)   Railroad Avenue between Essex Street and Dows Street;
   (G)   Dows Street from State Highway 11 east to Center Avenue; and
   (H)   From State Highway 11 east to Main Street (Fifth Street Extension),
except from State Highway 11 east to the Split Rock Bridge, which shall carry a
speed limit of 40 mph for trucks and farm tractors.
(Res. 94-16, passed 7-11-1994)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
95.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals at large
   
90.03   Disturbing the peace
   
90.04   Upkeep; responsibility to reduce public health hazards
   
90.05   Vicious animals
   
90.06   Enforcement officials; right of entry
   
90.07   Impoundment; release
   
90.08   Pound master
   
90.09   Animal control officer; performance of duties
Licensing and Vaccinations
   
90.20   Licensing of animals; fees
   
90.21   Conditions of licensing; tags
   
90.22   Rabies vaccination; documentation
   
90.23   Rabies observation; quarantine; destruction
   
90.24   Duty to report rabies; veterinarians, physicians
Cruelty to Animals
   
90.35   Animal cruelty
   
90.36   Stray, abandoned, and unkept animals
   
90.37   Poisoning animals
   
90.38   Number of pets limited
   
90.39   Disposition of abused animals
Livestock, Exotic, and Wild Animals
   
90.50   Exotic and wild animals
   
90.51   Livestock; definition
   
90.52   Area limits of keeping livestock
Fowl
   
90.65   Generally
   
90.66   Definitions
   
90.67   Revocable permit
   
90.68   Investigation and enforcement
   
90.69   Limitations on the number and keeping of chickens
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, or fish, except humans.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person or persons duly appointed to the position
by the City Council, or an employee of the Sioux Falls Humane Society,
responsible for the animal control within the city.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Facility designated for the care of animals impounded,
whether maintained by the city or a contracted agency.
   AT LARGE. An animal which is not under the control of the owner, possessor,
keeper, agent, servant, or a member of his or her immediate family by a leash,
lead, being tied to a sturdy stake or tree, or is not within an area which is
fenced.
   EXOTIC ANIMALS. Any animal which is ordinarily found in an unconfined state
and is usually not kept as a household pet, including, but not limited to:
lions; tigers; cheetahs; panthers; leopards; cougars; mountain lions; ocelots;
any wild members of the genus felis; lynx; bobcats; foxes; minks; skunks;
raccoons; bears; nonhuman primates; wolves; and coyotes. EXOTIC ANIMAL shall
not include domestic ferrets (Mustelia Furo), livestock, or household pets as
defined herein. Alleged domestication of any EXOTIC ANIMALS shall not affect
its status under this definition.
   FENCE. A FENCE may be visible or invisible. FENCES meant to contain an
unleashed or untied animal must be constructed of materials and in a manner
designed to achieve the purpose of containment of the animal intended to be
kept within the area fenced. An animal which is able to breach the FENCES may
be considered to be at large and may be impounded.
   HOUSEHOLD PET. An animal customarily permitted to be kept in a yard or
dwelling for company or pleasure, including but not limited to: dogs; cats;
gerbils; hamsters; tropical fish; or common house birds; provided that such
animals are not kept to supplement food supplies or for any commercial purpose.
   IMPOUND. The act by an authorized person of taking up and confining an
animal within an animal control facility or shelter.
   LEASH. A cord, thong, or chain not more than ten feet in length by which an
animal is controlled by the person accompanying it off the caretaker’s
property.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes but is not limited to: horses; mules; cattle; bison;
burros; llamas; alpacas; swine; sheep and goats; poultry, which includes but is
not limited to: turkeys; game birds; and ostriches.
   OWNER. A person owning, keeping, or harboring an animal; the occupant of any
premises to which a dog an animal customarily returns is presumed to be the
OWNER.
   PREMISES. The dwelling house and out buildings and the lot or tract of land
on which the same are situated and shall include an automobile or other vehicle
in which the owner of the animal shall be an occupant or of which he or she
shall have control, or in which the animal shall be situated with the consent
of the owner of the vehicle.
   VACCINATION. The injection by a licensed veterinarian of vaccine.
   VETERINARIAN. Any licensed practitioner of veterinary medicine licensed to
practice such profession in the state.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. One that bites or attempts to bite any person, bites another
animal, or in a vicious and terrorizing manner approaches any person in an
apparent attitude of attack, whether or not the attack is consummated.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 674, passed 12-13-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-3, 9-29-12
§ 90.02 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to allow any
animal, owned, controlled, or harbored by any person to run at large on the
streets, alleys, or property of any other person within the city limits.
   (B)   Any person having an animal with in the city limits may allow it to
roam upon his or her property, but shall have it tied, leashed, or fenced upon
his or her property. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow an animal off
the premises without the animal being held in leash. Any animal riding in a
motor vehicle is considered to be on the owner’s property. Violation of this
section is punishable by a fine or by imprisonment, or both.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation having permanent or temporary control
of any animal within the city limits and located upon the animal owner’s
private property, any other private property, public property, or in or upon a
motorized or non-motorized vehicle of any kind shall at all times:
      (1)   Have the animal ties to a stake, post or tree of a size sufficient
to restrict the animal;
      (2)   Have the animal leashed and the leash under the control of a person
who is physically large enough to control the animal; or
      (3)   Have the animal contained by a visible or invisible fence. The
presence of functional invisible fencing on private property shall be made
known by prominent placement of a sign indicating such fencing is present,
which sign shall be readily visible to passers-by. Failure to post notice of
the presence of invisible fencing shall constitute acknowledgment that no such
fence is present and mere failure to post the notice shall not be a defense to
any action brought by the city of violation of this section.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-13
§ 90.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   The owner or custodian of an animal shall not allow the animal to
create a nuisance by making loud noises any time of the night or day.
   (B)   A nuisance shall constitute an ongoing problem over several days and/
or at several intervals throughout a 24-hour period, for any length of time.
The Police Department shall have the authority to use all reasonable means to
abate such nuisance, including, but not limited to, requiring that the owner
make bona fide efforts to quiet his or her animal and impoundment of the animal
when the owner is absent from the premises. A notice advising the owner of the
impoundment shall be left on the premises. No summons nor complaint shall be
issued unless there are at least two or more complaining witnesses from
separate households, who shall have sighed such complaint. The Police
Department or animal control officer that has investigated and documented the
complaint of a single complainant and observed the behavior of the animal
complained of, with regard to its frequent, habitual, and continued loud
noises, may satisfy the requirement for the second complaining witness and may
also testify to his or her observations at trial.
   (C)   An animal or several animals contained upon one property constitute a
nuisance when loud noises are made by the animal or animals, either
consistently throughout the day or night, or, at intervals over the course of a
day or night.
   (D)   (1)   Complaints by citizens about animals violating division (B)
above shall be made in writing, signed by the complaining party, and delivered
or mailed to the Police Department.
      (2)   Upon receipt of two or more signed complaints from separate
households within any 14-day period, the animal control officer or Police
Department shall provide written notice to the residents of the property
complained of that the animal must be quieted, or the animal may be impounded
by the city and the residents cited for violation of this section.
      (3)   One of the two required complaining parties may be the animal
control officer or police officer.
   (E)   If the resident is absent from the premises at the time of impounding
for violation of division (C) above, a notice advising of the impoundment shall
be left on the resident’s premises.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-13
§ 90.04 UPKEEP; RESPONSIBILITY TO REDUCE PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARDS.
   (A)   No person shall create or maintain any condition or operate any
equipment or keep any animal, fowl, pet, or insect under his or her
jurisdiction in a way that is likely to cause the transmission of diseases from
animals or insects to humans.
   (B)   No owner, keeper, caretaker, or attendant of an animal shall allow an
animal to defecate on public or private property other than his or her own. If
such animal does defecate upon public or private property, the owner, keeper,
caretaker, or attendant must immediately and thoroughly clean the fecal matter
from such property. Violation of any part of this section is punishable by a
fine or by imprisonment, or both.
   (C)   Anyone walking an animal on public or private property other than his
or her own must carry with him or her visible means of cleaning up any fecal
matter left by the animal. Animals used in parades or involved in law
enforcement are exempt from this section.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for livestock to be kept within the city limits,
except that such livestock may be kept on property that is classified as AG,
Agricultural District, under the zoning ordinance of the city. This section
shall not apply to livestock kept as a part of any research, educational
institution, stockyard, or temporarily exhibited.
   (E)   Slaughter of animals is prohibited. This prohibition shall not include
slaughter as part of any research, educational instruction, stockyard, or
slaughterhouse.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-11, 9-29-12, 9-29-13, 9-32-1, 9-32-10
§ 90.05 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   An animal may be declared to be vicious by the animal control
officer for the following reasons:
         (a)   An animal which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches
in an apparent attitude of attack, or bites, inflicts injury, assaults, or
otherwise attacks a person or other animal upon any public ground or place;
         (b)   An animal which, on private property, in a vicious or terrifying
manner, approaches in an apparent attitude of attack, or bites, inflects
injury, or otherwise attacks a person or other animal who is on private
property by reason of permission of the owner or occupant of such property, or
who is on private property in the of course of dealing with the owner or
occupant of such property;
         (c)   Any animal of a known propensity or tendency, or otherwise
threatens the safety of human beings or animals; and
         (d)   No animal may be declared vicious if the injury or damage is
sustained to any person or animal who was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting
the animal, or who was trespassing on the property by committing or attempting
to commit a crime.
      (2)   When the animal control officer declares an animal to be vicious,
the officer shall notify the owner of such declaration in writing that such
animal must be registered as a vicious animal. Said notice shall be served
either in person or by mailing such notice by certified mail.
   (B)   The owner of an animal that has been declared vicious shall make
application to the animal control officer to register said vicious animal and
shall comply with the following.
      (1)   The owner of the animal shall notify the animal control officer of
any changes in the following:
         (a)   Ownership of the animal;
         (b)   Name, address, and telephone number of a new owner;
         (c)   Address change of the owner or any change in where the animal is
housed; and/or
         (d)   Any change in the health status of the animal or death of the
animal.
      (2)   If the animal is outdoors and attended, the animal shall be
muzzled, on a leash no longer than six feet, and under control of a person over
18 years of age.
      (3)   If the animal is outdoors and unattended, the animal must be locked
in an escape proof kennel approved by the animal control officer. Minimum
standards shall include the following:
         (a)   Fencing material shall not have openings with a diameter of more
than two inches;
         (b)   Any gates within such pen or structure shall be lockable and of
such design to prevent the entry of children or the escape of the animal;
         (c)   The pen or structure shall have secure sides and top. If the pen
or structure does not have the bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be
embedded in the ground or concrete;
         (d)   The pen or structure shall protect the animal from the elements;
and
         (e)   The pen or structure may be required to have a double exterior
wall to prevent the insertion of fingers or other objects.
      (4)   A universal sign denoting a vicious animal shall be displayed on
the pen or structure visible from the sidewalk/street and adjacent to the
property where the animal is kept.
      (5)   The kennel or structure shall be inspected annually by the animal
control officer. All expenses incurred for said inspection will be the
responsibility of the owner.
      (6)   The owner shall carry $100,000 liability insurance covering the
medical and/or veterinary costs resulting from the vicious animal’s actions or
any other damage the animal may do. Proof of insurance shall be filed with the
animal control officer annually.
      (7)   The owner of the animal shall present proof to the animal control
officer that the animal has been altered to prevent reproduction.
   (C)   The vicious animal shall be impounded by the animal control officer at
the owner’s expense, until such time as the provisions in division (B) above
are complied with.
   (D)   If the conditions in division (B) above are not met within a period of
30 days, the animal shall be euthanized by the Humane Society. All costs
associated with impoundment, compliance with division (C) above herein, and
euthanasia shall be paid by the owner.
      (6)   The owner or caretaker of a vicious animal shall immediately notify
the animal control officer if the animal should become loose or attacks a human
or animal.
      (7)   If the vicious animal is owned by a minor, the parent/guardian of
the minor shall be responsible for the compliance of all the regulations
imposed and liable for all injuries or damage sustained by any person caused by
an attack by the animal.
      (8)   Any vicious animal found off the premises of the owner, other than
provided by this section, shall be seized by the animal control officer and
impounded. If the animal cannot be captured, the animal control office may have
the animal destroyed. If the animal was seen off the property or if it bites a
person or animal, the animal will be delivered to the Humane Society within 24
hours and the owner to appear in court to show cause why this animal should not
be destroyed. The animal control officer shall use such means as necessary to
impound the animal. The owner shall bear all cost of impoundment and board.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12, 9-29-13
§ 90.06 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Any animal control officer appointed by the City Council shall be
defined as an agent of the city, or as an enforcing officer, both of which
shall have power under this title. The Council may choose the Chief of Police
when filling this position.
   (B)   When in immediate pursuit of any animal found to be at large in the
city, an animal control officer may enter upon the premises of the owner of
such offending animal for the purpose of apprehending such animal; provided
that, for the purposes of this section, the word premises shall not be
construed to include the inside of any dwelling.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12
§ 90.07 IMPOUNDMENT; RELEASE.
   (A)   Any animal found running at large contrary to the provisions of this
chapter may be impounded in the city pound or other suitable place. Notice
shall be posted at the residence from which the animal was removed, indicating
the violation, time, date, and where the animal can be reclaimed. The person in
charge upon receiving any such animal shall make a complete registry, entering
the breed, color, and sex of the animal, and whether it is licensed. If
licensed, he or she shall enter the name and address of the owner and the
number of the license tag. As soon as practical after the impounding of any
animal, the owner shall be notified, or if the owner of the animal is unknown,
notice shall be given by posting in the City Finance Officer’s office
describing the animal and the place and time of taking. The owner of any animal
so impounded may reclaim such animal upon payment of the license fee, if
unpaid, and all costs and charges incurred by the city for the impounding,
notice, and maintenance of said animal. The Council is empowered to set fees.
It shall be the duty of the person in charge to keep all animals so impounded
for a period of 72 hours. If at the expiration of three 72 hours from the date
of notice to the owner or the posting of notice such animal shall not have been
redeemed by the owner, then any other person may, upon compliance with the
terms of this chapter, redeem such animal from the pound and become the lawful
owner thereof. If no person redeems the animal, it may, at the discretion of
the animal control officer, be destroyed or adopted.
   (B)   No person shall unlawfully release, or assist in releasing, any animal
from the city impoundment facility. A violation of this section is punishable
by a fine or by imprisonment, or both.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3, 9-29-12, 9-29-13
§ 90.08 POUND MASTER.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to provide for the appointment of
animal control offices for the enforcement of this chapter, for the impounding,
destroying, and disposal of animals, and for a schedule of fees to be charged
for services rendered, and for a monthly amount to be paid by the city for this
service.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12
§ 90.09 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES.
   No person shall hinder, delay, or obstruct any animal control officer or his
or her assistant or when engaged in capturing, securing, or impounding any
animal or animals.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 40-2-7
LICENSING AND VACCINATIONS
§ 90.20 LICENSING OF ANIMALS; FEES.
   (A)   All animals kept, harbored, or maintained in the city shall be
licensed and registered if over six months of age. Animal licenses shall be
issued by the Finance Officer upon payment of a fee in an amount to be
established by resolution of the City Council. The owner shall state, at the
time application is made for such license and upon such forms as the Finance
Officer may provide for such purpose, the owner’s name and address, and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each animal owned or kept by him or her, and
present to the Finance Officer a record by a licensed veterinarian that the
animal has been vaccinated for rabies, as provided hereafter. This section
includes, but is not limited to, dogs and cats. Violation of this is punishable
by a fine or by imprisonment, or both.
   (B)   Pursuant to the ordinance of the city providing that the City Council
shall establish the fees and requirements to obtain a pet license for the city,
said fees and requirements of pet owner within the city, to be kept on file at
the office of the City Finance Officer, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Each pet owner must provide:
         (a)   Certification of up-to date vaccination records; and
         (b)   Proof of spay or neuter.
      (2)   The pet licensing fees shall be as follows.
         (a)   For spay or neutered pets, the licensing fee will be $5 per
year, per pet.
         (b)   For non-spay or non-neutered pets, the licensing fee will be $10
per year, per pet.
      (3)   Pet licensing is required to be renewed each year by June 1 and is
valid until May 31 the following year.
      (4)   Failure to renew pet licenses by June 1 will increase fees to $10
per pet, per year for spay and neutered pets, and $20 per pet, per year for
non-spay or non-neutered pets.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016; Res. 2017-06, passed 4-3-2017; Ord. 654, passed 4-
5-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 90.21 CONDITIONS OF LICENSING; TAGS.
   (A)   As a condition to the issuance of an animal license, the person making
such application shall furnish a certificate from a licensed veterinarian that
the animal sought to be licensed has been vaccinated for and made immune to
rabies within the previous year.
   (B)   Upon payment of the license fee, as set by resolution of the City
Council, the Finance Officer shall issue to the owner a tag for each animal so
licensed. Every owner shall be required to provide each animal with a collar to
which the license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag
are constantly worn. Animal tags shall not be transferrable from one animal to
another and no refunds shall be made on any animal license fee because of death
of the animal or the owner’s leaving the city before expiration of the license
period. Violation of this section is punishable by a fine or by imprisonment,
or both.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§  9-29-3, 9-29-12
§ 90.22 RABIES VACCINATION; DOCUMENTATION.
   (A)   On or before July 1 of each year, every owner shall have his or her
animals vaccinated against rabies, except in cases where an animal shall have
been properly vaccinated with the type of vaccine known as the modified live
virus, chick embryo origin, or another type of vaccine having a longer
immunization period. The vaccination required by this section need not be
repeated during the time for which the animal is effectively immunized as
determined by the licensed veterinarian granting a vaccination certificate
under this chapter.
   (B)   Any owner who has had his or her animal vaccinated against rabies in
another state or municipality by a licensed veterinarian therein shall not be
required to have such animal re-vaccinated during the current year when the
animal is brought into this municipality; provided, that the requirements of
such state or municipality under which the vaccination was made were of a
standard which is equal or greater than those required by this section, and
further provided that such animal wears a tag affixed to its collar or harness
bearing the date of such vaccination.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12, 9-34-1
§ 90.23 RABIES OBSERVATION; QUARANTINE; DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   If an animal is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by an
animal suspected of having rabies or has bitten any individual who is not a
member of the owner’s family, such animal shall be confined and shall be placed
under the observation of a licensed veterinarian, animal control officer, or
another agent as specified by the city at the expense of the owner for a period
of at least ten days or as ordered by said licensed veterinarian, animal
control officer, or another agent of the city. The owner of any animal shall
notify the police of the fact that his or her animal has been exposed to rabies
or has bitten an individual, and the animal control officer shall have such
animal removed from the owner’s premises and placed under observation in the
city pound or the Humane Society for a period of ten days at the expense of the
owner.
   (B)   Whenever the governing body of the city or the animal control officer
thereof has reason to believe that there is danger that rabies may spread
within the municipality, the City Council shall publish a notice requiring
owners of animals, and other specified animals in the area designated, to
confine the animals for such period as may be necessary to prevent the spread
of rabies. The City Council shall have the authority to quarantine, for a
period not less than six months, any animal bitten by another animal known or
suspected to have rabies, and to quarantine, for a period not to exceed ten
days, any animals which have bitten a human being or which exhibit symptoms of
rabies. The animal shall be held in a kennel as specified by the Police
Department. If an animal that has bitten another person should become ill or
die within the quarantine period, the owner shall be financially responsible
for the expense of the animal being tested for rabies by a proper laboratory.
All confinement imposed shall be of sufficient strength to hold such animal
securely.
   (C)   If it is not reasonable under the circumstances to impound or to
attempt to seize an animal reasonably believed to be rabid, the police officer
or animal control officer has permission to destroy the animal immediately in
any humane manner.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12, 9-29-13, 9-32-1
§ 90.24 DUTY TO REPORT RABIES; VETERINARIANS, PHYSICIANS.
   (A)   Any person who shall suspect that any animal with in the city limits
is infected with rabies shall report said animal to the animal control officer
or the Police Department.
   (B)   Licensed veterinarians receiving information or reports of suspected
rabies in wild animals or domestic animals shall report such information to the
Police Department or animal control officer.
   (C)   Physicians, immediately upon treatment of any person bitten by an
animal, shall report such information to the Police Department or animal
control officer.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-32-1
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
§ 90.35 ANIMAL CRUELTY.
   No person shall willfully or negligently mistreat, abuse, or neglect in a
cruel or inhumane manner any animal or fowl.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-11
§ 90.36 STRAY, ABANDONED, AND UNKEPT ANIMALS.
   No person shall harbor or keep any stray animals. Animals known to be strays
shall be reported to the animal control officer and/or police officer
immediately.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-12
§ 90.37 POISONING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously administer,
or cause to be administered, poison of any sort whatsoever to any animal with
the intent to injure or destroy such animal, or to willfully or maliciously
place any poison or poisoned food where the same is accessible to any such
animal.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-11
§ 90.38 NUMBER OF PETS LIMITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to have or to keep more than five domestic
pets over the age of six months, except birds and fish, on any lot or premises
in the city, unless such person residing on or in the lot or premises has a
valid kennel license issued by the city. The city humane society, veterinarian
officers, and retail pet stores are exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-12, 9-32-1
§ 90.39 DISPOSITION OF ABUSED ANIMALS.
   In cases where an animal or animals have been seized by the animal control
officer based upon cruelty, neglect, or abandonment, such animal may be adopted
to another owner or humanely euthanized, there by extinguishing all property
rights of the existing owner following the procedures as herein after provided.
   (A)   Upon seizure of the animal or animals, the animal control officer
shall serve notice upon the existing owner, if the identity of said existing
owner is known, informing said existing owner of the animal control officer’s
intent to of the animal.
   (B)   The existing owner shall have 72 hours to:
      (1)   Declare in writing and deliver to the animal shelter keeping said
animal or animals:
         (a)    Notice of said existing owner’s intent to maintain ownership of
the animal or animals and to object to the adoption or euthanasia thereof; and
         (b)    Notice that said existing owner will pay when due all
impoundment, board, and veterinary costs until such time as the animal or
animals shall be released to said existing owner or be adopted or euthanized.
      (2)   Pay to the animal control officer all impoundment, board, and
veterinary costs up to the date of the owner’s declaration of intent to
maintain his or her ownership of said animal or animals to the animal control
shelter.
   (C)   Upon notification of said existing owner’s intent to maintain
ownership of the animal or animals and the existing owner’s objection to the
adoption of euthanasia of the animal or animals, said existing owner shall
continue said payments to the animal control shelter for impoundment, board,
and veterinary costs on a weekly basis until such time as the animal or animals
shall be released to said existing owner, or be adopted or euthanized. If,
after 72 hours, the existing owner or the animal of animals fails to declare
the hereinbefore stated intent, or if the existing owner fails to make any
payment in a timely manner, or if the identity of said existing owner is
unknown, or notification to said existing owner cannot be made, ownership of
the animal or animals will revert to the animal shelter.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-11,9-29-12, 9-29-13, 9-32-1
LIVESTOCK, EXOTIC, AND WILD ANIMALS
§ 90.50 EXOTIC AND WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No exotic animal, as defined by this chapter, may be housed or kept
except for those legally within the city at the time of the effective date of
this chapter. Any exotic animals that are housed or kept prior to the effective
date of this chapter must be registered with the Police Department within 90
days subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. Facilities shall be maintained
for these animals grandfathered in to ensure protection of the public and
humane care of the animal. This provision shall not apply to any circus or
exotic animal exhibitor display that is validly and legally operating within
the city for a specific and limited time period.
   (B)   No person shall allow any exotic or wild animal to run at large
unattended.
   (C)   Any exotic or wild animal that is at large will be impounded by the
animal control officer. If the animal control officer cannot capture the
animal, the animal may be destroyed.
   (D)   The owner shall bear all costs of impoundment, board, and euthanasia
of the animal.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-11,9-29-12, 9-29-13, 9-32-1
§ 90.51 LIVESTOCK; DEFINITION.
   The term LIVESTOCK shall mean any animal which is raised for normal
agricultural purposes, including, but not exclusively: hogs; cattle; sheep;
horses; and the like.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016)
Statutory reference:
    Related provisions, see SDCL § 2-14-4
§ 90.52 AREA LIMITS OF KEEPING LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to keep livestock of any kind within city
limits except temporarily or in connection with the buying or selling of the
same.
   (B)   Under the exception laid out in division (A) above, whenever a person
keeps livestock within city limits, he or she will maintain a premises for said
livestock in a healthy manner, keeping the area sanitary by controlling noxious
odors, flies, or other pests.
   (C)   Anyone who has livestock under the division (A) above exception shall
keep the same from running at large.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-12-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
    Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-3, 9-29-12, 9-32-1, 9-40-28
FOWL
§ 90.65 GENERALLY.
   No person shall keep any fowl, including, but not limited to, roosters,
ducks, geese, turkeys, pheasants, quail, partridges, guineas, or other like
domestic fowl within the city limits, except for chickens kept within the
provisions of this subchapter. Chickens are not considered to be a household
pet under §
90.01.
(Ord. 675, passed 12-13-2021) §
90.99
§ 90.66 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BROODING. The period of chicken growth when supplemental heat must be
provided due to the bird’s inability to generate enough body heat.
   CHICK. A baby chicken not more than six weeks old.
   CHICKEN. A domesticated bird of the order of Galliformes in the genus of
Gallus (chickens) that serves as a source of eggs.
   COCKEREL. A young male chicken.
   COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of chickens permitted by this
subchapter.
   EXERCISE YARD. A larger fenced area that provides space for exercise and
foraging for the birds when supervised.
   HEN. A female chicken.
   OFFICER. Any person designated by the City Administrator as an enforcement
officer.
   ROOSTER. A male chicken.
   RUN. A fully-enclosed and covered area attached to a coop where the chickens
can roam unsupervised.
(Ord. 675, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 90.67 REVOCABLE PERMIT.
   Upon the holding of a permit issued by the city, residents may keep and
maintain brooding chicks and hens for egg in a clean and sanitary manner that
is not a nuisance to or detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare
of the community. The cost of the permit shall be established by the City
Council. Permit must be renewed annually. No odors related to the chickens
shall cross property lines. The keeping and maintenance of brooding chicks and
hens is permitted to all residents who comply with all requirements,
limitations, or prohibitions of this subchapter. Such permit may be revoked if
the person holding the permit refuses or fails to comply with this chapter or
with any state or local law governing cruelty to animals or the keeping of
animals. Any revocation shall be effective after ten days following written
notice thereof to the person or persons keeping or maintaining such chickens.
Any person whose permit is revoked within ten days thereafter shall humanely
dispose of all chickens being owned, kept, or harbored by such person.
(Ord. 675, passed 12-13-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.68 INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Officers designated by the City Administrator shall have authority in
the investigation and enforcement of this subchapter, and no person shall
interfere with, hinder, or molest any such officer in the exercise of such
powers. Such officers shall make investigations as is necessary.
   (B)   Residents keeping chickens must agree to allow city employee or
officer to enter property for inspection purposes.
(Ord. 675, passed 12-13-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.69 LIMITATIONS ON THE NUMBER AND KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   (A)   Chickens may only be kept within areas of the city zoned to permit
single-family dwellings.
   (B)   No more than six hens shall be housed or kept on any one residential
lot that is less than one acre in size. Residential lots that are one acre in
size or larger are allowed to house up to eight hens. Residents may possess a
like number of brooding chicks intended for the cyclical replacement of hens,
but not for the purpose of sale or resale.
   (C)   Rooster and chicken breeding are prohibited. Cockerels must be culled
from broods when identified.
   (D)   A coop and a reasonably satisfactory exercise yard, run, or yard
fencing is required to house chicken(s). Chicken facilities must be constructed
and maintained to meet the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Located in the rear or side yard;
      (2)   The setback required for the coop is five feet from the rear and
side property lines;
      (3)   Coop construction and materials must be adequate to prevent access
by rodents;
      (4)   Coops must be maintained in good repair;
      (5)   Coop size may not exceed 30 square feet;
      (6)   The run size may not exceed 60 square feet. Fencing shall prevent
the entry into or escape of animals into the run;
      (7)   Fencing materials for the run shall not have openings with a
diameter of more than two inches; in case of a wood fence, the gaps shall not
be more than two inches;
      (8)   Coops shall be kept at least 25 feet from the door or window of any
dwelling of an occupied structure other than the owner’s dwelling;
      (9)   Manure storage shall be kept 20 feet from streams, tributaries,
ditches, storm water management facilities, drop inlets, or other storm
drainage areas that would allow fecal matter to enter any city storm drainage
system or stream. Dumping chicken manure into the city’s storm drainage system
is prohibited;
      (10)   Chickens must not be housed in a residential house or an attached
or detached garage, except for brooding purposes only; and
      (11)   All premises on which chickens are kept or maintained shall be
kept clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract rodents. The
coop and its surrounding area must be cleaned frequently enough to control
odor. Manure and coop waste and food shall be picked up every 24 hours,
thereafter, kept in an airtight and rodent proof container, and properly
disposed of thereafter on a routine basis.
   (E)   Chickens shall not be kept in such a manner as to constitute a
nuisance to the occupants of adjacent property.
   (F)   Dead chickens must be disposed of within 48 hours after death. Legal
forms of chicken carcass disposal include burial and off-site incineration or
rendering.
   (G)   All grain and food stored for the use of the chickens shall be kept in
a rodent proof container.
   (H)   Chickens shall be kept so that visibility is substantially obstructed
at a height of five feet above ground level to the traveling public or
surrounding property owners.
(Ord. 675, passed 12-13-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   The schedule of charges shall be as follows.
   (A)   Fines for animals running at large.
      (1)   The fine for animals with a current city animal license will be
$25.
      (2)   The fine for subsequent offenses for animals with a current city
animal license can be increased to a maximum of $100 for each additional
offense.
      (3)   The fine for animals without a current city animal license will be
$25 plus a licensing fee of $10 if current vaccination verification is
immediately available, however, if current vaccination verification is not
immediately available, the animal will be impounded and impoundment charges
will be applied.
   (B)   Fines and impoundment charges for animals requiring impoundment.
      (1)   The impoundment charge for the first offense will be $50.
      (2)   The impoundment charge for subsequent offenses can be increased to
a maximum of $100 for each additional offense.
   (C)   Fowl.
      (1)   Any person violating §§
90.65 through
90.69 shall reimburse the city for all costs borne by the city to enforce the
conditions of this article including but not limited to the collection and
humane disposal of chickens.
      (2)   Any person having a nuisance violation or building permit violation
on said property within the previous 12 months will not be issued a permit or
it may be revoked.
      (3)   All chickens of any person violating §§
90.65 through
90.69 may be forfeited to the city and may be removed and euthanized and
properly buried or otherwise disposed of in a sanitary manner.
(Res. 94-29, passed 11-14-1994; Res. 2017-06, passed 4-3-2017; Ord. 675, passed
12-13-2021)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Rebuilding and repair
   
91.02   Curb, gutter, and blacktop cost share
   
91.03   Street dedications and width requirements
   
91.04   Obstruction of roadways and public walks
Snow Removal
   
91.15   Duty to notify removal by city
   
91.16   Disposal of snow and ice; violations
   
91.17   Mailboxes damaged by snow removal equipment
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 REBUILDING AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary to construct,
rebuild, or repair (except as hereinafter provided) any sidewalks, it shall
notify all owners and occupants of any lots adjoining such sidewalks requiring
the construction and repair, within a time limit at the said owner’s expense.
The notice shall contain what work is to be done, and the character, and it may
be general as to the owner or occupants, but must be specific as to the
descriptions of the lots or parcels of land in front of which sidewalks are to
be built, rebuilt, or repaired. The time specified in such notice shall be not
less than 15 days from the time of first publication.
   (B)   Prior to commencement of repair, the city appointed Building Inspector
shall verify the specifications of the forms and issue a building permit for
the work to be completed. The building permit fee shall be set by resolution by
the City Council. Once work is completed, the Building Inspector will conduct a
final inspection. If the sidewalk repair, rebuild, or installation meet the
said requirements, the Building Inspector may then sign off on the permit.
   (C)   If such work is not done by the property owner and the sidewalks are
not built, repaired, or rebuilt in the manner and with the time prescribed in
said notice, the City Council may order the same to be done by any such person
they contract with and under the direction of the City Council. Upon completion
of the new construction or repair/rebuild sidewalk, the property owner has 30
days to pay the balance in full at City Hall. Once the 30 days has expired, an
assessment will be filed with County Auditor’s office against the property for
the expense plus interest to construct or repair/rebuild the said sidewalk.
   (D)   The City Council may provide by ordinance provisions for the repairing
of sidewalks. Any owner of real property who shall fail to keep in repair their
sidewalks when notified, shall be held liable to the city for any damage caused
by such neglect.
(Ord. 621, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 91.02 CURB, GUTTER, AND BLACKTOP COST SHARE.
   (A)   (1)   When curb, gutter, and/or blacktop is installed for the first
time on existing developed streets within the corporate city limits, the
current policy is that the adjoining property owner shall pay 100% of the curb
and gutter cost and/or blacktop and blacktop laying costs only.
      (2)   This only applies to streets that are developed as of the signing
of this section. All other costs associated with such a project, including
Engineering costs and any other incidental costs as there might be, shall be
paid by the city.
   (B)   When a street is already paved and curb and gutter is installed for
the first time, the street shall be redone according to the engineering
recommendations. This section shall not apply where special funds have been
designed and are available for specific curb, gutter, and/or blacktop
installation.
(Res. passed 5-10-1993)
§ 91.03 STREET DEDICATIONS AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS.
   The following conditions shall govern the designation and minimum street
right-of-way and roadway widths.
   (A)   A minimum width of highways, arterial streets, residential collector
streets, local residential streets, and marginal access to be dedicated to the
city shall be indicated on the Major Street Plan and, where not shown thereon,
shall not be less than as follows:
 
Street Types    Minimum Dedicated Right-of-Way Width
Alleys          20 feet
Arterial        100 feet
Collector       80 feet
Marginal access 52 feet
Minor           66 feet
 
   (B)   In underdeveloped or vacant areas, the Council shall have the
discretion to identify or classify a street as a collector street.
   (C)   Subdivisions which abut, or include within the proposed area to be
subdivided, any highway or arterial street, shall provide:
      (1)   A marginal access street;
      (2)   Reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a non-access
reservation along the rear property lines;
      (3)   Deep lots with rear service drives; or
      (4)   Other treatment as may be necessary to adequately protect
residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
   (D)   Minimum roadway widths:
 
Street Types    Pavement Width (Measured from Front Face of Gutter)
Arterial        60 feet
Collector       44 feet
Marginal access 26 feet
Minor           32 feet
 
(Ord. 426, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 11-3 and 11-4 generally
§ 91.04 OBSTRUCTION OF ROADWAYS AND PUBLIC WALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to encumber or obstruct any
street, public walk, alley, or other public grounds by placing thereon any
lumber, wood, stone or other material thereby interrupting and discommoding the
use thereof for passage or travel; and also it shall be unlawful for any person
to leave place or stand any wagon, sleigh, or other vehicle or any horse, mule,
or other animal on any public street, alley, or other public grounds so as to
interrupt and obstruct the use of the same for passage and travel; and also it
shall be unlawful for any person to lead, drive, or ride any horse, mule, or
other animal, whether attached to a vehicle or not, upon or across any
sidewalk, except at a crossing constructed in the same.
   (B)   It shall be lawful for the owner or occupant of premises adjoining any
sidewalk to construct and maintain a crossing therein, provided that said
crossing shall be at the surface height of said sidewalk and the same shall be
constructed and maintained in the manner and of such material as the Committee
on Streets shall direct.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person who shall deposit any manure, dead
animal, or any animal or vegetable matter within the corporate limits of the
city or shall deposit any dirt, ashes, rubbish, or manure on any street, walk,
or public grounds or shall fill up or otherwise obstruct the free course of
water in any sewer, drain or gutter, or shall dig, remove, or carry away any
stone, sand, earth, or ground from any street, alley, or public ground, or
cause the same to be done without permission from the City Council.
   (D)   It shall be lawful for any person or persons for the purpose of
repairing or erecting building or buildings to occupy a reasonable portion of
the street in front of his or her or their premises with building material
necessary for erecting or repairing the same, but said person or persons shall
cause the excess of such material and accumulated rubbish to remove from said
portion of the street whenever it becomes unnecessary for the same to remain
therefor the aforesaid purpose of repairing or building.
(Ord. 6, passed 11-27-1891) Penalty, see §
91.99
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 91.15 DUTY TO NOTIFY REMOVAL BY CITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor or city representatives to notify
all owners or person in possession of property abutting on sidewalks to keep
such sidewalks free from snow and ice and to remove the same within 24 hours
after the termination of every snowfall or accumulation of snow or ice. Such
notice need not be given personally, but may be given generally through the
official newspaper of the city. Such notice shall be published in the official
newspaper twice a year, the first being on or around October 1 and the second
to be published consecutively thereafter. The notice shall provide that each
owner or person in possession is required to keep the sidewalks in front of his
or her premises free and clear from snow and ice between the October 15 and
April 1 of each year.
   (B)   The notice shall provide that if the owner or person in charge fails
to remove the snow or ice within 24 hours of the termination of snowfall or
accumulation of snow or ice, the city will cause the snow or ice to be removed
and charge the costs thereof to the abutting property.
(Ord. 653, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 91.16 DISPOSAL OF SNOW AND ICE; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   lt shall be the duty of the property owner, tenant, or person in
possession of any public or private driveway, parking lot, parking area, or
boulevard to dispose of accumulated snow and ice upon such property in such
manner that any snow and ice when removed shall not be deposited upon any
sidewalk or within or upon any public street or alley or in a manner that will
obstruct or interfere with the passage or vision of vehicle or pedestrian
traffic.
   (B)   Snow and ice which is removed from a sidewalk, parking lot, driveway,
or other area shall be placed on the abutting boulevard or yard. It is unlawful
for any person to dispose of or move snow and ice from private property or
abutting public areas onto a public street, alley or sidewalk. An exception
applies to certain defined properties located within the CB, Central Business
District, that are adjacent to Main Avenue between Fifth Street and Second
Street. These defined properties are granted the authority to move such
accumulated sidewalk snow and ice onto the abutting city street prior to the
complete removal and clearing of snow and ice by the grading of such snow and
ice away from the curb or by the picking up and carrying away such snow and ice
by the city or its private contractors.
      (1)   Mailboxes. It shall be the duty of the property owner, tenant, or
person in possession of any property upon which any mailbox is affixed to keep
the immediate area around such mailbox free from snow and ice in such a manner
so as not to obstruct or interfere with the delivery or collection of the
United States mail, and to remove or cause to be removed all accumulation of
snow or ice within 24 hours after every fall or accumulation of snow or ice.
Snow and ice deposited around any mailbox in the street removal process shall
be removed within 24 hours of being deposited.
      (2)   Fire hydrants. It shall be the duty of the property owner, tenant,
or person in possession of any property upon which any fire hydrant is affixed
to keep the immediate area around such fire hydrant free from, snow and ice in
such a manner so as not to obstruct or interfere with access to the fire
hydrant, and to remove or cause to be removed all accumulation of snow or ice
within 24 hours after every fall or accumulation of snow or ice. Snow and ice
must be removed from at least a three-foot radius around any fire hydrant, and
at least a two-foot wide path must be cleared between the fire hydrant and the
nearest city street. Snow and ice deposited around any fire hydrant in the
street removal process shall be removed within 24 hours of being deposited.
      (3)   Sanding sidewalks. In the event that snow or ice on a sidewalk have
become so hard that such accumulation cannot be removed without the likelihood
of damage to the sidewalk, the owner, tenant, or person in possession charged
with the removal of such accumulation shall, within 24 hours, cause enough sand
or other abrasive to be put on the sidewalk to make travel thereon reasonably
safe and shall then, as soon thereafter as weather permits, remove or cause to
be removed all accumulation of snow or ice within 24 hours.
   (C)   If the owner or person in charge of the lot fails or refuses to remove
the snow or ice from the sidewalks, the city shall have the snow or ice removed
and charge the costs thereof against the abutting property. The sum shall be
established by the City Council and on file in the Finance Officer’s office for
all sidewalks. If property owner continues to refuse or fail to remove snow and
ice from sidewalks, a fine shall be issued by the city in addition to the
removal costs. All costs and fines are the responsibility of the property
owner. The fine shall be set by resolution by the City Council. Failure to pay
removal costs and fines will result in an assessment against the property.
(Ord. 653, passed 2-3-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 MAILBOXES DAMAGED BY SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The city does on its own or hires contractors to remove snow from the
public streets.
   (B)   Sometimes mailboxes are damaged by snow removal equipment, snow plow,
or by the snow from the plow being thrown into the boulevard through no fault
of the city.
   (C)   The city will pay up to $40 to repair or replace a mailbox that had
previously been installed to the U.S. Post Office specifications as on file at
City Hall, inspected, and that the mailbox has been damaged as stated above.
Upon a determination that these criteria have been met and proof of the
replacement cost has been provided, the city will issue the reimbursement
amount, but will not physically purchase or replace a mailbox.
(Res. 2012-11, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person offending against any of the provisions contained in
§
91.04(A) shall pay a fine of not less than $5 and costs of suit for each
offense.
      (2)   Persons found in conviction of the acts set forth in §
91.04(C) without permission from City Council shall pay a fine of not less than
$5 and costs of each offense.
      (3) Any of such person or persons neglect or refuse to remove such excess
or rubbish within forty eight hours after being notified by the City Marshal,
to remove the same, then the City Marshal may cause the same to be removed at
the expense of such person or persons and in addition thereto upon a conviction
of offending against the provisions of §
91.04(D) shall pay a fine of not less than $5 and costs.
      (4)   The police justice may, in default of any fine and costs imposed by
him or her upon any person for violating any of the provisions contained in §
91.04, commit such person to jail for not more than 20 days.
   (C)   Violation of §§
91.15(B) through
91.16(C) is a misdemeanor, and any persons convicted of such shall pay a fine
of $25, plus a $50 removal fee.
(Ord. 6, passed 11-27-1891; Res. 2020-06, passed 3-2-2020)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practices; discrimination; violations
   
92.04   Fair Housing Board
   
92.05   Filing complaints
   
92.06   Hearings, enforcement, and remedies
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city and the purpose of this
chapter, in the exercise of its police and regulatory powers for the protection
of the public safety, for the health, morals, safety, and welfare of the
persons in and residing in the city, and for the maintenance and promotion of
commerce, industry, and good government in the city, to secure all persons
living and/or working or desiring to live and/or work in the city a fair
opportunity to purchase, lease, rent, or occupy real estate without
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status,
physical limitations, source of income, family responsibilities, educational
association, sexual orientation, or national origin.
(Ord. 366, passed 2-1-1982)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGE. Chronological age.
   BOARD. The Fair Housing Board.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Garretson.
   EDUCATION ASSOCIATION. The state of being enrolled or not being enrolled at
any educational institution.
   FAMILY RESPONSIBILITIES. The state of being or the potential to become a
contributor to the support of an individual or individuals in a dependent
relationship.
   LEASE. Includes sublease, assignment, and rental, and includes any contract
to do any of the foregoing in this definition.
   LENDING INSTITUTION. Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan
association, or any other person in the business of lending money or
guaranteeing loans, any person of obtaining, arranging, or negotiating loans or
guarantees as agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying or
selling loans or instruments for the payment of money which are secured by
title to or a security interest in real estate.
   MARITAL STATUS. The state of being married, unmarried, divorced, a widow, or
widower.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN. Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
   OWNER. Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, owns any beneficial
interest in any real property, who holds legal or equitable title to shares of,
or who holds any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative which owns
any real property.
   PANEL. A panel comprised of three or more members of the Board, designated
by the Chairman of the Board, to investigate and to attempt to conciliate a
complaint filed or made under §§
92.04 through
92.06.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, legal representatives, mutual companies, unincorporated
organizations, trusts, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
   PHYSICAL LIMITATION. A limitation of physical capabilities unrelated to
one’s ability to safely perform the work involved in jobs or positions
available to such person for hire or promotion or a limitation of physical
capabilities unrelated to one’s ability to acquire, rent, and maintain
property. PHYSICAL LIMITATION includes, but is not limited to, blindness or
partial sightedness, deafness or hearing impairment, muteness, partial or total
absence of physical member, speech impairment, and motor impairment.
   PURCHASE. Includes any contract to purchase.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT. Any real estate broker, any real estate salesperson, and
any other person who, as employee or agent or otherwise, engages in the
management or operation of any real property.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person licensed as a real estate broker in
accordance with the provisions of SDCL Chapter 36-21A, or required thereby to
be so licensed.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION. The purchase, sale, exchange, rental, or lease of
any real property, or an option to do any of the foregoing.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, or structure, or any
part thereof, within the city limits.
   SALE. Any contract to sell, exchange, or to convey, transfer, or assign
legal or equitable title to, or a beneficial interest in real property.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION. Any male or female homosexuality, heterosexuality, or
bisexuality, by preference or practice.
   SOURCE OF INCOME. Any legal source from which a person obtains money.
(Ord. 366, passed 2-1-1982)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES; DISCRIMINATION; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Discriminatory terms. It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this chapter for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent,
owner, or other person to sell or rent, or offer to sell or rent a real
property on terms, conditions, or privileges that discriminate between persons
because of race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical
limitations, source of income, family responsibilities, educational
association, sexual orientation, or national origin.
   (B)   Refusal to negotiate. It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and
a violation of this chapter for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent,
owner, or other person to refuse to negotiate for, enter into, or perform any
sale or lease of any real property because of the race, color, religion, sex,
age, marital status, physical limitations, source of income, family
responsibilities, educational association, sexual orientation, or national
origin.
   (C)   Withholding housing. It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and
a violation of this chapter for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent,
owner, or other person to represent to any person that any real property is not
available for inspection, purchase, sale, lease, or occupancy when in fact it
is so available, or otherwise to hold real property from any person because of
race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical limitations, source
of income, family responsibilities , educational association, sexual
orientation, or national origin.
   (D)   Advertisements, signs, and notices. It shall be an unlawful real
estate practice and a violation of this chapter for any real estate broker,
salesperson, agent, owner, or other person to publish or circulate a statement,
advertisement, or notice or to post or erect any sign or notice upon any real
property indicating any intent to sell or lease any real property in a manner
that is unlawful under §§
92.04 through
92.06.
   (E)   Refusal of offers. It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and a
violation of this chapter for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent, or
other person to refuse to receive or to fail to transmit a bona fide offer for
the purchase, sale, exchange, or lease of any real property because of the
race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical limitations, source
of income, family responsibilities, educational association, sexual
orientation, or national origin of person making such an offer.
   (F)   Discrimination in lending. It shall be an unlawful real estate
practice and a violation of this chapter for any lending institution to refuse
to negotiate for, enter into, or perform any agreement to lend or guarantee the
loan of funds or in making, agreeing to make, arranging, or negotiating any
loan or guarantee of funds for the purpose of financing the purchase or sale,
construction, lease, rehabilitation, improvement, renovation, or repair of any
real property, or to offer or agree to terms, conditions, or privileges that
discriminate between persons because of race, color, religion, sex, age,
marital status, physical limitations, source of income, family
responsibilities, educational association, sexual orientation, or national
origin of any party to such agreement, or of any member of the family of any
such party, or of the residents of the area in which such real property is
located.
   (G)   Representation. It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and a
violation of this chapter for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent,
owner, or other person, for the purpose of inducing any other person to enter
into a real estate transaction with such person, his or her principal, or his
or her agent, to:
      (1)   Represent that a change has occurred, will occur, or may occur with
respect to race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical
limitations, source of income, family responsibilities, educational
association, sexual orientation, or national origin in the composition of the
owners or occupants in any block, neighborhood, or area in which the real
property (which is the subject of the real estate transaction) is located; or
      (2)   Represent that a change with respect to the race, color, religion,
sex, age, marital status, physical limitations, source of income, family
responsibilities, educational association, sexual orientation, or national
origin in the composition of the owners or occupants in any block,
neighborhood, or area will result in the lowering of property values, or in an
increase in criminal or antisocial behavior, or in a decline in the quality of
schools in such blocks, neighborhood, or area.
   (H)   Other violations. It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and a
violation of this chapter for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent,
owner, or any other person to:
      (1)   Aid, abet, incite, or coerce a person to commit an unlawful real
estate practice under this chapter;
      (2)   Purchase, lease, or rent real estate for residential purposes, or
authorize and direct one in his or her employment or on his or her behalf to do
so, or solicit any other person to do so on his or her behalf for the specific
reason and intention of preventing any other person or persons from purchasing,
renting, leasing, or occupying such residential real estate by reason of the
race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical limitations, source
of income, family responsibilities, educational association, sexual
orientation, or nation origin of such person or persons;
      (3)   Deliberately and knowingly refuse examination of copies of any
listing of real property in the city to any person because of race, color,
religion, sex, age, marital status, physical limitations, source of income,
family responsibilities, educational association, sexual orientation, or
national origin;
      (4)   Enter into a listing agreement which prohibits the inspection,
sale, lease, or occupancy of real property to any person because of race,
color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical limitations, source of
income, family responsibilities, educational association, sexual orientation,
or national origin;
      (5)   Knowingly and willfully interfere with the performance of a duty or
the exercise of a power by the Board or one of its members or representatives;
and/or
      (6)   Willfully obstruct or prevent or attempt to obstruct or prevent a
person from complying with the provisions of this chapter or an order issued
thereunder.
(Ord. 366, passed 2-1-1982)
§ 92.04 FAIR HOUSING BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Board which shall consist of
the City Council and Mayor.
   (B)   The Board shall have and exercise the following duties and powers:
      (1)   To act to eliminate unlawful real estate practices that violate
this chapter;
      (2)   To act to assure to persons living, working, or desiring to live or
work in the city an opportunity to purchase, lease, or occupy real property
without discrimination because of race, color, religion, age, sex, marital
status, physical limitations, source of income, family responsibilities,
educational association, sexual orientation, or national origin;
      (3)   To receive and investigate complaints alleging unlawful real estate
practices in violation of this chapter;
      (4)   To attempt elimination of unfair real estate practices by
conciliation, conference, and/or persuasion;
      (5)   To hold public hearings in the event that its efforts under
division (B)(4) above are ineffective, or where it deems that such efforts will
be ineffective;
      (6)   To instruct the City Attorney to commence appropriate court action
against those the Board has found to be in violation of this chapter;
      (7)   To recommend to the state’s Real Estate Board suspension and/or
revocation of licenses of real estate brokers in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter;
      (8)   To render from time to time, but not less than every 12 months, a
written report to the City Council of its activities and recommendations with
respect to fair real estate practices, which written reports shall be made
public after submission to the City Council; and
      (9)   To exercise such other powers as are vested in the Board by other
sections of this chapter and to adopt such rules and regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 366, passed 2-1-1982)
§ 92.05 FILING COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   The following procedures will be used to accomplish the purpose of
Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968:
      (1)   The city shall inform all of its employees of the city’s commitment
to equal opportunity housing;
      (2)   The city shall direct all employees to forward immediately to the
Chairperson of the City Council any reports they receive of housing
discrimination; and
      (3)   The Chairperson shall forward such complaints to the state’s
Division of Human Rights within ten days of receipt of said complaint.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved in any manner of any violation of any provision
of this chapter may file with the Board a written verified complaint setting
forth his or her grievance. The complaint shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the complaint;
      (2)   The name and address of the person against whom the complaint is
brought, if known to the complainant;
      (3)   The alleged facts surrounding the alleged violation of this chapter
(and date); and
      (4)   Such complaint shall state the names and addresses of all persons
believed to have knowledge concerning the alleged facts.
   (C)   After the filing of any complaint, the Board shall serve a copy of the
complaint on the party or parties charged, and the Chairperson of the Board
shall designate a panel, as defined in §
92.02, to make a prompt investigation in connection therewith.
   (D)   If such panel shall determine, after such investigation, that probable
cause exists for the allegations of the complaint:
      (1)   The Chairperson of the Board shall set a time and date for a
conference with the Board; said conference shall be private; and
      (2)   At such conference, the Board shall interview the complainant and
the person or persons against whom the complaint has been directed, and shall
attempt to resolve the complaint by all proper methods of conciliation and
persuasion.
   (E)   If, at any time after the date of filing of the complaint, the Board
shall determine that such attempt at conciliation and persuasion would not be
in furtherance of the objectives of this chapter, the Board shall thereupon
proceed promptly to a full hearing on the complaint in accordance with §
92.06.
(Ord. 366, passed 2-1-1982; Res. 98-01-04, passed 1-12-1998)
§ 92.06 HEARINGS, ENFORCEMENT, AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Such hearings shall be conducted by the entire Board or a quorum
thereof upon ten days’ notice to all parties. The Board shall not be bound by
the strict rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity. The Board
shall have power to administer oaths and to take sworn testimony. The Board
shall have the power to subpoena witnesses and pertinent documents, which power
may be enforced by the Board by proper petition to the District Court of the
county where the complainant resides. The complainant and any party alleged to
have violated this chapter shall be entitled to be represented by counsel and
shall have the right to call witnesses on his or her own behalf and to cross-
examine witnesses.
   (B)   If, upon all the evidence at the hearing, the Board finds that the
person complained of has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, the
Board shall state its findings of fact and shall issue and cause to be served
upon such person, and order requiring such person to cease and desist from such
violation, and to take such affirmative or other action as, in the judgment of
the Board, will effectuate the purpose of this chapter, including a report of
the manner of compliance.
   (C)   If, upon all the evidence at the hearing, the Board finds that the
person complained of has not violated any of the provisions of this chapter,
the Board shall state its findings of fact and shall issue and cause to be
served upon the complainant an order dismissing the complaint.
   (D)   The Board shall retain jurisdiction of the case until it is satisfied
the person to whom the order was directed has complied. The order of the Board
and its findings of fact shall be issued within 30 days after the filing of the
complaint and shall be delivered to the complainant, the person charged, and
the Mayor of the city.
   (E)   The Board shall be empowered at the conclusion of the proceedings held
under division (A) above to instruct the City Attorney to do any one or more of
the following:
      (1)   To institute and prosecute proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction to enforce against any person found in violation of this chapter
the penalty or penalties provided for in §
90.99 below;
      (2)   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for:
         (a)   An order restraining any person from violating any provision of
this chapter; or
         (b)   Such other future relief as may seem to the court appropriate
for the enforcement of this chapter and for the elimination of violations
hereof.
      (3)   To petition or institute proceedings with the state’s Real Estate
Board for the purpose of causing the Real Estate Board to revoke, suspend, or
refuse to renew the license granted by such Board to any real estate broker or
real estate salesperson found to have violated any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   The Board is also empowered at the conclusion of such proceedings to
recommend to the state’s Real Estate Board suspension and/or revocation of the
broker’s license of any broker licensed by the state’s Real Estate Board
against whom a complaint shall have been filed and who shall have been a party
to any proceedings thus filed and found guilty of violating any applicable
provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Any complaint filed hereunder with the Board must be filed within 60
days after the alleged discriminatory practice occurred or it shall be barred.
   (H)   Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation of any provision
of this chapter who has exhausted the remedies provided in §
92.05 and division (A) above may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction
for appropriate relief from such violation, including:
      (1)   An order compelling compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   An order to prohibit any person found by the court to have violated
any provision of this chapter from the sale, lease, exchange, transfer,
conveyance, or assignment of any dwelling or housing which is the subject of
such violation;
      (3)   An order requiring specific performance of any contract for the
sale, lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance, or assignment of any dwelling or
housing, by any person who in violation of this chapter refuses or fails to
perform such contract;
      (4)   Compensatory damages and, if appropriate, punitive damages; and/or
      (5)   Such other and further relief as may seem appropriate to the court
for the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of violations thereof.
   (I)   Any complainant under this chapter may apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for an order temporarily prohibiting any transaction affecting the
real property which is the subject of the complainant’s pending complaint under
this chapter prior to final determination by the Board where the owner of said
property is one of the parties complained of.
   (J)   Any party, complainant, or person aggrieved by an order of the Board
shall have the right to obtain judicial review of such order.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may, in addition to
revocation or suspension of the license herein required or in lieu thereof, be
fined not more than $100 or be imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 366, passed 2-1-1982)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Park Rules and Regulations
   
93.01   Camping in Splitrock Park
   
93.02   Waste disposal
   
93.03   Camping curfew
   
93.04   Campfires
   
93.05   Picnic shelters
   
93.06   Animals in parks
   
93.07   Reserved
   
93.08   Camping and shelter fees
Garretson Swimming Pool
   
93.20   Control of pool
   
93.21   Maintenance of pool road
PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 93.01 CAMPING IN SPLITROCK PARK.
   (A)   All campers must register upon arrival. Campers that are not
registered by 10:00 p.m. will be asked to leave.
   (B)   Camping in front half of park is allowed only in established camping
spots, as indicated by numbered pads. There can be up to two additional tents
per spot. Daily non-refundable camping fees for these spots and any additional
tents shall apply as adopted by resolution of the City Council, which shall be
on file in the office of the City Finance Officer.
   (C)   Camping in north end of park will be for tent camping only. There will
be numbered sites, and only four tents per site are allowed. All tents must be
within reasonable distance from the numbered pole. Daily non-refundable camping
fees for these spots and any additional tents shall apply as adopted by
resolution of the City Council, which shall be on file in the office of the
City Finance Officer.
   (D)   Campers are allowed to camp at Splitrock Park for a maximum of five
consecutive days.
   (E)   Special arrangements can be made for large group camping. Groups
should contact City Hall at (605)594-6721, located at 705 Main Avenue, or the
City Park Ranger on duty.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 93.02 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   All campers must deposit their garbage in the main dumpster located near the
bathroom facilities.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-10-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 CAMPING CURFEW.
   (A)   The city has a curfew policy set out in §
130.01. If any questions, please contact the city park ranger or the police
officer on duty.
   (A)   Courtesy "lights out" policy by 11:00 p.m. Any loud or out of control
groups or individuals will be asked to obey policy on first warning, and asked
to leave on the second warning.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-10-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 CAMPFIRES.
   Campfires are allowed only in designated campfire spots.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-10-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 PICNIC SHELTERS.
   Reservations will be accepted and enforced for the picnic shelter. All
reservations must be made through the Splitrock Park Information Center at 594-
3805 or City Hall at 594-6722. A reservation fee shall apply as adopted by
resolution of the City Council, which shall be on file in the office of the
City Finance Officer. Said fee is non-refundable.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-10-1998)
§ 93.06 ANIMALS IN PARKS.
   (A)   All animals must be on a leash at all times, according to §
90.02.
   (B)   Horses are allowed in the park on maintained roads only.
(Ord. 525, passed 6-10-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 RESERVED.
§ 93.08 CAMPING AND SHELTER FEES.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish the fees for camping and reserving
the picnic shelter for the city. Said fees provided by the city shall be kept
on file at the office of the City Finance Officer as follows.
   (B)   The non-refundable camping fee shall be as follows per day:
      (1)   Tent spots: $15 per spot per day with $10 per day per additional
tent, with a limit of two additional tents per spot;
      (2)   Electrical spots: $22 per spot per day with $10 per day per
additional tent, with a limit of two additional tents per spot;
      (3)   Organized non-profit youth groups (e.g., Boy Scouts/Girl Scout
Troops): All fees at half-price with a minimum two night stay; and
      (4)   The picnic shelter fee shall be as follows: There shall be a $30
per day non-refundable fee for reserving the picnic shelter.
(Res. 2020-07, passed 3-2-2020)
GARRETSON SWIMMING POOL
§ 93.20 CONTROL OF POOL.
      The city will lease the Garretson Swimming Pool from the Garretson
Community Foundation, Inc. for the sum of $1 and will assume temporary total
control of the Garretson Swimming Pool effective immediately and until
terminated or amended by either party. This control will be under the above
requested conditions with the additional condition that the City Council will
have final decision making authority over the actions for the appointed Pool
Board. Additionally, the city will provide proper financial accounting and
provide necessary and prudent insurance coverage for the operation of the
Garretson Swimming Pool. All donations or receipts received in support of the
Garretson Swimming Pool will be retained within the General Fund and dedicated
solely to the operation and support of the Garretson Swimming Pool.
(Res. 00-05-01, passed 5-8-2000)
§ 93.21 MAINTENANCE OF POOL ROAD.
   The city, as part of the annual support of the Garretson Pool, will maintain
the gravel road providing ingress and egress to the pool. The maintenance of
the gravel road will consist of grading/blading and filling holes as required.
The maintenance of the gravel road will only be done during the months the pool
is open.
(Res., passed 6-14-1993)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Firewood storage
   
94.02   Burning in the fire zone
Open Burning
   
94.15   Definition
   
94.16   Refuse burning; construction and restrictions
   
94.17   Regulatory exemptions
Fireworks
   
94.30   Fireworks prohibited; exceptions
   
94.31   Sale of fireworks
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 FIREWOOD STORAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FACE CORD. A unit of quantity for firewood equal to 64 cubic feet.
      FIREWOOD. Split wood or unsplit wood logs for the purpose of burning.
   (B)   No person shall keep, store, or permit the keeping or storage of
firewood on premises owned, leased, or occupied by him or her unless such
firewood is kept or stored for use on the premises and in conformance with the
following.
      (1)   No more than four face cords of firewood shall be kept or stored
outdoors at any time.
      (2)   Firewood shall not be kept or stored in the front yard of a
property.
      (3)   Firewood shall only be kept or stored in a straight, orderly, neat,
and secure stack and may not be stacked more than six feet high.
      (4)   Unless screened by a solid fence or wall, provided that it is
stacked no higher than the solid fence or wall, firewood stacks shall be no
closer than five feet to the nearest property line.
      (5)   Firewood shall not be permitted to become infested with rats,
rodents, or other vermin.
      (6)   All brush, debris, and refuse from processing of firewood shall be
promptly removed from the premises.
(Ord. 602-2011, passed 6-13-2011) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 BURNING IN THE FIRE ZONE.
   Burning, causing, or permitting to be burned in the city Fire Zone, from
time to time, legally established any dirt, filth, manure, garbage, sweepings,
leaves, ashes, paper, refuse, rubbish, or matter of any kind is prohibited.
(Ord. 263, passed 5-6-1968) Penalty, see §
94.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 94.15 DEFINITION.
   OPEN BURNING shall mean the burning of any matter in such manner that the
products of combustion resulting from the burning are emitted directly into the
air.
(Ord. 385, passed 8-5-1985)
§ 94.16 REFUSE BURNING; CONSTRUCTION AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall dispose of refuse and/or other combustible material by
open burning, or cause, suffer, allow, or permit open burning of refuse and/or
combustible material, and or/person shall conduct or cause or permit the
conducting of a salvage operation by open burning in the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn
sweepings, trash, lumber, leaves, straw, or other combustible material in any
alley, street, yard, or vacant lot within the fire limits prescribed by
ordinance in the city.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-8-1913; Ord. 385, passed 8-5-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 REGULATORY EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of open burning are permissible for the specific purpose
and conducted in conformity with the divisions set forth below.
   (A)   Fires purposely set for instruction and training of public industrial
firefighting personnel when authorized by the Fire Chief of the city's
Volunteer Fire Department.
   (B)   Fires set for the elimination of a fire hazard which cannot be abated
by any other means when authorized by the Fire Chief of the city's Volunteer
Fire Department.
   (C)   Fires purposely set by the city maintenance personnel for maintenance
purposes.
   (D)   Campfires and other fires used solely for recreational purposes,
ceremonial occasions, or for outdoor preparation of foods.
(Ord. 385, passed 8-5-1985; Ord. 710, passed 1-6-2025)
FIREWORKS
§ 94.30 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge fireworks within city
limits outside the specifications of this section. Legal discharge will be from
June 27 through the first Sunday following July 4, and December 28 through
January 1. Special permission may be requested for events or displays falling
outside of these dates and times for approval by City Council.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge fireworks of any sort
in any city park or on any property owned or managed by the city. Use of city
property for public display will require prior approval by City Council.
   (C)   No fireworks will be permitted at any time on Main Street from Second
Street to Fifth Street, and one block east or west of, on any intersecting
street or alley between Second and Fifth Streets.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-8-1913; Ord. 348, passed 5-19-1980; Ord. 688, passed 6-12-
2023) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.31 SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for an individual, firm, partnership, or
corporation to sell or possess for sale any pyrotechnics (commonly known as
fireworks) within the city limits in and along Highway 11, as set forth in SDCL
§ 34-37-10 to wit: Period and times during which retail sales permitted. No
person, firm, or corporation may offer fireworks for sale to individuals at
retail except during the period beginning June 27 and extending through July 5,
and during the period beginning December 28 and extending through January 1.
   (B)   Application for such sales shall be presented to the City Council,
provided approval has been granted by land owner for said location of fireworks
concession and all applicable state and city sales tax will be submitted to the
state’s Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 606, passed 1-9-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any persons violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §
94.16(A) shall be guilty of petty offense and shall be fined a sum not to
exceed $100 or 30 days jail, or both.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violation of §§
94.16(B) through
94.16(D) shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $25 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
94.30 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum of
not less than $10, nor more than $100 for each and every offense.
(Ord. 119, passed 1-8-1913; Ord. 159, passed 5-4-1926; Ord. 348, passed 5-19-
1980; Ord. 385, passed 8-5-1985)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Garbage, trash, and other waste
   
95.03   Unregulated fires
   
95.04   Abandoned and inoperable vehicles
   
95.05   Littering
   
95.06   Inhabitable buildings and properties
   
95.07   Remedies and abatement
Trees and Other Foliage
   
95.20   Trees; pruning for sidewalk clearance
   
95.21   Lawns; responsibility to mow grasses
   
95.22   Weeds
   
95.23   Diseased vegetation
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED PROPERTY. Any junk car, car bodies, or equipment of any type,
except in an authorized junk yard, or any accumulations of other unsightly
trash or junk which would constitute a health hazard, a rodent harborage, a
breeding area for insects or rodents, a dangerous place for children to play in
and around, or which tends to be unsightly and which does or tends to lower the
value of adjacent real property because of its unsightliness.
   ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES. No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city
for such time and under such circumstances as to cause the vehicle reasonably
to appear to have been abandoned.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is not in operating condition due to
damage, removal, or inoperability of one or more tires and wheels, the engine,
or other essential parts required for the operation of the vehicle, or which
does not have lawfully affixed thereto unexpired license plates, or which
constitutes an immediate health, safety, fire, or traffic hazard.
   NUISANCE. Unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, which act
or omission:
      (1) Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety
of others;
      (2) In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property;
      (3) Renders the ground, the water, the air, or food a hazard or any
injury to human health; and in addition
      (4) The specific acts, conditions, and things listed in §§
95.02 and
95.03 are hereby declared to constitute public nuisances, but such acts,
conditions, and things shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city that is privately owned
and which is not public property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. One that affects at the same time an entire community or
neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal. Every other
nuisance is private.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley, or highway, which shall include the
entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for
the purposes of vehicular travel, and also means any other publicly owned
property or facility.
   REMOVAL AGENCY. Any public body, private, or nonprofit organization
authorized, hired, or appointed by the city to remove and salvage vehicles.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility, and other discarded
materials, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations, and from
community activities including, but not limited to: wood and other construction
materials; appliances; yard waste; tires; scrap iron; chemicals; or fuel.
   UNSIGHTLY TRASH OR JUNK. Property which is deteriorated or wrecked, or
derelict property in unusable condition, having no value other than nominal
scrap or junk value, if any, and which is left outside of a permanent, enclosed
structure and which shall include, without limitation: motors; lawn mowers;
campers; refrigerators and other household appliances; furniture; household
goods and furnishings; scrap metals or lumber; or other similar articles in
such condition.
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance, whether or not self-propelled, and which is
designed to travel along the ground or in or on the water and shall include,
but not be limited to: automobiles; buses; motorbikes and motorcycles; motor
scooters; trucks; tractors; pull trailers; go-karts; golf carts; boats; jet
skis; campers; and trailers.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
(Ord. 581, passed 4-9-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 21-10-1, 21-10-3, 34A-6-1.2
§ 95.02 GARBAGE, TRASH, AND OTHER WASTE.
   No person, whether an owner, occupant, tenant, or other person in charge of
any real property within the corporate limits of the city shall create, commit,
maintain, or permit to be created, committed, or maintained, any public
nuisance, to include, without limitation, the following specific acts,
conditions and things, each and all of which are hereby declared to constitute
a nuisance:
   (A)   Depositing, accumulating, or permitting to be accumulated upon any
public or private property any household wastewater, sewage, garbage, refuse,
rubbish, offal, excrement, decaying fruit, vegetables, fish, meat, bones; any
fowl, putrid, or obnoxious liquid substance; any chemical or hazardous
material; putrescible and nonputrescible animal or vegetable wastes or solid
wastes, or any other waste material which constitutes or tends to create a
danger to public health, safety, and welfare;
   (B)   The accumulation of manure, garbage, or anything whatsoever which may
be breeding areas for flies, mosquitoes, or rodents;
   (C)   For the owner of a dead animal to permit it to remain undisposed of
longer than 24 hours after its death;
   (D)   Any excavation, trench, or open basement in which stagnant water is
permitted to collect or which may jeopardize the life, limb, or safety of the
general public;
   (E)   Throwing, or letting fall on, or permitting to remain on any street,
alley, or public ground any manure, garbage, rubbish, filth, fuel, or wood
while engaged in handling or removing any such substance; and
   (F)   Keeping or maintaining any building or enclosure where livestock or
fowl are kept unless a special permit is requested and such is approved by the
City Council.
(Ord. 581, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-29-13, 9-32-1, 9-32-10, 34A-7-9
§ 95.03 UNREGULATED FIRES.
   (A)   No person, whether an owner, occupant, tenant, or other person in
charge of any real property within the corporate limits of the city shall
create, commit, maintain, or permit to be created, committed, or maintained,
any public nuisance, to include, without limitation, the following specific
acts, conditions and things, each and all of which are hereby declared to
constitute a nuisance: disposing of garbage, waste, or refuse by open burning,
or causing, allowing, or permitting the conducting of a salvage operation by
open burning in the city.
   (B)   The following types of open burning shall be permissible for a
specific purpose when conducted in conformity with the divisions below:
      (1)   Fires set for the elimination of a fire hazard, which cannot be
abated by any other means when authorized by the Fire Chief of the City
Volunteer Fire Department;
      (2)   Fires purposely set by the city maintenance personnel for the
purposes as authorized by the Fire Chief of the City Volunteer Fire Department;
      (3)   Fires purposely set by the City Volunteer Fire Department personnel
and authorized by the Fire Chief for the purpose of training and conducted in
accordance with live fire-training standards; and
      (4)   Campfires and other fires used solely for recreational purposes,
ceremonial occasions, and outdoor preparation of foods.
(Ord. 581, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   General. No person, whether an owner, occupant, tenant, or other
person in charge of any real property within the corporate limits of the city
shall create, commit, maintain, or permit to be created, committed, or
maintained, any public nuisance, to include, without limitation, the following
specific acts, conditions, and things, each and all of which are hereby
declared to constitute a nuisance:
      (1)   Maintaining or permitting to be maintained on any private or public
property any abandoned property or unsightly trash or junk, abandoned vehicle,
inoperable vehicle, or parts thereof. It shall be unlawful to keep or place any
of such vehicles or vehicle parts:
         (a)   Upon public streets or property, except on an emergency basis;
         (b)   Upon the private property of any person owning, in charge of, or
in control of any real property within the city, whether as an owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee or otherwise, for longer than 14 days unless it is within a
fully enclosed building or structure. A carport, tarpaulin, tent, or other
similar temporary structure shall not be deemed to satisfy the requirements of
this section; and
         (c)   In no event shall an inoperable vehicle that constitutes an
imminent health, safety, or fire hazard be kept or located on any real
property.
      (2)   The requirements of division (A)(1) above shall not apply to the
following:
         (a)   One inoperable vehicle kept on private property without being
shielded from public view if licensed and kept on a private driveway. If this
inoperable vehicle is in a state of externally visible disrepair or
disassembly, it shall not be kept on the private driveway longer than 14 days;
         (b)   Filling stations, automobile repair shops, or any other motor
vehicle related businesses in compliance with applicable city ordinances may
place inoperable vehicles being repaired or offered for sale on the premises;
         (c)   Junkyards operated and maintained in compliance with applicable
city ordinances;
         (d)   One vehicle specifically designed and used for operation on drag
strips or raceways that remains on private property; and
         (e)   Any vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city or authorized by the city.
   (B)   Removal of abandoned or inoperable vehicles. Whenever the city or any
law enforcement officer for the city finds an abandoned or inoperable vehicle
on public property within the city, a written notice shall be placed on the
vehicle that it will be removed to a garage or place of safety, unless the
owner removes the vehicle from public property within 24 hours of the giving of
the notice. After the expiration of the 24-hour period, the vehicle may be
removed by a removal agency to a garage or place of safety. Nothing in this
section precludes the city or any law enforcement officer for the city from
immediately removing a vehicle that constitutes an imminent health, safety, or
fire hazard.
   (C)   Disposition of unclaimed vehicles. The removal agency shall have the
rights and obligations conferred upon it by SDCL Chapter 32-36 in regard to
titling or disposition of such unclaimed, abandoned, or inoperable vehicle,
except that, if not otherwise provided by state law, it shall have a possessory
lien upon any vehicle removed under provisions for this section for the costs
or reasonable charges in taking custody of and storing such vehicles.
   (D)   Duty of private property owners. No person owning, in charge of, or in
control of any real property within the city, whether as owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee, or otherwise shall allow any abandoned or inoperable vehicle
of any kind to remain on such property longer than 14 days.
   (E)   Notice procedure. A written notice shall be placed on the abandoned or
inoperable vehicle by the city or by any law enforcement officer for the city
requesting the removal of such motor vehicle in the time specified in this
section. Written notice shall also be placed on the front door of any dwelling
located on the private property requesting the removal of such motor vehicle in
the time specified in this section. In the event the owner and the occupant or
tenant of the real property are not the same person, written notice shall be
given to the owner by certified mail requesting the removal of such motor
vehicle in the time specified in this section. In the event the private
property is not occupied, written notice shall be given to the owner by
certified mail requesting the removal of such motor vehicle in the time
specified in this section.
   (F)   Responsibility for removal. Upon notice having been given, the owner
of the abandoned or inoperable vehicle and the owner or occupant of the private
property on which the vehicle is located, either or all of them, shall be
responsible for its removal.
   (G)   Content of notice. The notice in division (E) above shall request
removal of the abandoned or inoperable vehicle within 14 days after the date of
the posting or mailing of such notice, and the notice shall advise that failure
to comply with the notice to remove shall be a violation of this section, that
the city may take steps to abate the same, and that in addition to abatement
directly or by civil action, the city may pursue criminal fines and penalties
against the owner, occupant, tenant, or other person in charge of the real
property as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 581, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-1
§ 95.05 LITTERING.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street,
sidewalk, or other public place within the city except in authorized public or
private receptacles. The following further identifies acts and conditions that
constitute nuisances and are therefore prohibited.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, a public nuisance shall also include
snow and ice when deposited or allowed to accumulate in conflict with the
provisions of this section.
      (1)   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutters, streets, or
other public place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building
or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or
occupying property or places of business shall keep the sidewalk in front of
such premises free of litter.
      (2)   No persons, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw
or deposit litter upon any street or other public place or upon private
property within the city.
      (3)   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
city unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents, or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley, or
public place.
      (4)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied, open, or
vacant private property within the city, whether owned by such person or not,
except that the owner or person in control of private property may maintain
authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will
be prevented from being deposited upon any streets, sidewalk, or other public
place or upon any private property.
(Ord. 581, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 INHABITABLE BUILDINGS AND PROPERTIES.
   No person, whether an owner, occupant, tenant, or other person in charge of
any real property within the corporate limits of the city shall create, commit,
maintain, or permit to be created, committed, or maintained, any public
nuisance, to include, without limitation, the following specific acts,
conditions and things, each and all of which are hereby declared to constitute
a nuisance: maintaining, or causing or permitting the same, any building or
premises which is determined to be dangerous or dilapidated. Any building or
structure which has any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter
described shall be deemed to be a dangerous or dilapidated building, if such
conditions or defects thereby annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, repose,
health, or safety of others or, if such conditions or defects exist to the
extent that the life, health, property, value of property, or safety of the
public or its occupants are jeopardized:
   (A)   Whenever any building or structure is:
      (1)   Vacant and unoccupied for the purpose for which it was erected;
      (2)   Unfit for occupancy as it fails to meet minimum housing standards;
and
      (3)   Has remained substantially in such condition for a period in excess
of six months.
   (B)   Whenever any building or structure, through lack of maintenance or
attention and by virtue of its physical appearance and presence, thereby
depresses the market value of surrounding properties.
(Ord. 581, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-1
§ 95.07 REMEDIES AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Remedies against nuisances. The remedies against any nuisance shall
be:
      (1)   A civil action;
      (2)   Abatement; and
      (3)   In cases of public nuisance only, the additional remedy of
indictment or information as prescribed by the ordinance or by the state’s
codified laws, and the rules relating thereto.
   (B)   Abatement. A public nuisance may be abated without civil action by the
City Council or by any officer authorized thereto by law. Any private person
may likewise abate a public nuisance which is especially injurious to him or
her, or any private nuisance injurious to him or her in a manner by removing,
or, if necessary, destroying that which constitutes the nuisance, without
committing a breach of the peace or doing unnecessary injury. If a private
nuisance results from a mere omission of the wrongdoer, and cannot be abated
without entering upon his or her land, reasonable notice shall be given to him
or her before entering to abate it. The city may defray the cost of abating a
public nuisance by taxing the cost thereof by special assessment against the
real property on which the nuisance occurred. When the nuisance abated is an
unsafe or dilapidated building, junk, trash, debris, or similar nuisance
arising from the condition of the property, the city may commence a civil
action against the owner of the real property for its costs of abatement in
lieu of taxing the cost by special assessment.
(Ord. 581, passed 4-9-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 21-10-5, 21-10-6
TREES AND OTHER FOLIAGE
§ 95.20 TREES; PRUNING FOR SIDEWALK CLEARANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying real
property bordering on any street or alley, upon which property there may be
trees, to prune such trees in such manner that they will not obstruct or shade
the street lights, obstruct the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, obstruct
vision of traffic signs, or obstruct view of any street or alley intersection,
except where such service are provided for by utility firms.
   (B)   The minimum clearance for any overhanging portion thereof over a
sidewalk shall be eight feet whenever practicable, and shall be 14 feet over
all alleys and streets, except truck thoroughfares when the clearance shall be
16 feet, unless otherwise designated by the City Council.
(Ord. 561, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 95.21 LAWNS; RESPONSIBILITY TO MOW GRASSES.
   Vacant lots that need to be mowed are the responsibility of the owners of
the property. The city will mow them at a charge of $10 per hour with a $10
minimum.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 95.22 WEEDS.
   (A)   The following named weeds shall be deemed noxious, dangerous and
unhealthful vegetation, and are hereby declared to be nuisances, to-wit: rag-
weed; parsley; pig-weed; nettle; thistle; sunflower; goldenrod; tumbleweed;
burdock; cockle-burs; wild-oats; stick-tight; milk-weed; and mustard greens.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of
land within the city to grow, suffer, or allow to grow during the months of
June, July, August, and September on such lot or parcel of land any of the
vegetation described in division (A) above.
   (C)   The growth of weeds or plants declared to be primary or secondary
noxious weeds by the state Weed and Pest Control Commission, all weeds declared
to be locally noxious by the City Council, and all other weeds and grasses
growing upon any real property in the city to a height greater than eight
inches, or which have gone or are about to go to seed, or the dense growth of
brush or grasses which may constitute a health, safety, or fire hazard, shall
be deemed noxious, dangerous, and unhealthful vegetation and are hereby
declared to be a nuisance. Fallen tree limbs, diseased or dead trees, and dead
tree limbs shall also be declared dangerous and a nuisance; provided, however,
that vegetation that is not a primary or secondary noxious weed and is being
grown as hay for livestock consumption, as a native prairie display garden, or
as a wildflower display garden, or other nature areas, so long as the same are
approved to be used as such by the City Council, shall not constitute a
nuisance.
(Ord. 100, passed 12-8-1910; Ord. 581, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-12
§ 95.23 DISEASED VEGETATION.
   (A)   Any owner, occupant, or person in charge of any property under the
jurisdiction of the city shall remove at his or her own expense any trees,
brush, wood, or debris infected with Dutch Elm disease or other infestations or
infectious disease found thereon when so notified by the city to do so. The
City Council shall cause to be mailed to such owner, occupant, or person,
written notice that he, she, or they may appear before the said City Council at
an appointed time not less than 14 days from the date of mailing of said
written notice to show cause why said trees, brush, wood, or debris should not
be declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   At said meeting, the City Council may resolve and declare the same to
be a public nuisance and may order its removal by said owner, occupant, or
person within 21 days from the date of service of said resolution and order on
said owner, occupant, or person.
   (C)   (1)   Any diseased vegetation stored in the city shall be debarked or
covered with four to six mil clear plastic from April 1 to October 1, such
plastic to be sealed by placing all edges in a three to four-inch trench
covered with soil.
      (2)   In addition, any diseased vegetation which is removed and not
stowed in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be properly
disposed of by burning or burying in a designated disposal site.
(Ord. 581, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-32-12
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who creates, commits, maintains, or fails to abate a
public nuisance as required under the provisions of §§
95.01 through
95.06,
95.22(C) and
95.23 shall be subject to a maximum penalty or 30 days in jail or $200 fine, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues. In addition, the city may also use the
remedies of civil action and abatement as set forth in SDCL §§ 21-10-5 through
21-10-9.
      (2)   If the property owner does not mow his, her, or their property
within a week of being informed that their property needs mowing, the city will
mow the property and charge the property owner by the prices stated in §
95.21.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
95.22(B), upon conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not to exceed $25 for each
offense.
(Ord. 100, passed 12-8-1910; Ord. 314, passed 6-14-2004; Ord. 581, passed 4-9-
2007)
TITLE XI : BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   VENDORS
      
112.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
      
115.   NOVEL CORONAVIRUS (COVID- 19)
      
116.   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Alcoholic beverages in motor vehicles
   
110.03   Consumption in public places
   
110.04   General; minors
   
110.05   Violation
Business Licensing
   
110.20   License required
   
110.21   Applications for license
   
110.22   City to regulate sale and use
   
110.23   Limit on number of licenses
Sale, Distribution, and Consumption
   
110.35   Underage sales; exceptions
   
110.36   Minors
   
110.37   Age restriction; exceptions
   
110.38   Off-sale licenses to prohibit consumption on property
   
110.39   Sale of beer in kegs
   
110.40   Hours/days for on-sale/off-sale service
   
110.41   Permit to have employees on premises after closing
   
110.42   Days/hours of legal sale
   
110.43   Malt beverage sales by package
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages as
defined in this chapter.
   BULK CONTAINER. Any package or any container within which containers are one
or more package.
   CARRIER. A person who for hire transports passengers and who sells or
furnishes to passengers for consumption alcoholic beverages aboard any means of
conveyance.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Revenue of the state.
   DISPENSER. A duly licensed physician, dentist, veterinarian, osteopath,
podiatrist, chiropractor, or pharmacist, or a druggist, sanitarium, hospital,
clinic, education institution, industrial company, or industrial corporation
who purchases alcohol for scientific and medicinal purposes.
   DISTILLED SPIRITS. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, and other distilled spirits, including all dilutions
and mixtures thereof, for non-industrial use containing not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by weight.
   DISTILLER. Any person who owns, or who himself or herself, or through
others, directly or indirectly operates, or aids in operating, any distillery
or other establishment for the production, rectifying, blending, or bottling of
distilled spirits.
   MALT BEVERAGE. A beverage made by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion
or decoction, or combination of both, in potable brewing water, of malted
barley with hops, or their parts, or their products, and with or without other
malted cereals, and with or without the addition of un-malted or prepared
cereals, other carbohydrates or products prepared therefrom, and with or
without the addition of carbon dioxide, and with or without other wholesome
products suitable for human consumption containing not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by weight.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who owns or who himself or herself, or through
others, directly or indirectly operates, or aids in operating, any
establishment for the brewing, production, bottling, or blending of malt
beverages or wine.
   MUNICIPALITY. Any incorporated city or town, and any unincorporated platted
town having a United States post office, provided that the withdrawal of a
United States post office from any of the herein described municipalities shall
not affect the right of established liquor licenses to be continued, renewed,
or transferred; and shall not prevent the owner or bona fide lessee of the
licensed premises from receiving a renewal or re-issuance of such license.
   OFF-SALE. The sale of any alcoholic beverage for consumption off the
premises where sold.
   ON-SALE. The sale of any alcoholic beverage for consumption only upon the
premises where sold.
   ON-SALE DEALER. Any person who sells, or keeps for sale, any alcoholic
beverage for consumption on the premises where sold.
   PACKAGE. The bottle or immediate container of any alcoholic beverage.
   PACKAGE DEALER. Any person other than a distiller, manufacturer, or
wholesaler who sells or keeps for sale any alcoholic beverage for consumption
off the premises where sold.
   POPULATION. Number of inhabitants as determined by last preceding federal
census.
   RETAIL LICENSE. An on-sale or off-sale license issued under the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 110.02 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have a package or any other
receptacle containing alcoholic beverage in his or her possession in a motor
vehicle which is not in a sealed original package with the United States
Government and the State of South Dakota tax stamp unbroken; or the alcoholic
beverage is so removed that no occupant of the motor vehicle shall have access
to it while the vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or consume any
alcoholic beverage, within the corporate limits of the city within one mile of
the corporate limits, in any public place; except that possession and
consumption will be lawful within the confines of a licensed on-sale
establishment as provided by law and possession will be lawful with any package
that is properly sealed in accordance to §
110.02. PUBLIC PLACE shall mean any place, whether within or without a
building, any street, highway, alley, sidewalk or parking lot, commonly and
customarily open to or used by the general public, whether open or closed to
the public, unless approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages on a sidewalk or
walkway subject to a public right-of-way abutting a licensed premises is
permitted provided that the license holder derives more than 50% of its gross
receipts from the sale of prepared food for consumption on the licensed
premises. The sidewalk or walkway subject to a public right-of-way shall be
immediately adjacent to and abutting the licensed premises. This section does
not apply to any federal aid-eligible highway unless approved in accordance
with the applicable requirements for the receipt of federal aid. The sidewalk
or walkway subject to a public right-of-way where the sale and consumption of
alcoholic beverages is permitted does not constitute a public place as defined
in SDCL § 35-1-5.3, if the sidewalk or walkway subject to a public right-of-way
has been properly authorized for sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
The hours of authorized sale and consumption on the sidewalk or walkway subject
to a public right-of-way, as provided by this section, shall be consistent with
the hours permitted for the on-sale license.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002; Ord. 592, passed 5-11-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 GENERAL; MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to purchase, attempt
to purchase, possess, or consume alcoholic beverages from a licensee, except as
provided within this chapter.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 VIOLATION.
   Excepting in cases where a different penalty is imposed by this code or by
some existing provision of law, every violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be punished in accordance with the applicable provisions of
the law of the state.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
BUSINESS LICENSING
§ 110.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to sell, offer for sale, keep for
sale, exchange, distill, manufacture, produce, bottle, blend, or otherwise
concoct, within the city and within one mile of its territorial limits, any
alcoholic beverages without having a license therefor, as required by SDCL
Title 35 or as authorized by such title, and as required by federal law.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.21 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   Any person desiring to enter into the liquor business within the city shall
make application for a license as provided in the SDCL Title 35. Such
application shall be presented to the City Auditor and should the license
applied for be granted, such licensee shall furnish a surety bond if the same
be required for the purpose provided for, and in the amounts specified.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-7
§ 110.22 CITY TO REGULATE SALE AND USE.
   The city shall have the power to engage in retailing alcoholic beverages. It
shall have the power to regulate the transaction of business in alcoholic
beverages, the use and consumption thereof, and to establish the number of on-
sale and off-sale licenses which may be issued, and the fees to be charged
therefor, provide for reasonable classification of on-sale and off-sale
licenses and for the issuance of beverage on-sale and off-sale licenses to
licenses holding malt beverage licenses for which the fees to be charged for
the various classifications shall be uniform within each class, consistent with
the provisions of the SDCL Title 35.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Title 35 generally and § 9-29-7
§ 110.23 LIMIT ON NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   The city of Garretson shall fix the number of on-sale liquor licenses issued
to four licenses.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Title 35 generally and § 9-29-7
SALE, DISTRIBUTION, AND CONSUMPTION
§ 110.35 UNDERAGE SALES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No on-sale licensee may permit any person less than 21 years old to
loiter on the licensed premises or to sell, serve, dispense, or consume
alcoholic beverages on such premises. However, an on-sale licensed pursuant to
SDCL § 35-4-2(4), (5), (6), (11) or(14) (as amended) may permit 18 year olds to
sell and serve or dispense alcoholic beverages if not less than 50% of the
gross business transacted by that establishment is from the sale of food and
the licensee or an employee that is at least 21 years of age is on the premises
when the alcoholic beverage is sold or dispersed. For the purpose of this
section, the term TO SELL AND SERVE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES means to take orders
for alcoholic beverages and to deliver alcoholic beverages to customers as a
normal adjunct of waiting tables. The term does not include tending bar, or
drawing or mixing alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   No off-sale licensee licensed under SDCL § 35-4-2(6) may permit any
person less than 21 years old to sell, serve, or dispense alcoholic beverages
on the licensed premises unless such sales of alcoholic beverages constitutes
less than 50% of the gross business transacted by that establishment.
   (C)   An on-sale license issued a license pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-2(5) whose
sale of alcoholic beverages constitutes more than 50% of the gross business
transacted by that establishment may erect a physical barrier to allow for
multiple uses of the premises by persons of all ages provided persons under the
age of 21 are not permitted access to the area reserved for the sale of malt
beverages. For the purpose of this section, a physical barrier includes, but is
not limited to: a wall; fence; rope; railing; or other physical feature erected
for the sole purpose of restricting the free flow of foot traffic and access to
certain area of a premises.
   (D)   No off-sale licensee licensed under SDCL § 35-4-2(3) or (5) (as
amended) may permit any person less than 21 years old to sell, serve, or
dispense alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.36 MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, or furnish any
alcoholic beverage to any person under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
purchase or attempt to purchase an alcoholic beverage.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age 21 years to
misrepresent his or her age with the use of any document for the purpose of
purchasing or attempting to purchase such alcoholic beverage from and licensee.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any (off-sale) licensee to permit any person
less than 21 years old to sell, serve, or dispense alcoholic beverages on a
licensed premises except when such sales of alcoholic beverages constitutes
less than 50% percent of gross business transacted by the establishment.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002; Ord. 551, passed 5-13-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 35-9-2
§ 110.37 AGE RESTRICTION; EXCEPTIONS.
   Passing, consuming, or furnishing alcoholic beverage by or to a person under
the age of 21 years of age may be permitted when:
   (A)   The alcoholic beverage is prescribed by or under the direction of a
duly licensed practitioner or nurse of healing art for medical purposes; or
   (B)   The alcoholic beverage is consumed in a religious ceremony and given
to said person under the age of 21 by an authorized person.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 110.38 OFF-SALE LICENSES TO PROHIBIT CONSUMPTION ON PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to make any delivery of alcoholic
beverage outside of the premises as described in his or her license, and shall
also be unlawful for any alcoholic beverage to be consumed in or about the said
licensed premises.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.39 SALE OF BEER IN KEGS.
   No keg or malt beverage may be sold at retail in the city unless the
licensee who sold such keg records the name and address of the person to whom
the keg is sold and has provided for the identification of the keg. Each
licensee shall maintain such sales records for one year and shall make records
available to any law enforcement agency upon request.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 110.40 HOURS/DAYS FOR ON-SALE/OFF-SALE SERVICE.
   (A)   Every on-sale dealer shall flash the lights of his or her place of
business at 1:45 a.m. each day as a warning that within 15 minutes, the
licensed premises will be closed. At 2:00 a.m., every such on-sale dealer shall
have cleared his or her premises of all persons except employees and shall lock
all doors to said premises of all lights thereon except a nightlight approved
by the city. A nightlight shall burn from 2:00 a.m. until daylight of the
following day and shall keep the same closed and locked until 7:00 a.m. on the
following morning, provided, however, that the said dealer may, upon first
advising the police and informing who will be present, enter the said premises
at any time for the purpose of reasonable maintenance of said premises. For the
purpose of this section, REASONABLE MAINTENANCE shall be constructed to mean
only such maintenance as is necessary to prevent the deterioration or
destruction of said premises or any fixtures thereof, and cannot be delayed
until the hour of 7:00 a.m. the following morning. The purpose of this section
is that said premises shall be wholly vacant during said closed period, except
as hereinbefore provided.
   (B)   No alcohol shall be sold (on-/off-sale), consumed, or allow to be
consumed on any licensed premises after 2:00 a.m.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 35-4-81 and 35-4-81.2
§ 110.41 PERMIT TO HAVE EMPLOYEES ON PREMISES AFTER CLOSING.
   Section
110.40 shall not apply to any on-sale dealer which has applied for and received
a special permit to allow employees to remain inside the licensed premises for
preparation of food served on the premises during hours it is open for
business. This permit will be issued by the city, but only to a dealer whose
sales of food constitute 50% or more of its gross sales, and then only upon the
showing of necessity for the preparation of food after 2:00 a.m. If the permit
is granted, all alcoholic beverages shall be locked or otherwise made
inaccessible to the employee on the premises after 2:00 a.m. The fee for this
permit will be determined at the discretion of the city.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 110.42 DAYS/HOURS OF LEGAL SALE.
   (A)   Days to legally sell alcoholic beverages will be determined by state
law.
   (B)   Any licensed off-sale dealer of alcoholic beverages may sell, or allow
to be sold, malt beverages on Sunday between the hours 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.
   (C)   Any licensed on-sale dealer of alcoholic beverages may sell, or allow
to be sold, alcoholic beverages on Sunday between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and
12:00 a.m. with the ability of serving of food products with the simultaneous
capacity of at least 35 patrons. At 12:00 a.m., every such on-sale dealer shall
have cleared premises without delay except employees, and shall lock all doors
to said premises. Employees only between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 1:30 a.m.
will conduct reasonable maintenance upon closing, and then the said premises
will be vacated without delay.
   (D)   No alcohol shall be sold (on-/off-sale), consumed, or allowed to be
consumed on any licensed premises after 12:00 a.m.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002; Ord. 564, passed 8-9-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 25-4-81.2 and 35-4-81
§ 110.43 MALT BEVERAGE SALES BY PACKAGE.
   Holders of a packaged off-sale liquor license may sell malt beverages on
Sundays without applying for a separate license.
(Ord. 549, passed 3-11-2002)
CHAPTER 111: VENDORS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Exceptions
   
111.03   Refusal to leave premises
   
111.04   Entrance to premises
   
111.05   Misrepresentation
   
111.06   Hours of operation
   
111.07   Prohibited conduct
Permits
   
111.20   Permit required
   
111.21   Application for permit
   
111.22   False information
   
111.23   Fingerprints and photographs
   
111.24   Permit fee
   
111.25   Issuance restricted
   
111.26   Display of permit
   
111.27   Revocation
   
111.28   Expiration
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   A PEDDLER is any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling
from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street for the
purpose of selling or soliciting for sale goods, wares, merchandise, or
services, other than agricultural products produced or processed in the state;
and shall also mean and include any person transacting a temporary business
within the city at an established place of business. The word PEDDLER shall
include the terms “solicitor, transient or itinerant merchant or vendor” or
“transient or itinerant photographer.”
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to solicitations, sales, or
distributions made by charitable, educational, or religious organizations which
have registered each sales project with City Hall administrative staff on forms
provided by that office. There shall be no fee for such registration.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 111.03 REFUSAL TO LEAVE PREMISES.
   Any peddler who enters upon premises owned or leased by another and refuses
to leave said premises after having been notified by the owner or possessor of
said premises, or his or her agent, to leave the same shall be deemed guilty of
a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 ENTRANCE TO PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to enter upon any private premises when
the same are posted with a sign stating “No Peddlers Allowed.”
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001) Penalty, §
111.99
§ 111.05 MISREPRESENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to make false or fraudulent statements
concerning the quality or nature of his or her goods, wares, merchandise, or
services for the purpose of inducing another to purchase the same.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to engage in the business of peddling
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. the following morning, or at any
time on Sundays, except by specific appointment with an invitation from the
prospective customer. However, the City Council may, upon application by the
peddler, grant a permit to operate for longer hours and on Sundays. The Council
shall consider the applicant’s request for additional times of operation based
upon the Council’s determination of the health and welfare of the public,
including, but not limited to, such criteria as: traffic safety; pedestrian
safety; location of operation; suitability of days and times requested
considering the product to be sold; projected age of customers; and the like.
If the Council determines that a permit may be granted for additional hours
and/or Sundays, the Council shall issue one permit which specifies the hours
and days during which the peddler is permitted to operate.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Any peddler selling or soliciting for sale goods, wares, merchandise, or
services by traveling from place to place, house to house, or street to street
shall not remain in any one place for a period longer than necessary to make a
sale after having been approached or stopped for that purpose.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001) Penalty §
111.99
PERMITS
§ 111.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a peddler
within this city without first obtaining a permit to do so.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The application for a permit required by the provisions of this subchapter
shall:
   (A)   Require proof that the applicant has received the license required by
the state of pursuant to SDCL Chapter 9-34 (as amended);
   (B)   Contain a statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted of any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any state or federal law,
or municipal ordinance or code; the nature of the offense; the punishment or
penalty assessed therefor, if previously convicted; and the place of
conviction;
   (C)   Whether the applicant, upon any sale or order, shall demand, accept,
or receive payment or deposit of money in advance of final delivery;
   (D)   The period of time the applicant wishes to engage in business within
the city;
   (E)   The local and permanent address of the applicant and other persons who
will be selling within the city limits;
   (F)   The local and permanent addresses and the name of the person, if any,
that the applicant represents;
   (G)   The kind of goods, wares, merchandise, or services the applicant
wishes to engage in such business within the city;
   (H)   The last five cities or towns wherein the applicant has worked before
coming to this city; and
   (I)   Such other relevant information as the Chief of Police may require for
the investigation of the applicant.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 111.22 FALSE INFORMATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give any false or misleading
information in connection with his or her application for a permit required by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 FINGERPRINTS AND PHOTOGRAPHS.
   At the request of the City Finance Officer, the applicant for a permit
required by this chapter shall submit to fingerprinting and photographing by
the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 111.24 PERMIT FEE.
   Before any permit shall be issued under the provisions of this subchapter,
the applicant shall pay a fee of $35 cash.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 111.25 ISSUANCE RESTRICTED.
   No peddler’s permit shall be issued to a corporation, partnership, or other
impersonal legal entity. Each individual person engaging in the business of
peddling within the city shall be required to have a permit whether acting for
himself or herself, or as an agent or representative of another.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Every peddler having a permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter
and doing business within the city shall display his or her permit upon the
request of any person, and failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 REVOCATION.
   A permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be revoked for
the violation by the permittee of any provision of this code, state law, or
city ordinance. Upon such revocation, such permit shall immediately be
surrendered to the Chief of Police, and failure to do so shall be a violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 111.28 EXPIRATION.
   All permits issued under the provisions of this subchapter will expire on
December 31 of the year of issuance, regardless of the month and day of issue.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine or by imprisonment as
established in §
10.99 of the Garretson Municipal Code.
(Ord. 546, passed 5-14-2001)
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Generally prohibited
   
112.03   Operations
   
112.04   Physical contact
   
112.05   Refusal of admittance
   
112.06   Underage admittance
   
112.07   Conduct
   
112.08   Violations
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (STATE OF) NUDITY. The showing of the bare human male or female genitals,
anus, or pubic area with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of the
female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of the areola; or the
showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any location frequented by the public, or where the public is
present or likely to be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected
to be observed by members of the public. PUBLIC PLACES include, but are not
limited to: streets; sidewalks; parks; beaches; business; commercial
establishments, whether for profit or not-for-profit, and whether open to the
public at large or where entrance is limited by a cover charge or membership
requirement; bottle clubs; hotels; motels; restaurants; night clubs; country
clubs; cabarets; and meeting facilities utilized by any religious, social,
fraternal, or similar organizations. Premises used solely as a private
residence, whether permanent or temporary in nature, shall not be deemed to be
a PUBLIC PLACE. PUBLIC PLACE shall not include: movie theaters; enclosed single
sex public restrooms; enclosed single sex functional showers; locker and/or
dressing room facilities; enclosed motel rooms and hotel rooms designed and
intended for sleeping accommodations; doctor’s offices; portions of hospitals
and similar places in which nudity or exposure is necessarily and customarily
expected outside of the home and the sphere of privacy constitutionally
protected therein; nor shall it include a person appearing in a state of nudity
in a modeling class operated by:
      (1)   A proprietary school licensed by the state; a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (2)   A private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation, or an
accredited private college.
(Ord. 526, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 112.02 GENERALLY PROHIBITED.
   It is a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly or
intentionally, in a public place:
   (A)   Engage in sexual intercourse;
   (B)   Engage in deviate sexual conduct;
   (C)   Appear in a state of nudity; or
   (D)   Fondle the genitals of himself, herself, or another person.
(Ord. 526, passed 8-12-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 OPERATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity maintaining, owning, or
operating any public place to operate and knowingly, or with reason to know,
permit, or allow any person to appear nude in such pubic place, or to permit
unlawful touching, as prohibited by §
112.04.
(Ord. 526, passed 8-12-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 PHYSICAL CONTACT.
   It shall be unlawful for any male or female dancer, stripper, or performer
to engage in any physical contact with patrons or customers while dancing or
performing, to include but not limited to: placing of money in the dancers’ or
strippers’ wearing apparel. All such dancers or performers shall be confined to
a stage or designated area separate and apart from the seating area for patrons
and customers.
(Ord. 526, passed 8-12-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 REFUSAL OF ADMITTANCE.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person or entity to refuse
admittance without fee to any on duty police officer at any time when patrons
or customers remain in said premises.
(Ord. 526, passed 8-12-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 UNDERAGE ADMITTANCE.
   No person under 21 years of age shall be permitted access to any public
place defined herein which shall permit nude dancing, which otherwise complies
with the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 526, passed 8-12-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 CONDUCT.
   The contents of this chapter shall constitute contemporary community
standards as they pertain to public nudity and obscene live conduct.
(Ord. 526, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 112.08 VIOLATIONS.
   Operation of an establishment in violation of this chapter shall constitute
a public nuisance and in addition to all other remedies provided herein, the
City Attorney may, by civil process, seek permanent abatement of said nuisance.
(Ord. 526, passed 8-12-1998)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of up to $200 or
30 days in jail, or both, for each offense.
(Ord. 526, passed 8-12-1998)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Public Dances
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Obtaining license; fees
   
113.03   Age restrictions
   
113.04   Restrictions to non-profit organizations; licensing
   
113.05   Supervision
   
113.06   Required lighting
PUBLIC DANCES
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation to
conduct, operate, or carry on any public dance, or keep or maintain a dance
hall or place for public dances within the city, or within one mile from the
outer boundary of the same, without first obtaining from the city a permit and
license therefor.
(Ord. 151, passed 9-4-1923) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 OBTAINING LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   Any person or persons, firm or corporation desiring to conduct or
carry on, maintain, or operate any public dance in the city or within one mile
from the outer boundary of the same, shall make application to the Mayor for
permission therefor, which application shall state the location of the room,
place or hall, the name of the person or persons intending to operate the same;
if a firm or co-partnership, the name of the persons constituting the same; and
if a corporation, the names of the president, secretary, and treasurer thereof;
and which application shall further state the length of time which said person
or persons, firm or corporation desire to engage in said business; which
application so received by the Mayor, shall, if for one month or less, be
approved or rejected by him or her; but if for more than one month, shall be
with his or her recommendation, thereon, presented to the City Council at its
next regular meeting, or as soon thereafter as he or she conveniently can do
so.
   (B)   If said application is acted upon favorably by the Mayor in cases
where application is for one month or less; or where application is for more
than one month, said application is acted upon favorably by a majority vote of
the City Council, then the City Auditor shall issue a license to said applicant
for the length of time stated in said application upon payment of the license
fee hereinafter, provided to be paid by such applicant.
   (C)   The amount required to be paid for a permit or license for the
conducting, operating, or maintaining of any public dance hall in the city, or
within one mile from the outer boundary of the same, shall be as follows: $3
for one day; $5 for one week; $10 for one month; and $25 for one year.
   (D)   Which sum shall be paid into the city treasury and, upon presentation
of a receipt of such sum by the applicant from the City Treasurer, the City
Auditor shall issue a license to the applicant for the period of time which
said receipt shows to have been paid for.
(Ord. 151, passed 9-4-1923)
§ 113.03 AGE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person conducting a street dance in the city to
permit or allow any person under the age of 16 years unaccompanied by his or
her parent, step-parent, or legally appointed guardian to enter or remain
within the boundary designated for holding the street dance; it shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years unaccompanied by his or her
parent, step parent, or legally appointed guardian to enter or remain within
the boundary designated for holding the street dance.
(Ord. 431, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 RESTRICTIONS TO NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS; LICENSING.
   Street dances held within the city or within one mile from the outer
boundary of the city shall be conducted by non-profit organizations only. Each
sponsoring organization must obtain a license prior to each event. The fee of
such license shall be $50 due with application. The sponsoring organization
must submit proof of liability insurance to the city before such an event can
take place and adhere to all implemented street dance policies, as set forth by
the City Council.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 113.05 SUPERVISION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the person or persons, firm or corporation, or
manager in charge of any public dance or dance hall to suffer, permit, and
allow any member of the police force of the city, the Mayor, or any member of
the City Council, or any matron or plainclothes officer employed by the Mayor
or City Council to enter such dance or dance hall within the city, or within
one mile from the outer boundary of the same, at any or all times during the
progress of the dance and to remove from such dance hall any person or persons
found to be in an intoxicated condition or offending against morality or
decency, or offending against the provisions of §
113.03.
   (B)   Further, it shall be the duty of the person or persons, firm or
corporation, or manager in charge of any public dance or dance hall in the
city, or within one mile of the outer boundary of the same, to employ one or
more matrons, plainclothes officers, police officers, or both, to supervise the
conduct of the participants in attendance at the public dance, and the said
matrons, plainclothes officers, or police officers shall be appointed specially
by the Mayor for said duty, and shall have all the powers and duties of a
regularly appointed police officer, but shall be paid a salary by the person or
persons, firm or corporation, or manager in charge of said public dance or
dance hall, but the amount of said salary shall be specified by the Mayor.
(Ord. 151, passed 9-4-1923) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 REQUIRED LIGHTING.
   It shall be the duty of the person or persons, firm or corporation, or
manager in charge of such public dance or dance hall in the city, or within one
mile from the outer boundary of the same, to provide adequate illumination for
the purposes of lighting all the adjoining grounds used by the participants or
attendants at such dance or dance hall, and all of said grounds adjoining said
dance or public dance hall or used in connection therewith shall be lighted
during the time that any dance or dances shall be conducted, except dances in
the day time. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or
corporation, or manager in charge of such dance or dance hall in the city, or
within one mile from the outer boundary of the same, to allow or permit dancing
in said dance hall in the night time with dimmed or extinguished lights, or to
use the dance commonly called “The Moonlight Dance.”
(Ord. 151, passed 9-4-1923) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Short title
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Grant of authority and general provisions
   
114.04   Application for new franchise
   
114.05   Construction and operation standards
   
114.06   Operation and maintenance of system
   
114.07   Indemnification of the city
   
114.08   Insurance   
   
114.09   Revocation
   
114.10   Sale or transfer of franchise
   
114.11   Franchise renewal
   
114.12   Amendment of franchise
   
114.13   Marketing
§ 114.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the cable communications regulatory
ordinance.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Mayor or similar chief administrator of the city as may
be elected or appointed.
   APPLICANT. Any multi-channel video program distributor that submits an
application to the city in accordance with §
114.04 of this chapter.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the lawful
retransmission of local television broadcast signals and any public,
educational, and governmental access programming required by the franchise to
be carried on the basic tier. BASIC CABLE SERVICE shall not be inconsistent
with 47 U.S.C. § 543(b)(7).
   CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE.
      (1)   Any video programming provided over a cable system, regardless of
service tier, including installation or rental of equipment used for the
receipt of such video programming, other than:
         (a)   Video programming carried on the basic service tier;
         (b)   Video programming offered on a pay per channel or pay per
program basis; or
         (c)   A combination of multiple channels of pay per channel or pay per
program video programming offered on a multiplexed or time shifted basis so
long as the combined service:
            1.   Consists of commonly identified video programming; and
            2.   Is not bundled with any regulated tier of service.
      (2)   CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE not be inconsistent with the definition
as set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 543(l)(2) and 47 C.F.R. § 76.901(b) (1993).
   CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming,
or other programming service, and subscriber interaction, if any, which is
required for the selection of such video programming or other programming
service. CABLE SERVICE shall not include any video programming provided as part
of and via a service that enables users to access content, information, e-mail,
or other services offered over the public internet.
   CABLE SYSTEM or SYSTEM. The meaning ascribed to it in applicable federal
law.
   CITY. City of Garretson, Minnehaha County, South Dakota.
   COUNCIL. The Garretson City Council.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FRANCHISE. An initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by a
franchising authority, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise,
permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement, or otherwise,
which authorizes the construction or operation of a cable system or other MVPD
facility.
   FRANCHISE AREA. The area within the legal boundaries of the city.
   GRANTEE. The person which is granted a franchise in the city pursuant to
this chapter, its agents and employees, lawful successors, transferees or
assignees.
   MULTI-CHANNEL VIDEO PROGRAM DISTRIBUTOR or MVPD. A person such as, but not
limited to, a cable operator, a multi-channel multi-point distribution service,
a direct broadcast satellite service, an OVS provider, or a television receive-
only satellite program distributor, who makes available for purchase, by
subscribers or customers, multiple channels of video programming.
   OPEN VIDEO SERVICES or OVS. Any video programming services provided to any
person by a franchisee certified by the FCC to operate an open video system
pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 573, as may be amended, regardless of the facilities
used.
   PAY TELEVISION. The delivery over the system of pay per channel or pay per
program audio visual signals to subscribers for a fee or charge, in addition to
the charge for basic cable service or cable programming services.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
other legal entity.
   STANDARD INSTALLATION. Any residential installation which can be completed
using a drop of 150 feet or less.
   STREET. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street,
road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, path, court, sidewalk, parkway, or drive,
or any easement or right-of-way now or hereafter held by the city.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who lawfully receives cable service.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by a television broadcast station.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020)
§ 114.03 GRANT OF AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Franchise required. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
operate or maintain a cable system or MVPD facility or to provide cable
service, video programming or other MVPD services, including OVS, in the city
without a franchise authorizing the same, unless applicable federal or state
law prohibits the city’s enforcement of such a requirement.
   (B)   Grant of franchise. Any franchise that is granted in the city shall be
subject to the terms and conditions contained herein.
   (C)   Grant of nonexclusive authority.
      (1)   A grantee shall have the right and privilege to construct, erect,
operate, and maintain, in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the
streets, public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated and all
extensions thereof, and additions thereto in franchise area, poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other television conductors and
fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation in franchise area of a
cable system.
      (2)   A franchise shall be nonexclusive, and the city reserves the right
to grant a similar use of said streets to any MVPD at any time; provided,
however, that all franchises shall contain the same terms and conditions as
this franchise in order that one MVPD is not granted a competitive advantage
over another. In the event a MVPD commences operation without a franchise or is
granted a franchise to operate by the city, and the terms and conditions of
which do not comply with this chapter, then any other grantees shall have the
right either to opt in to the competitor’s franchise by providing ten days
prior written notice to the city; or to petition the city for modifications to
its franchise, in which case the city shall work in good faith with the
affected grantee(s) to review and adopt modifications which the grantee(s) deem
necessary, review and approval by the city shall not be unreasonably withheld,
delayed or conditioned.
      (3)   Before granting an additional franchise, the city shall give
written notice to all grantees of any new application, identifying the
applicant for such additional franchise and providing at least 30 days prior
notice of the date, time, and place at which the city shall consider and/or
determine whether such additional franchise should be granted.
      (4)   Every franchise shall apply to the entire service area of the city,
as it exists now or may later be configured.
      (5)   In the event the city grants one or more additional franchises or
one or more non-franchised MVPD’s commence providing cable service in the city,
a grantee shall have the right to terminate or reduce the term of this
franchise in its sole discretion.
      (6)   Neither the city nor grantee(s) may unilaterally alter the material
rights and obligations set forth in this franchise. In the event of a conflict
between any other ordinance and this franchise, the franchise shall control.
   (D)   Franchise term. A franchise shall be in effect for a period of up to
20 years from the effective date of the agreement, unless renewed, revoked, or
terminated sooner as herein provided.
   (E)   Territorial area involved. A franchise shall be granted for the
corporate boundaries of the city, as it exists from time to time. In the event
of annexation by the city, or as development occurs, any new territory shall
become part of the area covered; provided, however, that grantee(s) shall not
be required to extend service beyond its present system boundaries unless there
is a minimum of 25 homes per cable mile as measured from the last fiber node or
terminating amplifier.
   (F)   Written notice. All notices, reports, or demands required to be given
in writing under this chapter shall be deemed to be given when delivered
personally to any officer of grantee or the city’s Administrator of this
chapter as specified in a franchise.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020)
§ 114.04 APPLICATION FOR NEW FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Applications.
      (1)   An application for an initial franchise to provide video
programming shall be in writing on a form provided by the city which shall
contain where applicable:
         (a)   The applicant’s name;
         (b)   The business address of the applicant;
         (c)   The name and contact information of a designated contact for the
applicant;
         (d)   A description of the geographic area that the applicant proposes
to serve;
         (e)   The PEG channel capacity and capital support proposed by the
applicant;
         (f)   The term of the franchise proposed by the applicant;
         (g)   Whether the applicant holds an existing authorization to access
the public rights-of-way in the subject franchise service area as described in
47 C.F.R. § 76.41(b)(5);
         (h)   Any additional information required by applicable state or local
laws, if any; and
         (i)   The signature of an authorized officer of the applicant
acknowledging the certification of the contents of the application and the
applicant’s agreement to all terms and conditions of the proposed franchise
which are contained therein.
      (2)   The initial franchise application may be evaluated according to the
following criteria, and approved within 180 days after the city deems the
application is complete. In the event applicant is already authorized to occupy
the rights-of-way, the time for review and approval will be 90 days.
      (3)   The evidence of legal, technical and financial ability required in
the applicant’s proposal will be such as to assure the ability to complete the
entire system within a reasonable time from the date the franchise is granted.
The city will also consider the applicant’s ability to operate the system and
provide the necessary cable services or video programming in compliance with
the terms of this chapter.
      (4)   The Administrator or designee shall prepare a report and make his
or her recommendations respecting such application to the Council.
      (5)   A public hearing shall be set prior to any grant of a franchise, at
a time and date approved by the Council. Within 30 days after the close of the
hearing, the Council shall make a decision based upon the evidence received at
the hearing as to whether or not the franchise(s) should be granted, and, if
granted subject to what conditions.
      (6)   The city may consider any additional information that it deems
applicable.
   (B)   Acceptance.
      (1)   By submitting an application, the applicant shall be deemed to have
acknowledged the validity of the contents of the application and agreed to all
of the terms and conditions thereof. If the application is approved by the
Council, it shall be executed by the Administrator. Such execution by the
Administrator shall be deemed the grant of a franchise for all purposes, and
the applicant shall be deemed a grantee as defined herein.
      (2)   Upon approval of the Council and execution by the Administrator,
grantee shall also deliver any insurance certificates required herein that have
not been previously delivered with the application.
      (3)   Upon submission of the application and the execution thereof by the
Administrator, grantee shall be bound by all the terms and conditions contained
herein.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020)
§ 114.05 CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATIONS STANDARDS.
   (A)   A grantee shall obtain all required permits from the city before
commencing any construction upgrade or extension of the system.
   (B)   The city shall impose no permit fees upon a grantee.
   (C)   If at any time during the period of a franchise, the city shall elect
to alter, or change the grade or location of any street, alley or other public
way, a grantee shall, at its own expense, upon reasonable notice by the city,
remove and relocate its poles, wires, cables, conduits, manholes and other
fixtures of the system. If the city reimburses other occupants of the street, a
grantee shall be likewise reimbursed.
   (D)   A grantee shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit
issued by the city, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the moving
of buildings with the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by the
person requesting the same, and a grantee shall be given not less than ten days
advance notice to arrange for such temporary changes.
   (E)   A grantee shall have the authority to trim any trees upon and
overhanging the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public easements of the city so
as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires
and cables of the grantee.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve any person from
liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injuring grantee’s facilities.
   (G)   In areas where all other utility lines are placed underground, grantee
shall construct and install its cables, wires and other facilities underground.
In any area where one or more public utilities are aerial, grantee may
construct and install its cables, wires and other facilities from the same pole
with the consent of the owner of the pole.
   (H)   A grantee shall at all times construct and operate its system in
accordance with applicable FCC technical specifications.
   (I)   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued
for any reason for a continuous period of 12 months, or in the event such
systems or property has been installed in any street or public place without
complying with the requirements of this chapter, or the rights granted
hereunder have been terminated, cancelled or have expired, grantee shall,
subject to the rights of the city to acquire the system as specified herein,
promptly remove from the streets, or public places all such property and poles
of such system other than any which the city may permit to be abandoned in
place. In the event of such removal, grantee shall promptly restore the street
or other area from which such property has been removed to a condition
satisfactory to the city.
   (J)   Any property of grantee to be abandoned in place shall be abandoned in
such a manner as the city may prescribe. Upon permanent abandonment of the
property of grantee in place, it shall submit to the city an instrument to be
approved by the city, transferring to the city the ownership of such property.
   (K)   All cable and passive equipment for cable television reception service
installed by grantee at a subscriber’s location shall remain the property of
grantee and grantee shall have the right to remove said cable and equipment.
Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall promptly
remove all its above ground facilities and equipment from the premises of such
subscriber upon his or her request.
   (L)   No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected by the
grantee without prior approval of the designated representative of the Council
with regard to locations, height, type or any other pertinent aspect, which
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. However, no locations of any pole
or wire-holding structure of the grantee shall be a vested interest and such
poles or structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its own
expense whenever the Council or its designated representative determines that
the public convenience would be enhanced thereby.
   (M)   Where poles or other wire-holding structures already existing in use
in serving the city are available for use by grantee, but it does not make
arrangements for such use, the Council may require the grantee to use such
poles and structures if it determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available to the grantee are just and
reasonable.
   (N)   Where the city or a public utility serving the city desires to make
use of poles or other wire-holding structures of the grantee, but agreement
therefore with the grantee cannot be reached, the Council may require the
grantee to permit such use for such consideration as is just and reasonable and
upon such terms as the Council determines the use would enhance the public
convenience, and would not unduly interfere with the grantee’s operations.
   (O)   Grantee shall at all times maintain on file with the City Auditor a
schedule setting forth all rates and charges to be made to subscribers for
basic cable service, including installation charges.
   (P)   During the term hereof, the city may regulate rates only if authorized
to do so by the FCC regulations and then such regulation shall only be in
accordance with the provisions of such regulations.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.06 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   A grantee shall render effective service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
   (A)   Service to schools and the city. A grantee shall, subject to the
territorial area requirements of §
114.03(D), provide up to three outlets of basic cable service at no cost to the
city to such locations under public ownership to be mutually agreed upon by the
city and grantee.
   (B)   PEG channel. The grantee shall allocate one channel to the city as a
public, educational or governmental access channel. Until such time as the city
files a written request with grantee for full-time use of the channel, grantee
shall have the right to use that portion of the channel capacity that is not
being used by the city. Grantee shall have a reasonable period of time after
notification to vacate its use of the channel. Grantee shall assist the city in
obtaining the necessary licenses and frequency clearance to enable the city to
use said channel.
   (C)   Emergency use. A grantee shall comply with the emergency alert
requirements of federal law.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020)
§ 114.07 INDEMNIFICATION OF THE CITY.
   (A)   A grantee shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the city, its
officers, boards, committees, commissions, elected officials, employees and
agents, from and against all liability, damages, and penalties which they may
legally be required to pay as a result of the exercise of a franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter, except claims covered by worker’s compensation
insurance or any claims arising from or related to the city’s negligence.
Nothing in this chapter relieves a person from liability arising out of the
failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring the grantee’s facilities
while performing work connected with grading, regarding, or changing the line
of a street or public place or with the construction or reconstruction of a
sewer or water system.
   (B)   In order for the city to assert its rights to be indemnified,
defended, and held harmless, the city must with respect to each claim:
      (1)   Promptly notify a grantee in writing of any claim or legal
proceeding which gives rise to such right;
      (2)   Afford grantee the opportunity to participate in and fully control
any compromise, settlement or other resolution or disposition of any claim or
proceeding; and
      (3)   Fully cooperate with reasonable requests of grantee, at grantee’s
expense, in its participation in, and control, compromise, settlement or
resolution or other disposition of such claim or proceeding subject to division
(B) above.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020)
§ 114.08 INSURANCE.
   A grantee shall maintain in full force and effect at its sole expense, a
comprehensive general liability insurance policy, including contractual
liability coverage, in protection of the city in its capacity as such. The
policies of insurance shall be in the sum of not less than $300,000 for
personal injury or death of any one person, and $1,000,000 for personal injury
or death of two or more persons in any one occurrence, $300,000 for property
damage to any one person and $1,000,000 for property damage resulting from any
one act or occurrence.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020)
§ 114.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   City’s right to revoke. The city reserves the right to revoke,
terminate or cancel a franchise, if after strictly following the procedures
required by division (B) below, it is determined that a grantee has violated
any material provision of its franchise or this chapter and has failed to
substantially cure said violation.
   (B)   Procedures for revocation.
      (1)   The city shall provide a grantee with written notice of a cause for
revocation and the intent to revoke and shall allow grantee 60 days subsequent
to receipt of the notice in which to substantially cure the violation or to
provide adequate assurance of performance. Together with the notice required
herein, the city shall provide grantee with written findings of fact which are
the basis of the revocation.
      (2)   Grantee shall be provided the right to a public hearing affording
due process before the Council prior to revocation, which public hearing shall
follow the 60-day notice provided in division (A) above. The city shall provide
grantee with written notice of its decision together with written findings of
fact supplementing said decision.
      (3)   After the public hearing and upon written determination by the city
to revoke the franchise, grantee may appeal said decision with an appropriate
state or federal court or agency.
      (4)   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force
and effect unless the term thereof sooner expires.
      (5)   Upon satisfactory correction by grantee of the violation upon which
said notice was given, the initial notice shall become void.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020)
§ 114.10 SALE OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   No sale or transfer of a franchise shall take place without the written
approval of the city, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. All of
the rights, privileges, obligations, duties, and liabilities created by this
franchise shall pass to and be binding upon the successor or assign of a
grantee. Said approval shall not be required where a grantee grants a security
interest in its franchise and assets to secure indebtedness.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.11 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   Any renewal of a franchise shall be done in accordance with applicable law,
if any.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020)
§ 114.12 AMENDMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   A grantee and the city may agree, from time to time, to amend a franchise.
Such written amendments may be made at any time, in accordance with applicable
law.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020)
§ 114.13 MARKETING.
   A grantee shall have the right to conduct direct selling in the franchise
area, including door to door sales, notwithstanding any peddler or solicitor
laws or regulations to the contrary.
(Ord. 660, passed - -2020)
CHAPTER 115: NOVEL CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19)
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Licensed food service entities
   
115.03   Recreational facilities, athletic facilities, health clubs, and
entertainment venues
   
115.04   All businesses
   
115.05   Locations within city limits
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   PATRON. A customer of any business defined in §§
115.02 or
115.03 and does not include the owners, employees or staff of any such
business.
   PARTY and PARTIES. Groups of six or fewer adult patrons. Minors are allowed
and not included in party limits.
   PREMISES. The business building, structure or any portion thereof together
with the parking lot, patio and other outdoor seating area for such business.
   SEATING. Patron seating at tables, counters and bars.
   SOCIAL DISTANCING. Separation of at least six feet between party seating
arrangements.
(Ord. 656, passed 5-5-2020)
§ 115.02 LICENSED FOOD SERVICE ENTITIES.
   (A)   All licensed food service entities, including, but not limited to,
restaurants, food courts, coffee houses, bars, breweries, distilleries,
wineries, clubs, cafes and other similar places of public accommodation
offering food and beverages for on-site consumption, including any alcohol
licensees with on-sale privileges, shall be permitted to allow patrons into
their businesses, so long as the maximum number of patrons allowed upon the
business’ premises at any given time shall not exceed the greater of the
following:
      (1)   Ten patrons; or
      (2)   The number of patrons for which the business can provide seating to
all parties which is no less than six feet apart from other parties.
   (B)   Businesses included in this section may not serve any single group of
patrons larger than a party, as defined herein.
(Ord. 656, passed 5-5-2020)
§ 115.03 RECREATIONAL FACILITIES, ATHLETIC FACILITIES, HEALTH CLUBS, AND
ENTERTAINMENT VENUES.
   All recreational facilities, athletic facilities, health clubs, and
entertainment venues shall be permitted to allow patrons into their businesses,
so long as the maximum number of patrons allowed upon the business’ premises at
any given time shall not exceed the greater of the following:
   (A)   Ten patrons; or
   (B)   Fifty percent of the business’ occupant load as determined by the City
Fire Marshal or the City Planning and Development Office pursuant to the
business’ applicable occupancy classification.
(Ord. 656, passed 5-5-2020)
§ 115.04 ALL BUSINESSES.
   All businesses, including those not listed in §§
115.02 or
115.03 are expected to maintain social distancing between parties and should
implement or continue to implement procedures to ensure compliance with federal
and state health guidance in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
(Ord. 656, passed 5-5-2020)
§ 115.05 LOCATIONS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   This chapter shall apply to all locations within the city limits as defined
in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 656, passed 5-5-2020)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person in violation of this chapter is subject to the general
penalty provision listed in §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided for §
10.99, any person and/or business entity violating the provision of this
chapter may be enjoined from continuing the violation. Notwithstanding the
previous sentence, any violation of this chapter by any business licensed under
SDCL Title 35, shall, following a hearing as required by SDCL § 35-2-11.1,
result in a mandatory recommendation to the State Secretary of Revenue that
such business’ license by suspended or revoked for such violation. In the event
that the hearing requirement of SDCL § 35-2-11.1 is waived or otherwise
suspended pursuant to gubernatorial action pursuant to SDCL § 34-48-5, then
such recommendation will be made without a hearing. Each day a violation of
this chapter is allowed to occur is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 656, passed 5-5-2020)
CHAPTER 116: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose and intent
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   License required
   
116.04   License application
   
116.05   Issuance of license
   
116.06   City neutrality as to applicants
   
116.07   Number of cannabis dispensaries
   
116.08   Expiration of license and renewal
   
116.09   Suspension
   
116.10   Revocation
   
116.11   Suspension and revocation process
   
116.12   Appeal
   
116.13   Licenses not transferable
   
116.14   Hours of operation for dispensaries
   
116.15   Liability for violations
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City Council enacts the following licensing ordinances in order to
ensure that cannabis establishments within the municipal boundaries of the city
operate in a manner which complies with state laws and regulations, protects
the health, safety, and welfare of the general public, prevents potential
conflicts and issues arising from ownership and employees, recognizes certain
safety and security considerations, and minimizes risk of unauthorized use or
access of cannabis by the general public.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless an
alternative definition is explicitly stated in this section, this chapter
utilizes the definitions for cannabis-related terms which are defined by SDCL §
34-20G-1.
   CANNABIS (MARIJUANA). All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis, whether
growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying or curing
and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of marijuana
absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber produced from the
mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant.
The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L. and any part of that
plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids,
isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than three-tenths of 1%
on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, the term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, the
term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. Cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, the term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
the term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally authorized to
analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   DEPARTMENT. The South Dakota Department of Health.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 116.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment license issued
by the city pursuant to this chapter. A violation of this provision is subject
to §
116.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment registration
certificate issued by the Department pursuant to rules promulgated under SDCL §
34-20G. A violation of this provision is subject to §
116.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a cannabis establishment license must be made on a
form provided by the city. No other application form will be considered.
   (B)   The applicant must submit the following:
      (1)   Application fee of $5,000. The city will reimburse 80% of the
application fee for applicants who fail to obtain a registration certificate
from the South Dakota Department of Health; and
      (2)   An application that will include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The legal name of the prospective cannabis establishment;
         (b)   The physical address of the prospective cannabis establishment
that meets the zoning requirements in Title 17 adopted by Ordinance 646-2019
Garretson Zoning Regulations, as well as any location requirements pursuant
SDCL § 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder.
         (c)   The name, address, and birth date of each principal officer,
owner, and board member of the proposed cannabis establishment;
         (d)   A sworn statement that no principal officer, owner, or board
member has been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years
in any jurisdiction; and
         (e)   Any additional information requested by the city.
   (C)   Unless specifically listed as a conditional use in a particular zoning
district, cannabis establishments shall be prohibited in said district.
   (D)    Any other requirements set by the city.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 116.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city will issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant has made a false statement on the application or
submits false records or documentation;
      (2)   Any owners, principal officer, or board member of the applicant is
under the age of 21 years;
      (3)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years in any
jurisdiction;
      (4)   The proposed location does not meet the applicable zoning
requirements under Title 17 adopted by Ordinance 646-2019 Garretson Zoning
Regulations;
      (5)   The proposed location does not meet all location requirements under
SDCL § 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder;
      (6)   The license is to be used for a business prohibited by state or
local law, statute, rule, ordinance, or regulation;
      (7)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
had a cannabis establishment license revoked by the city or a registration
certificate revoked by the state;
      (8)   An applicant, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties
assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to any cannabis
establishment; or
      (9)   The applicant will not be operating the business for which the
license would be issued.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a cannabis dispensary license, the
city will reject the application if the limit on the number of cannabis
dispensaries has been reached.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the cannabis establishment so that it may be easily read at any
time.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 116.06 CITY NEUTRALITY AS TO APPLICANTS.
   Upon request from the Department as to the city’s preference of applicants,
the city will neither support nor oppose any registration certificate
application under consideration by the Department. Likewise, if inquiry is made
by the Department, the city will abstain from endorsing any application as
beneficial to the community.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 116.07 NUMBER OF CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   No more than one cannabis dispensary shall be allowed to operate in the city
at any time; provided the time, place, and manner of said dispensaries comply
with this chapter. The numerical limits on cannabis dispensaries may be altered
at any time by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.08 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license expires one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
116.04. Application for renewal must be submitted at least 30 days before the
expiration date. The license holder must continue to meet the license
requirements to be eligible for a renewal.
   (B)   The renewal fee is $5,000. The city will reimburse 80% of renewal fee
for applicants who fail to obtain a renewal of their registration certificate
from the department.
   (C)   Failure to renew a license in accordance with this section may result
in additional fees. Upon expiration of the license, the city may order closure
of the cannabis establishment.
   (D)   If a license holder has not operated an establishment for which it
holds a license in the preceding 12 months, the license will not be renewed.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 116.09 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A license may be suspended if the license holder or an employee or
agent of the license holder:
      (1)   Violates or is otherwise not in compliance with any section of this
chapter;
      (2)   Consumes or smokes or allows any person to consume or smoke
cannabis on the premises of the cannabis establishment; or
      (3)   Knowingly dispenses or provides cannabis or cannabis products to an
individual or business to whom it is unlawful to provide cannabis or cannabis
products.
   (B)   A license may be suspended if the license holder has its Department-
issued registration certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed by the
Department or if the registration certificate is expired.
   (C)   A license may be suspended if the license holder creates or allows to
be created a public nuisance at the cannabis establishment.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 116.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A license may be revoked if the license is suspended under §
116.09 and the cause for the suspension is not remedied.
   (B)   A license may be revoked if the license is subject to suspension under
§
116.10 because of a violation outlined in that section and the license has been
previously suspended in the preceding 24 months.
   (C)   A license is subject to revocation if a license holder or employee of
a license holder:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of non-cannabis
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   Operated the cannabis establishment or the business of the cannabis
establishment for which a license is required under this article while the
license was suspended;
      (4)   Repeated violations of §
116.11;
      (5)   Operated a function of a cannabis establishment for which the
license holder was not licensed (e.g., a licensed cannabis cultivation facility
conducting cannabis testing functions without a cannabis testing establishment
license);
      (6)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state for any taxes
or fees related to the cannabis establishment;
      (7)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officers, or board member
thereof, has been convicted of, or continues to employ an employee who has been
convicted of, a disqualifying felony offense as defined by SDCL § 34-20G;
      (8)   The license holder has its Department-issued registration
certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed or the registration certificate
is expired; or
      (9)   The license holder allows a public nuisance to continue after
notice from the city.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 116.11 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The license holder will receive a notice of intent to suspend or
notice of intent to revoke informing the license holder of the violation and
the city’s intention to suspend or revoke the license. The notice will be hand
delivered to the license holder or an employee or agent of the license holder
or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to the physical address of
the cannabis establishment.
   (B)   If the license holder disputes the suspension or revocation, the
license holder has ten days from the postmark date on the notice or the date
the notice was hand delivered to request a hearing before a hearing panel,
which will consist of the City Council and Mayor.
   (C)   A suspension will be for 30 days and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered, unless
the license holder exercises its rights to process and appeal, in which case,
the suspension takes effect upon the final determination of suspension.
   (D)   A revocation will be for one year and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered, unless
the license holder appeals the revocation, in which case, the revocation takes
effect upon the final determination of revocation.
   (E)   The license holder who has had the license revoked may not be issued
any cannabis establishment license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 116.12 APPEAL.
   An applicant or license holder who has been denied a license or renewal of a
license or who has had a license suspended or revoked under this chapter may
appeal to the City Council by submitting a written appeal within ten days of
the postmark on the notice of denial, non-renewal, suspension, or revocation.
The written appeal must be submitted to City Hall 705 N. Main Ave., PO Box 350,
South Dakota, 57030. The appeal will be considered by the City Council at a
regularly scheduled meeting within one month of the receipt of the appeal.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 116.13 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   No cannabis establishment license holder may transfer the license to any
other person or entity either with or without consideration, nor may a license
holder operate a cannabis establishment at any place other than the address
designated in the application.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.14 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   No cannabis dispensary may operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. any day of the week.
   (B)   Cannabis dispensaries are not allowed to be open on Sundays, New
Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Native American Day or Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving
Day and Christmas Day, and other holidays as designated by the City Council.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.15 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter,
an act by an employee or agent of a cannabis establishment that constitutes
grounds for suspension or revocation will be imputed to the cannabis
establishment license holder for purposes of finding a violation of this
chapter, or for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if
an officer, director or general partner or a person who managed, supervised or
controlled the operation of the cannabis establishment, knowingly allowed such
act to occur on the premises.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who operates or causes to be operated a cannabis establishment
without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunction, as well as prosecution for ordinance violations. Such
violations are punishable by a maximum fine of $500. Each day a cannabis
establishment so operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. 672, passed 9-13-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Loitering
   
130.03   Disorderly assembly
Gambling
   
130.20   Underage gambling
   
130.21   Places of conduct
   
130.22   Nuisance
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Hours for minors under 16. No minor under the age of 16 years of age
shall be or remain in or upon any public street, alley, park, playground,
public building, public place of amusement and entertainment, vacant lot, or
unsupervised public place between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the
following day.
   (B)   Hours for minors under 18. No person under the age of 18 years shall
be or remain in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public
grounds, public places, public buildings, public places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised public places within the city
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, unless
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the
care and custody of the person, or where the person is upon an emergency errand
or legitimate business directed or authorized by his or her parent, guardian,
or such other adult person having the care and custody of the person.
   (C)   Exceptions and penalties. The provisions of divisions (A) and (B)
above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other
adult person having the care and custody of the minor or where the minor is
upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed or authorized by his
or her parent, guardian, or such other adult person having the care and custody
of the minor;
      (2)   Any minor within the half hour following the formal dismissal time
of any service or authorized activity of any church, school, club, or other
adult-sponsored organization, provided said minor shall have actually attended
said service or authorized activity; or
      (3)   Any minor within the half hour following the minor’s being released
from employment.
   (D)   Violations. Any minor violating the provisions of divisions (A) and
(B) above shall be dealt with in accordance with juvenile court law and
procedures.
   (E)   Responsibility of officers. It shall be the right of any authorized
officer to arrest and detain any person violating the curfew and to keep the
person detained until the parent, guardian, or custodian is notified, when the
person may be released upon the giving of a promise by the person and his or
her parent, guardian, or custodian that such person together with his or her
parent, guardian, or custodian will appear at a stated time before the proper
authority to answer to the charges.
   (F)   Responsibility of parents or guardians. It shall be unlawful for the
parents, guardians, or other adult persons having the care and custody of a
person under the age of 18 years to knowingly permit such a person to be or
remain in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public
grounds, public places, public buildings, public places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised public places within the city
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, except when
the person is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person
having the care and custody of the person, or when the person is upon an
emergency errand or legitimate business directed or authorized by his or her
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of the
person.
(Ord. 513, passed - -; Ord. 594, passed 12-14-2009) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 LOITERING.
   (A)   Any person who shall be found loitering around any railroad depot or
grounds in the city, unless such a person is for the time being engaged in some
business demanding his or her presence at such depot or grounds, or who shall
bunk or sleep in any railroad car without leave of the yard master or persons
in charge of such car, or who shall habitually bunk in any public place without
visible means of support, or without being engaged in lawful business, or who
shall sleep or bunk in any stable or outhouse, or in any premises not his or
her own without leave, or who shall sleep or bunk in any public place or
schoolhouse without leave of the person in charge thereof, shall, upon
conviction, be fined.
   (B)   Each and every able bodied male person over the age of 16 and not over
the age of 50 years (blind and other infirm persons excepted) who shall loaf or
lounge about within the corporate limits of the city begging support soliciting
alms, and each and every one of that class of persons commonly known as
vagrants or tramps who live without labor or any visible means of support and
who will not work when offered employment at reasonable and ordinary wages,
found or staying within the corporate limits of the city are each and every one
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, before any justice of the
peace having jurisdiction thereof shall be fined.
   (C)   Whenever any person is convicted and imprisoned pursuant to the
judgment of any Justice of the Peace having jurisdiction thereof for the
violation of any of the provisions of division (B) above and sentenced by said
justice to hard labor such labor may be performed upon the public streets,
highways, or about public buildings, grounds, or at such other public place
within the corporate limits of said city and during such hours of the day as
the person in charge may direct, and not exceeding ten hours per day.
   (D)   The Chief of Police, or such other person as the City Council shall
empower, shall superintend the performance of the labor herein contemplated and
shall furnish tools and material, if necessary, to work with, at the expense of
the city. Such labor shall be performed under the direction of the City Council
and in accordance with such regulations as it may make.
   (E)   (1)   The officer having charge of any prisoner for the purposes
specified in division (C) above may use such means and no more than are
necessary to prevent escape either while going to, returning from, while at
labor at any time; or if he or she refuses to labor the officer having him or
her in charge may, to secure such prisoner or to cause him or her to labor, use
all reasonable means to enforce the observance of discipline, and may cause
such person to be kept in solitary confinement not more than ten days for any
one offense; and during such solitary confinement he or she may be fed on bread
and water unless other food is necessary for his or her health.
      (2)   Such imprisonment for refusal to work shall be inflicted within the
jail or jail enclosure and shall not be considered any part of the time for
which the prisoner is sentenced, but in no event shall the imprisonment exceed
50 days.
   (F)   The officer having the prisoner in charge shall protect him or her
from insults, annoyances, and communications with others while at labor and
going to and returning from same, and he or she may use such means as is
necessary and proper therefor.
(Ord. 16, passed 8-11-1892; Ord. 52, passed 5-7-1899) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISORDERLY ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in a disorderly assembly of
people. DISORDERLY ASSEMBLY being defined as an assembly of two or more
persons, some or all of whom are engaged in conduct or activities which
threatens public peace or safety, causes serious public inconvenience,
annoyance, or alarm to any other person, or creates a risk thereof, by fighting
or violent or threatening behavior, making unreasonable noise, loud or profane
language, disturbing any lawful assembly or meeting of persons without lawful
authority, obstructing vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or littering or
breakage or destruction of property.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to intentionally disobey a
lawful order to move, disperse, vacate, leave the premises of a disorderly
assembly, or to cease and refrain from any of the activities specified in
division (A) above.
(Ord. 440, passed 9-12-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99 
GAMBLING
§ 130.20 UNDERAGE GAMBLING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
loiter about or within any poolroom, billiard hall, or any building in which
any games of pool, billiards, cards, or other games of like character take
place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, manager, or employee
of any owner, proprietor or manager of any pool hall, billiard hall, or any
other such building in which such games are played within the city, to allow
persons under the age of 21 years to play any of said games in any of said
places, or buildings, or to allow persons under said age to be in, loiter, or
loaf about said places.
(Ord. 60, passed 10-19-1901) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 PLACES OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Any persons who shall play a roulette, chuck-a-luck, poker, monte, or
any other gambling game or game of chance where money or any article of value
is staked shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined.
   (B)   No person or persons shall keep, own, or conduct a house, shop, or
place resorted to for the purpose of gambling, nor permit or suffer any person
in any house, shop, or place under his or her or their control to play at
cards, dice, faro, keno, roulette, equality, or other games for money, other
things, or things representing money or property, or allow any other gambling
game or game of chance where money, other property, or things representing
money is staked.
(Ord. 16, passed 8-11-1892; Ord. 78, passed 3-7-1907) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 NUISANCE.
   (A)   The following matters, things, erections, substances, and articles,
and the same are hereby declared to be nuisances; viz: all gambling tables;
devices; boards; cards; dice; dice boxes used in games or upon which are played
any games of chance for money; or other property representing money or
property.
   (B)   Police officers and other officers of the police force are hereby
authorized and required to go into and upon any house, shop, or other place in
the city for the purpose of abating any nuisance, and any police officer or
other officer of the police force in the city who are authorized or enjoined to
arrest any person or persons for the violation of the provisions of division
(A) above are equally authorized and enjoined to seize and take any deck of
cards, dice, or other articles or apparatus suitable to be used for gambling
purposes found in the possession or under the control of person or persons so
arrested, and to deliver the same to the magistrate before whom the person so
arrested is required to be taken; and any gambling device brought before said
court shall be destroyed.
(Ord. 78, passed 3-7-1907)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code or ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of loitering as described in §
130.02(A) shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $100; and in default of
payment of said fine may be compelled to work upon the public streets at the
rate of $1.25 per day and board for each ten hours work thereof, until said
fine is fully satisfied, and costs.
      (2)   Any person convicted of the misdemeanor described in §
130.02(B) shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $50, to be paid into
the city treasury for the use of city; and in default thereof, to be imprisoned
in the city jail not less than three days, nor more than 50 days, at hard labor
or not, as the court before whom such conviction is had may direct.
      (3)   Any person persisting in insulting, annoying, or communicating with
such prisoner, as described in §
130.02(F), after having been commanded by the officer to desist, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $10 or by imprisonment not exceeding ten days.
   (C)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of §
130.20 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be
fined in a sum not less than $5, nor more than $100.
   (D)   (1) Any person convicted of the provisions described in §
130.21(A) shall be fined in any sum not less than $10, nor more than $100.
      (2)    Any person violating any of the provisions of §
130.21(B) shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not less than $25,
nor more than $100.
(Ord. 16, passed 8-11-1892; Ord. 52, passed 5-17-1899; Ord. 60, passed 10-19-
1901; Ord. 78, passed 3-7-1907)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   TRAILERS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building permits; fees
Codes Adopted
   
150.15   International Existing Building Code   
   
150.16   International Building Code
   
150.17   International Residential Building Code
   
150.18   International Property Maintenance Code
Fire Limits
   
150.30   Building permits
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The base valuation to determine permit fees is based upon a
dollar per square foot schedule in accordance with the following. The bid price
must be quoted for new renovations or remodels. Work done by the resident
(self-help) will be valued at the triple of cost of materials estimate.
      (2)   Residential permits – building permit value for new construction
and additions thereto:
Dwellings – Single-Family Dwelling, Duplexes, Base Cost per Square Foot
Townhouses
Dwellings – Single-Family Dwelling, Duplexes,   Base Cost per Square Foot
Townhouses
Finished habitable space                          $80 per square foot
Finished basement                                 $40 per square foot
Unfinished space (basement or upper levels)       $30 per square foot
Attached garages                                  $25 per square foot
Detached garages                                  $22 per square foot
Storage sheds (garden up to 10x12)                $12 per square foot
Other storage shed                                $20 per square foot
Interior remodeling                               $22 per square foot
Wood patio                                        $10 per square foot
Concrete flatwork                                 $2 per square foot
All other permits will be based on actual project -
cost
 
      (3)   Commercial buildings:
 
Pole shed or other storage shed $20 per square foot
Finished building               $75 per square foot
 
   (B)   Certain “non-valued” fees be adopted as follows:
 
Fence     $30
Reroofing $30
Residing  $30
 
   (C)   (1)   All new residential construction shall be charged a base permit
fee of $100 plus the permit fee from the following table under division (C)(2):
residential permit fee schedule.
      (2)   Residential permit fee schedule:
Total Valuation Fee
Total Valuation    Fee
$0 – $1,000      $18
$1,001 – $5,000  $18 + $4.75 for each additional $1,000
$5,001 – $10,000 $45 + $4.75 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over
                   the first $5,000
$10,001 – $20,000$60 +$4.50 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over
                   the first $10,000
$20,001 – $30,000$100 + $4.25 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over
                   the first $20,000
$30,001 – $40,000$140 + $4 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over
                   the first $30,000
$40,001 – $50,000$180 + $3.75 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over
                   the first $40,000
$50,001 – $60,000$220 + $3.50 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over
                   the first $50,000
$60,001 – $70,000$260 + $3.25 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over
                   the first $60,000
$70,001 – $100,00$300 + $3 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over
                   the first $70,000
$100,01 – $150,00$350 + $2.75 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over
                   the first $100,000
$150,000 and up    $400 + $2.50 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over
                   the first $150,000
 
   (D)   (1)   All new commercial construction shall be charged a base permit
fee of $50, plus the permit fee from the following table under division (D)(3):
commercial permit fee schedule.
      (2)   The value to be used in computing the building permit fee for all
commercial construction, remodeling, renovation, and repairs shall be the total
value of all construction work for which the permits is issued as well as all
finished work, painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, elevators, fire-extinguishing system, and other permanent
equipment exclusive of site improvements and parking lots costs.
      (3)   Commercial permit fee schedule:
Total Valuation Fee
Total Valuation     Fee
$1 – $3,000       $50 for the first $500 + $3 for each additional $100 or
                    part thereof over the first $1,000
$3,001 – $10,000  $100 for the first $3,000 + $3.50 for each additional
                    $1,000 or part thereof over the first $3,000
$10,001 – $25,000 $150 for the first $10,000 + $3.75 for each additional
                    $1,000 or part thereof over the first $10,000
$25,001 – $50,000 $250 for the first $25,000 + $6.00 for each additional
                    $1,000 or part thereof over the first $25,000
$50,001 – $100,000$300 for the first $50,000 + $4.00 for each additional
                    $1,000 or part thereof over the first $50,000
$100,001 – $500,00$500 for the first $100,000 + $3.50 for each additional
                    $1,000 or part thereof over the first $100,000
$500,001 and up     $600 for the first $500,00 + $3.00 for each additional
                    $1,000 or part thereof over the first $500,000
 
(Res. 2019-02, passed 1-7-2019) Penalty, see §
150.99
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.15 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 edition, including
Resource A, Guidelines on Fire Ratings of Archaic Materials and Assemblies, as
published by the International Code Council Incorporated, and amendments and
additions thereto as provided in this article, are hereby adopted as the
existing building code by the city for regulating and governing the repair,
alteration, change of occupancy, addition, and relocation of existing
buildings, including historic buildings, as herein provided and provides for
the issuance of permits and the collection of fees therefor.
   (B)   The adoption of the International Existing Building Code, 2018
edition, will become effective September 1, 2019. The minimum building
standards in the 2018 edition of the International Existing Building Code, and
amendments thereto, shall be applied to any building permit issued after
September 1, 2019.
   (C)   The following sections and subsections of the existing building code
adopted in this subchapter shall be amended, added, or deleted as follows. All
other sections or subsections of the 2018 International Existing Building Code
shall remain the same.
[A] 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the existing building code
of the City of Garretson, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
[A] 103.1 Enforcement agency. Building services is hereby created, and the
official in charge thereof shall be known as the code official.
[A] 103.2 Appointment. By the Governing Body of the jurisdiction.
[A] 104.8 Liability. The code official, member of the board of appeals, or
employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the
jurisdiction in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties
required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be
rendered civilly or criminally liable personally and is hereby relieved from
personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result
of any act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official
duties. This code shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating, or controlling any building or
structure for any damages to persons or property caused by defects, nor shall
the code enforcement agency or the city be held as assuming any such liability
by reason of the inspection authorized by this code or any permits or
certificates issued under this code.
[A] 104.8.1 Legal defense. Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against an
officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in
the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code shall be
afforded all the protection provided by the city’s insurance pool and
immunities and defenses provided by other applicable state and federal laws and
shall be defended by legal representatives of the jurisdiction until the final
termination of the proceedings. The code official or any subordinate shall not
he liable for cost in any action, suit, or proceeding that is instituted in
pursuance of the provisions of this code.
[A] 104.11 Alternative materials, design and methods of construction, and
equipment. The provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the
installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of
construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such
alternative has been approved. An alternative material, design, or method of
construction shall be approved where the code official finds that the proposed
design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the provisions of this
code, and that the material, method, or work offered is, for the purpose
intended, not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code in
quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety.
[A] 105.1 Required. Any owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to
repair, add to, alter, relocate, demolish, or change the occupancy of a
building or to repair, install, add, alter, remove, convert, or replace any
electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system, the installation of which is
regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to be performed, shall first
make application to the code official and obtain the required permit. The code
official may exempt permits for minor work.
[A] 105.1.1 Annual permit. Not adopted by the city.
[A] 105.1.2 Annual permit records. Not adopted by the city.
108.7 Delinquent accounts. The city may refuse to issue permits or conduct
inspections for any person or business whose account is delinquent.
[A] W93.1 Footing or foundation inspection. Footing and foundation inspections
shall be made after excavations for footings are complete and any required
reinforcing steel is in place. If an inspection is required for concrete
foundations, any required forms shall be in place prior to inspection.
Materials for the foundation shall be on the job, except where concrete is
ready mixed in accordance with ASTM C 94, the concrete need not be on the job.
[A] 110.1 Change of occupancy. No building shall be used or occupied, and
change in the existing use or occupancy classification of a building or portion
thereof shall not be made until the code official has issued a certificate of
occupancy therefor as provided herein. Issuance of a certificate of occupancy
shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this
code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction.
[A] 110.2 Certificate issued. After the code official inspects the building and
does not find violations of the provisions of this code or other laws that are
enforced by Building Services, the code official shall issue a certificate of
occupancy that shall contain the following:
1. The building permit number.
2. The address of the structure.
3. A statement that the described portion of the structure has been inspected
for compliance with the requirements of this code for the occupancy and
division of occupancy and the use for which the proposed occupancy is
classified.
4. The name of the code official.
5. The edition of the code under which the permit was issued.
6. The use and occupancy in accordance with the provisions of the International
Building Code,
7. The type of construction as defined in the International Building Code.
8. The design occupant load in assembly occupancies only.
9. If fire protection systems are provided, whether the fire protection systems
are required.
10. Any special stipulations and conditions of the building permit.
[A] 112.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or
determinations made by the building and fire code officials relative to the
application and interpretation of this code and the fire code, to review all
prospective changes to the respective codes and to submit recommendations to
the responsible official and the city council, to approve permits for house
moves, and to examine applicants for licensing and to investigate matters
brought to the board, there shall be and is hereby created a board of appeals.
Members shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council by the governing body and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board
shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all
decisions in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to building
services.
[A] 112.2 Limitations on authority. An application for appeal shall be based on
a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed.
The board shall not have authority relative to the administrative provisions of
this code nor shall the board be empowered to waive requirements of this code.
[A] 113.3 Prosecution of violation. If the notice of violation is not complied
with promptly, the code official is authorized to request the legal counsel of
the jurisdiction to deem the violation as a strict liability offense and
institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct,
or abate such violation or to require the removal or termination of the
unlawful occupancy of the building or structure in violation of the provisions
of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
Section 202—General Definitions. Add the following definition:
STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense, in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding, is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited,
or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
302.3 Additional codes. Alterations, repairs, additions and changes of
occupancy to, or relocation of, existing buildings and structures shall comply
with the provisions for alterations, repairs, additions and changes of
occupancy or relocation, respectively, in this code and the International
Energy Conservation Code, International Fire Code, International Fuel Gas Code,
International Mechanical Code, Uniform Plumbing Code, International Property
Maintenance Code, International Residential Code, and NFPA 70. Where provisions
of the other codes conflict with provisions of this code, the provisions of
this code shall take precedence.
406.1 Material. Existing electrical wiring and equipment undergoing repair
shall be allowed to be repaired or replaced with like material. Minor
additions, alterations, and repairs to existing electrical systems or equipment
may be installed in accordance with the law in effect at the time the original
installation was made, when approved by the electrical inspector.
406.1.4 Group B and Group 1-2 Receptacles. Receptacles in patient bed locations
of Group B medical offices and ambulatory health care facilities, and Group 1-
2 that are not “hospital grade” shall be replaced with “hospital grade”
receptacles, as required by NFPA 99 and Article 517 of NFPA 70.
406.1.6 New electrical service entrances in existing single-family and
multiple-family dwellings. When adding a new service entrance with increased
amperage, the existing electrical system shall, at a minimum, comply with the
following:
(1) Kitchens. Each kitchen shall have a minimum of one 20-ampere circuit
serving a countertop receptacle and a grounded receptacle serving a
refrigerator.
(2) Overcurrent device location. Each occupant shall have access to his branch
circuit overcurrent devices without going outdoors or through another
occupancy.
(3) Habitable areas. All habitable areas, other than closets, kitchens,
basements, garages, hallways, laundry areas, utility areas, storage areas, and
bathrooms, shall have a minimum of two duplex receptacle outlets, or one duplex
receptacle outlet and one ceiling or wall type lighting outlet.
(4) Minimum lighting outlets. At least one lighting fixture shall be provided
in every habitable room, bathroom, hallway, stairway, attached garage, and
detached garage with electrical power, in utility rooms and basements where
such spaces are used for storage or contain equipment requiring service, and to
illuminate outdoor entrances and exits.
(5) Groundfault circuit interrupters. Ground fault circuit interrupter
protection shall be provided for all receptacles in bathrooms, above kitchen
counters, attached and detached garages provided with power, at readily
accessible receptacles within 6 feet of sinks, unfinished basements, and at
outdoor locations. The exceptions of the National Electrical Code 210.8(A) 3
and 5 shall apply.
(6) Laundries. Each laundry shall be provided with at least one separate 20-
ampere circuit.
(7) Heat sources. Any heat source shall be provided with a separate circuit.
(8) Exposed wiring methods. All exposed wiring methods shall be installed in
accordance with the applicable National Electrical Code article.
408.1 Materials. Plumbing materials and supplies shall not be used for repairs
that are prohibited in the Uniform Plumbing Code.
702.6 Materials and methods. New work shall comply with the materials and
methods requirements in the International Building Code, International
Residential Code, International Energy Conservation Code, International
Mechanical Code, International Fuel Gas Code, NFPA 70, and the Uniform Plumbing
Code, as applicable, that specify material standards, detail of installation
and connection, joints, penetrations, and continuity of any element, component,
or system in the building.
[M] 702.6.2 International Mechanical Code. The following sections of the
International Mechanical Code shall constitute the mechanical materials and
methods requirements for Level 1 alterations:
1. All of Chapter 3, entitled “General Regulations”, except Sections 303.7 and
306.
2. All of Chapter 8, entitled “Chimneys and Vents.”
3. All of Chapter 9, entitled “Specific Appliances.”
[R] 702.6.3 International Residential Code. The following sections of Part
V—Mechanical of the International Residential Code shall constitute the
residential mechanical and fuel gas materials and methods requirements for
Level 1 alterations:
1. All of Chapter 13, entitled “General Mechanical System Requirements”, except
Section M1305.
2. All of Chapter 18, entitled “Chimneys and Vents.”
3. All of Sections G2431 through G2454 governing the appliances and equipment
specifically identified therein.
805.3.1.2.1 Fire escape access and details. Fire escapes shall comply with all
of the following requirements:
1. Occupants shall have unobstructed access to the fire escape without having
to pass through a room subject to locking.
2. Access to a new fire escape shall be through a door, except that windows
shall be permitted to provide access from single dwelling units or sleeping
units in Group R-1, R-2, and LI occupancies or to provide access from spaces
having a maximum occupant load of 10 in other occupancy classifications.
2.1. The window shall have a minimum net clear opening of 5 square feet (0.46
rm).
2.2 The minimum net clear opening height shall be 24 inches (610 mm) and net
clear opening width shall be 20 inches (508 mm).
2.3. The bottom of the clear opening shall not be greater than 48 inches (1,219
mm) above the floor.
2.4. The operation of the window shall comply with the operational constraints
of the International Building Code.
3. Newly constructed fire escapes shall be permitted only where exterior
stairways cannot be utilized because of lot lines limiting the stairway size or
because of the sidewalks, alleys, or roads at grade level.
4. Openings within 10 feet (3,048 mm) of fire escape stairways shall be
protected by fire assemblies having minimum 3/4-hour fire resistance ratings.
Exception: Opening protection shall not be required in buildings equipped
throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system.
5. In all buildings of Group E occupancy, up to and including the 12th grade,
buildings of Group I occupancy, rooming houses and childcare centers, ladders
of any type are prohibited on fire escapes used as a required means of egress.
810.1 Minimum fixtures. Where the occupant load of the story is increased by
more than 20 percent, plumbing fixtures for the story shall be provided in
quantities specified in Chapter 29, Plumbing Systems of the International
Building Code based on the increased occupant load.
1009-1 Increased demand. “Where the occupancy of an existing building or part
of an existing building is changed such that the new occupancy is subject to
increased or different plumbing fixture requirements or to increased water
supply requirements in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing Code, the new
occupancy shall comply with the intent of the respective Uniform Plumbing Code
provisions.
1010.2 Food-handling occupancies. If the new occupancy is a food-handling
establishment, ah existing sanitary waste lines above the food or drink
preparation or storage areas shall be panned or otherwise protected to prevent
leaking pipes or condensation on pipes from contaminating food or drink. New
drainage lines shall not be installed above such areas and shall be protected
in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing Code.
1010.3 Interceptor required. If the new occupancy will produce grease or oil-
laden wastes, interceptors shall be provided as required in the Uniform
Plumbing Code.
1010.5 Group I-2. If the occupancy group is changed to Group 1-2, the plumbing
system shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Uniform Plumbing
Code.
TABLE 1011.4
MEANS OF EGRESS HAZARD CATEGORIES
Relative Hazard Occupancy Classifications
1 (Highest Hazard)          H; I-2; I-3; I-4
2                I-1; R-1; R-2; R-4, Condition 2
3                A; E; M; R-4, Condition 1
4                B; F-1; S-1; R-3
5 (Lowest Hazard)          F-2; S-2; U
1011.4.1 Means of egress for change to higher hazard category. Where a change
of occupancy classification is made to a higher hazard category (lower number)
as shown in Table 1011.4, the means of egress shall comply with the
requirements of Chapter 10 of the International Building Code.
Exceptions:
1. Stairways shall be enclosed in compliance with the applicable provisions of
Section 903.1.
2. Existing stairways including handrails and guards complying with the
requirements of Chapter 9 shall be permitted for continued use subject to
approval of the code official.
3. Any stairway replacing an existing stairway within a space where the pitch
or slope cannot be reduced because of existing construction shall not be
required to comply with the maximum riser height and minimum tread depth
requirements.
4. Existing corridor walls constructed on both sides of wood lath and plaster
in good condition or 1/2-inch-thick (12.7 mm) gypsum wallboard shall be
permitted. Such walls shall either terminate at the underside of a ceiling of
equivalent construction or extend to the underside of the floor or roof next
above.
5. Existing corridor doorways, transoms, and other corridor openings shall
comply with the requirements in Sections S05.SA, 805.5.2, and 805.5.3.
6. Existing dead-end corridors shall comply with the requirements in Section
805.6.
7. An existing operable window with clear opening area no less than 4 square
feet (0.38 mi) and minimum opening height and width of 22 inches (559 mm) and
20 inches (508 mm), respectively, provided the operable window has a sill
height of not more than 48 inches (1,219 mm) above the floor, shall be accepted
as an emergency escape and rescue opening.
TABLE 1011.5
HEIGHTS AND AREAS HAZARD CATEGORIES
Relative Hazard Occupancy Classifications
1 (Highest Hazard)          H; I-2; I-3; I-4
               A-1; A-2; A-3; A-4; I-1; R-1; R-2; R-4,
2                Condition 2
3                E; F-1; S-1; M
4 (Lowest Hazard)          B; F-2; S-2; A-5; R-3; R-4, Condition 1; U
1011.6.2 Exterior wall rating for change of occupancy classification to an
equal or lesser hazard category. When a change of occupancy classification is
made to an equal or lesser hazard category as shown in Table 1011.6, existing
exterior walls, including openings, shall be accepted.
Exception. Where a property line is platted creating a Group R-3, multifamily
dwelling (townhouse), the walls separating the dwelling units shall be
constructed to provide a continuous fire separation using construction
materials consistent with the existing wall or complying with the requirements
for a new structure. The fire-resistive elements are not required to be
continuous between concealed floor spaces, although there shall be provided a
draft-stop, located above and in line with the dwelling unit separation walls.
SECTION 1106
STORM SHELTERS Not adopted by the city.
1401.2 Conformance. The building shall be safe for human occupancy as
determined by the International Fire Code and the International Property
Maintenance Code. Any repair, alteration, or change of occupancy undertaken
within the moved structure shall comply with the requirements of this code
applicable to the work being performed. Any field-fabricated elements shall
comply with the requirements of the International Building Code or the
International Residential Code as applicable.
Exceptions:
1. Manufactured homes used as a dwelling and located in a licensed manufactured
home park.
2. Structures used as a temporary office or shelter on a construction or
development site when approved by the building official.
3. Structures used as a temporary business office for a period as specified in
Section [A] 108.1 of the International Building Code when approved by the
building official and provided it meets the applicable accessibility
requirements of this code.
4. Manufactured homes used as a sales office at a location where such homes are
offered for sale, provided it meets the applicable accessibility requirements
of this code.
1401.3 Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following words and
phrases mean:
1. Building mover. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association
who engages in the business or work of moving a building across public property
within the city.
2. Building moving. The moving of any house, building, structure, or any part
or parts thereof, except structures or parts of structures less than 12 feet
wide and 13.5 feet high when loaded, from one location to another when moving
requires traveling upon, across, along, or over any street, avenue, highway,
thoroughfare, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground in the city. This term
does not apply to manufactured or modular structures or assemblies that do not
exceed 15 feet in height and 16.6 feet in width including all nonstructural
appendages, or a length of 80.6 feet including all nonstructural appendages.
3. Agency. The planning and building services department, police department,
city forester, and city engineering department.
1401.4 License required. No person except a building mover licensed by the city
shall move any building, house, or structure, or part thereof, across, along,
or over any public property.
1401.5 License application. Any person desiring to engage in the business of
building moving must file a written application for the building mover’s
license in the city engineering department.
1401.6 Bonding. The applicant for a building mover’s license shall file with
the application a bond running to the city in the penal sum of $10,000.00 with
sufficient sureties and conditioned that the license will comply with all city
requirements to the satisfaction of the city engineering department and shall
encompass repairs due to any damage to any sidewalk, crosswalk, hydrant, sheet,
alley, or other property done or caused by himself, his servants, or employees
in connection with moving any building.
The bond will guarantee payment for damages to property and payment to the city
for services provided by the city. The license will indemnify and save harmless
the city against any and all liability for damages, costs, or expenses arising
out of any negligence on his part or on the part of his servants or employees
in connection with the moving of any building or the use of any public street
or ground for that purpose.
1401.7 Revocation. A building mover’s license may be revoked at any time if the
mover violates the provisions of this chapter or rules established by the
agency, or conducts his business in a careless or reckless manner, or refuses
to make prompt payment of any sums due the city from him under any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whose bond or insurance as required herein has
been canceled or otherwise terminated.
1401.8 Transferability. No license or permit issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be transferable.
1401.9 Permits required. No person shall engage in building moving unless and
until he has obtained a building moving permit, which will not be issued to
anyone except a person licensed as the building mover. Such permit shall be
obtained not less than 48 hours prior to the move.
1401.10 Prerequisites to a permit. No permit to move a building shall be issued
as hereunder provided until the following conditions have been satisfied:
1. A permit for capping the sanitary sewer service and/or water service shall
be obtained pursuant to Section 50.020: Permit To Raze or Remove Building
Required and Section 50.021; Disconnection, of the Code of Ordinances of
Garretson, SD.
2. A building permit is required to place a one- or two-family dwelling in a
residential zoning district on the property described on the application if
located in the city. Before a city building permit can be issued for a one- or
two-family dwelling to be moved in a residential zoning district, the applicant
shall post the property. A hearing before the building board of appeals will be
required prior to the issuance of the building permit upon request from the
public. A hearing will be initiated and scheduled at the request of the public
within the time period of posting the signs per Item 1 below. The request shall
be in writing on forms provided by building services. Before any action can be
taken by the board, the applicant shall:
   1. Post the property where the dwelling is to be moved for a continuous
period of not less than five working days with    signs furnished by the
building official. At least two signs shall be posted. The applicant shall
submit a written oath that    the signs were properly posted.
   2. Submit one certified copy of the restrictions and covenants of the
property where the dwelling is proposed to be    moved. Those portions
applicable to the dwelling shall be highlighted. If the property contains no
restrictions or covenants, a statement to that fact shall be submitted.
   3. Submit a proposed site plan containing the legal description where the
dwelling is proposed to be moved.
   4. Submit the inspection report from the building inspector.
   5. Submit original clear photographs of the front, rear, and side elevations
of the dwelling to be moved.
3. Any person filing an application for a moving permit shall file with the
city engineer a liability insurance policy issued by the insurance company
authorized to do business in this state and approved as to form by the city
attorney in the following amounts: $250,000.00 per person, $500,000.00 per
accident, $500,000.00 property damage.
4. When required by the building official, satisfactory evidence from a
licensed pest control company that all nuisance pests have been exterminated
from the structure.
5. Approval of the route and time of move by the city traffic engineer and city
forester.
6. Approval from planning and building services concerning the moving of any
building or structure in the historic district.
1401.11 Permit application. The application shall contain the date or dates of
the moving of the building, house, or structure; a detailed statement setting
forth the proposed route to be followed; the name of the person in charge of
the move; the location of the premises to which the structure or building is to
be moved; and an agreement that the applicant will immediately report any
damage done by the moving operation to any public property and will indemnify
and hold the city harmless from any claims or damages for injuries to persons
or property resulting from the moving of the building or structure.
1401.12 Fees.
1. The fee for a permit for a house shall be $75.00.
2. The fee for a permit for all other structures shall be $50.00.
3. The following fees shall be paid for services provided by city departments:
3.1. Street department/traffic device service worker or vehicle:
3.1.1. $20.00 per hour for each traffic service worker.
3.1.2. $15.00 per hour for each pickup.
3.13. $15.00 per hour for a one-half-ton utility pickup.
3.1.4. $25.00 per hour for each aerial.
Expenses shall be calculated from the date and hour the move will commence
until the move is actually completed. Overtime expense will be computed at one
and one-half times the hourly rate.
1401.13 Denial. If the applicant fails to agree or comply with the conditions
as set forth herein or if in the judgment of the building official the building
or structure is in such a state of disrepair that it would not be safe to move
the building, or if in the judgment of the traffic engineer or the city
forester the proposed move would result in an undue hazard to public traffic or
undue damage to streets, sidewalks, trees, or other public property, the permit
will be denied and reasons therefor endorsed upon the application.
1401.14 Restrictions on moving through streets. All moving of the building once
started shall continue until completed, and no building shall be parked along
the route unless deemed an emergency and approved by the traffic engineer. The.
traffic engineer may require police escorts, temporary removal of traffic
devices, or may restrict or specify the day and hours during which the moving
operation must be accomplished.
1401.15 Posting. Two moving placards must be posted on a visible location on
opposite ends of the building being moved during the entire move, and the
person moving the building must carry a signed duplicate of the permit.
1401.16 Escorts. Movers shall provide a front and rear escort for all
movements.
1401.17 Flags. Red and orange flags, 12 inches by 12 inches, must be fastened
to the rear corners of the moving structure.
1401.18 Notice to public service companies, cable TV operations, and the city
of Sioux Falls. Before moving any building, the building mover shall notify
Metro Communications (911) immediately prior to entering public property. The
mover shall make arrangements with the police department and traffic engineers
48 hours prior to the move if a police escort is required. The mover shall also
give 48 hours notice to all city departments, public service operations, and
cable TV operators whose wires, traffic control devices, or other appliances
which affect the moving of such building of the time when the move is to take
place and request and arrange for the passage of such building. Such building
mover shall pay to the city and said corporation and operators the reasonable
cost and expense of the work required to be done.
1401.19 Tampering with private property. The mover during all moves shall obey
all laws pertaining to tampering with private property and vehicles on the
street. Tampering with any wires or facilities belonging to private or public
service companies is prohibited.
1401.20 Reporting damage. The building mover shall immediately report any
damage done by the moving operation to any street, sidewalk, curb, utility
equipment, tree sign, or other public or private property to the city engineer.
(Ord. 645, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 150.16 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The International Building Code, 2018 edition, including Appendix C
and Appendix I as published by the International Code Council Incorporated, and
amendments and additions thereto as provided in this article, are hereby
adopted as the building code by the city for regulating the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition,
conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of all
buildings and structures providing for the issuance of permits and collection
of fees therefor.
   (B) The adoption of the International Building Code, 2018 edition, will
become effective July 1, 2019. The minimum building standards in the 2018
edition of the International Building Code and amendments thereto shall be
applied to any building permit issued after July 1, 2019.
   (C)   The following sections and subsections of the 2018 International
Building Code adopted in this subchapter shall be amended, added, or not
adopted by the city as follows. All other sections or subsections of the 2018
International Building Code as published shall remain the same.
[A] 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the building code of the
city of Garretson, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
[A] 101.4.1 Gas. The provisions of the International Fuel Gas Code or the
plumbing code shall apply to the installation of gas piping from the point of
delivery, gas appliances and related accessories as covered in this code. These
requirements apply to gas piping systems extending from the point of delivery
to the inlet connections of appliances and the installation and operation of
residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories. As to State
code.
[A] 101.4.3 Plumbing. The provisions of the plumbing code shall apply to the
installation, alteration, repair, and replacement of plumbing systems,
including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances, and
where connected to a water or sewage system and all aspects of a medical gas
system. As to State code.
101.4.8 Electrical. The provisions of the NFPA 70 shall apply to the
installation of electrical systems, including alterations, repairs,
replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances
thereto. As to State code.
[A] 103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. Building services is hereby created
and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the building official.
[A] 103.2 Appointment. By the local Governing Board of the Jurisdiction.
[A] 104.8 Liability. The building official, member of the board of appeals or
employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the
jurisdiction in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties
required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be
civilly or criminally rendered liable personally and is hereby relieved from
personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result
of any act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official
duties. This code shall not be construed to relieve or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating, or controlling any building or
structure for any damages to persons or property caused by defects, nor shall
the city, or its officers and employees, be held as assuming any such liability
by reason of the inspections authorized by this code or any permits or
certificates issued under this code.
[A] 104.8.1 Legal defense. Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against an
officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in
the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code shall be
afforded all the protection provided by the city’s insurance pool and any
immunities and defenses provided by other applicable state and federal law and
defended by legal representatives of the jurisdiction until the final
termination of the proceedings. The building official or any subordinate shall
not be liable for cost in any action, suit, or proceeding that is instituted in
pursuance of the provisions of tins code.
[A] 104.10.1 Flood hazard areas. The floodplain administrator shall not grant
modifications to any provision required in flood hazard areas as established by
FEMA Floodplain Management, unless a determination has been made that:
1. A showing of good and sufficient cause that the unique characteristics of
the size, configuration, or topography of the site render the elevation
standards of FEMA Floodplain Management, inappropriate.
2. A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship by rendering the lot undevelopable.
3. A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing laws or ordinances.
4. A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief,
considering the flood hazard.
5. Submission to the applicant of written notice specifying the difference
between the design flood elevation and the elevation to which the building is
to be built, stating that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with
the increased risk resulting from the reduced floor elevation, and stating that
construction below the design flood elevation increases risks to life and
property.
[A] 105.1 Required. Any owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a
building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert, or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system, the
installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to
be performed, shall first make application to the building official and obtain
the required permit. The building official may exempt permits for minor work.
[A] 105.2 Work exempt from permit. Exemptions from permit requirements of this
code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any
manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or
ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the
following.
Building:
1. One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds,
playhouses, and similar uses, provided the floor area is not greater than 200
square feet (18.6 mi). A placement permit is required by the zoning division.
2. Fences not over 7 feet (2,134 mm) high. A fence is required to meet zoning
rules.
3. Oil derricks.
4. Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1,219 mm) in height measured from
the bottom grade elevation to the top of the wall, unless supporting a
surcharge or impounding Class I, II, or IIIA liquids.
5. Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity is not greater than
5,000 gallons (18,927 l) and the ratio of height to diameter or width is not
greater than 2:1.
6. Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above adjacent
grade, and not over any basement or story below and are not part of an
accessible route. A driveway permit is required by the zoning division. A
sidewalk permit is required by the engineering division.
7. Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, countertops, and similar
finish work.
8. Temporary motion picture, television, and theater stage sets and scenery.
9. Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a Group R-3 occupancy that are
less than 18 inches (457 mm) deep.
10. Shade cloth structures constructed for nursery or agricultural purposes,
not including service systems.
11. Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one- and two-
family dwellings.
12. Window awnings in Group R-3 and U occupancies, supported by an exterior
wall that do not project more than 54 inches (1,372 mm) from the exterior wall
and do not require additional support.
13. Non fixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters, and partitions not
over 5 feet 9 inches (1,753 mm) in height.
Electrical:
1. Repairs and maintenance: Minor repair work, including the replacement of
lamps or the connection of approved portable electrical equipment to approved
permanently installed receptacles.
2. Radio and television transmitting stations: The provisions of this code
shall not apply to electrical equipment used for radio and television
transmissions, but do apply to equipment and wiring for a power supply and the
installations of towers and antennas.
3. Temporary testing systems: A permit shall not be required for the
installation of any temporary system required for the testing or servicing of
electrical equipment or apparatus.
Gas:
   1. Portable heating appliance.
   2. Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment
or make such equipment unsafe.
Mechanical:
1. Portable heating appliance.
2. Portable ventilation equipment.
3. Portable cooling unit.
4. Steam, hot, or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling equipment
regulated by this code.
5. Replacement of any part that does not alter its approval or make it unsafe.
6. Portable evaporative cooler.
7. Self-contained refrigeration system containing 10 pounds (4.54 kg) or less
of refrigerant and actuated by motors of 1 horsepower (0.75 kW) or less.
Plumbing:
1. The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe, provided,
however, that if any concealed trap, drain pipe, water, soil, waste or vent
pipe becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the same
with new material, such work shall be considered as new work and a permit shall
be obtained and inspection made as provided in this code under State code.
2. The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes, valves, or
fixtures and the removal and reinstallation of water closets, provided such
repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of valves,
pipes, or fixtures.
105.3 Application for permit. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first
file an application therefor in writing on a form for that purpose. Such
application shall:
1. Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made.
2. Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal
description, street address, or similar description that will readily identify
and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
3. Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed work is intended.
4. Be accompanied by construction documents and other information as required
in Section 107.
5. State the valuation of the proposed work.
6. Be signed by the applicant, or the applicant’s authorized agent.
7. Give such other data and information as required by the building official.
[A] 107.1 General. Submittal documents consisting of one complete set of plans
in an electronic submittal in PDF format along with other construction
documents, statement of special inspections, geotechnical report, and other
data shall be submitted with each permit application. The construction
documents shall be prepared by a registered design professional where required
by the statutes of the jurisdiction in which the project is to be constructed.
Where special conditions exist, the building official is authorized to require
additional construction documents to be prepared by a registered design
professional.
Exception: The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work
applied for is such that review of construction documents is not necessary to
obtain compliance with this code.
[A] 107.3.1 Approval of construction documents. When the building official
issues a permit, the construction documents shall be reviewed for compliance.
One set of construction documents so reviewed shall be retained by the building
official.
[A] 109.2 Schedule of permit fees. On buildings, structures, electrical, gas,
mechanical, and plumbing systems or alterations requiring a permit, a fee for
each permit shall be paid as required in accordance with the schedule as
established by the applicable governing authority. The fee schedules for the
issuance of a building permit shall be as follows: SET BY RESOLUTION NO. 2019-
02.
TABLE NO. 1-C. OTHER INSECTIONS AND FEES.
 
Inspections outside of normal business hours*(minimum charge one hour)  $70.00
Reinspection fee, per hour* (minimum charge one hour)                   $70.00
Inspections for which no fee is specifically, per hour* (minimum charge $70.00
one-half Hour*)
Additional plan review required by charges, additions, or revisions to  $70.00
approved plans, per hour* (minimum charged one-half hour)
 
* Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdictions, whichever is the greater. This
cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wage, and fringe
benefits of the employees involved.
 
Wrecking (razing) permit                                                 $40.00
Swimming pool fence enclosure.                                           $40.00
Residential reshingle                                                    $30.00
Residential reside (Group R and U occupancies)                           $30.00
Residential window replacement with no structural modifications (Group R $40.00
and U Occupancies)
 
10. Board of appeals fees. Before the board takes any action, the party or
parties requesting such hearing shall deposit with the secretary of the board,
or authorized agent, $65.00 to cover the approximate cost of the procedure.
Under no condition shall said sum or any part thereof be refunded for failure
of said request to be approved.
Exception. Appeals referred to the board from the International Property
Maintenance Code.
11. A mileage fee based on the current rate per mile authorized by the Internal
Revenue Service shall be charged for any inspection occurring outside city
limits.
13. When submittal documents are required by Section 106, a plan review fee
shall be paid when it is deemed that a plan review is required. Said plan
review fee shall be 25 percent of the building permit fee as specified on Table
1-B. The plan review fee specified herein is a separate-fee from the building
permit fee and is in addition to the building permit fee. When submittal
documents are incomplete or changed so as to require additional plan review or
when a project involves deferred submittals as defined in Section 106.3.4.2, an
additional plan review fee may be charged at 25 percent of the building permit
fee specified on Table 1-B.
Exception: Group R Division 3 and Group U occupancies.
14. Fee for late corrections. A $100.00 administrative fee may be charged for
failure to correct violations within the time specified on a contractor’s
correction report
15. Fee for failure to request a required inspection. Where building
construction work is completed without a request for an inspection, an
administrative fee of $250.00 may be charged.
109.7 Delinquent accounts. The city may refuse to issue permits or conduct
inspections for any person or business whose account is delinquent.
[A] 110.3.1 Footing inspection. Footing inspections shall be made after
excavations for footings are complete and required reinforcing steel is in
place (two number 4s). If an inspection is required for concrete foundations,
any required forms shall be in place prior to inspection. Materials for the
foundation shall be on the job, except where concrete is ready mixed in
accordance with ASTM C 94, the concrete need not be on the job. And hurricane
straps are required on garage portals three feet or less aud 5/8" anchor bolts.
[A] 111.2 Certificate issued. After the building official inspects the building
or structure and does not find violations of the provisions of this code or
other laws that are enforced by the department of building safety, the building
official shall issue a certificate of occupancy that contains the following:
1. The building permit number.
2. The address of the structure.
3. A statement that the described portion of the structure has been inspected
for compliance with the requirements of this code for the occupancy and
division of occupancy and the use for which the proposed occupancy is
classified.
4. The name of the building official.
5. The edition of the code under which the permit was issued.
6. The use and occupancy, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 3.
7. The type of construction as defined in Chapter 6.
8. The design occupant load.
9. If an automatic sprinkler system is provided, whether the sprinkler system
is required.
10. Any special stipulations and conditions of the building permit.
[A] 113-1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or
determinations made by the building official relative to the application and
interpretation of this code and the fire code, to review all prospective
changes to the respective codes and to submit recommendations to the
responsible official and the city council, to review requests for house moves,
and to examine applicants for licensing and to investigate matters brought
before the council. The council shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting
its business and shall render all decisions in writing to the appellant with a
duplicate copy to the building and/or fire official.
[A] 113.2 Limitations on authority. An application for appeal shall be based on
a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed.
The council shall not have authority relative to the administrative provisions
of this code nor shall the council be empowered to waive requirements of this
code.
[A] 114.3 Prosecution of violation. If the notice of violation is not complied
with promptly, the building official is authorized to request the legal counsel
of the jurisdiction to deem the violation as a strict liability offense and
institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct,
or abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the
unlawful occupancy of the building or structure in violation of the provisions
of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
201.1 Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words and terms
shall, for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter,
in addition, the following words and terms are being added and/or modified to
the defined terms already incorporated by reference of this code.
FIRE AREA. The aggregate floor area enclosed and bounded by fire walls, fire
barriers, exterior walls, or horizontal assemblies of a building.
STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited or
failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
SWIMMING POOL. Any structure intended for swimming, recreational bathing, or
wading that contains water over 18 inches (457 mm) deep. This includes in-
ground, aboveground, and on-ground pools; hot tubs; spas; and fixed-in place
wading pools.
305.2.2 Twelve or fewer children. A facility having twelve or fewer children
receiving such day care shall be classified as part of the primary occupancy.
305.2.3 Twelve or fewer children in a dwelling unit. A facility such as the
above within a dwelling unit and having twelve or fewer children receiving such
day care shall be classified as a Group R-3 occupancy or shall comply with the
International Residential Code.
308.5.4 Twelve or fewer persons receiving care in a dwelling unit. A facility
such as the above within a dwelling unit and having twelve or fewer persons
receiving custodial care shall be classified as a Group R-3 occupancy or shall
comply with the International Residential Code.
423.4 Group E occupancies. All Group E occupancies with an occupant load of 50
or more shall have a storm shelter constructed to withstand a wind of 200 mph.
Exceptions:
1. Group E day care facilities.
2. Group E occupancies accessory to places of religious worship.
3. Buildings meeting the requirements for shelter design in ICC 500.
[F] 501.2 Address identification. New and existing buildings shall be provided
with approved address identification. The address identification shall be
legible and placed in a position that is visible from the street or road
fronting the property. Address identification characters shall contrast with
their background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numbers or alphabetical
letters. Numbers shall not be spelled out. Each character shall be a minimum of
4 inches (102 mm) high with a minimum stroke width of 1/2 inch (12.7 mm). Where
required by the fire code official, address identification shall be provided in
additional approved locations to facilitate emergency response. Multi-building
campus/complex developments addressed on private or public streets shall be
provided with signage at the entrance to the campus/complex indicative of the
address ranges within. Where access is by means of a private road and the
building address cannot be viewed from the public way, a monument, pole, or
other approved sign or means shall be used to identify the structure. Address
identification shall be maintained.
507.2.2 Property lines. Portions of an unlimited area building may be divided
by platted property lines without requiring the construction of party walls if
the whole building has:
1. Permanent open space on all sides as required by Sections 507.3, 507.4,
507.5; and
2. Proper legal agreements are submitted and approved by the building official
and are recorded with the deed for each of the separate properties. These
recorded agreements shall require that the buildings, as divided by property
lines, be in conformance with the applicable provisions of the building and
fire codes, as if the buildings were a single building on a single piece of
property. In addition, the agreement must state that no individual building or
property owner may modify any portion of the building in any way that would not
be in compliance with the building and fire codes.
706.6.2 Buildings with sloped roofs. Where a fire wall serves as an interior
wall for a building, and the roof on one side or both sides of the fire wall
slopes toward the fire wall at a slope greater than 2 units vertical in 12
units horizontal (2:12), the fire wall shall extend to a height equal to the
height of the roof located 4 feet (1,219 mm) from the fire wall plus 30 inches
(762 mm). In no case shall the extension of the fire wall be less than 30
inches (762 mm).
Exception: The fire wall may terminate at the underside of the roof sheathing,
deck, or slab of the lower roof, provided:
1. The roof assemblies within 10 feet (3,048 mm) of the wall has not less than
a 1-hour fire resistance rating and the entire length and span of supporting
elements for the rated roof assembly has a fire-resistance rating of not less
than 1 hour.
2. Openings in the roof on each side of the fire wall shall not be located
within 10 feet (3,048 mm) of the fire wall.
714.5.1.2 Through-penetration firestop system. Through penetrations of the
fire-resistive membrane shall be protected by an approved through-penetration
fire-stop system installed and tested in accordance with ASTM E 814 or UL 1479,
with a minimum positive pressure differential of 0.01 inch of water (2.49 Pa).
The system shall have an F rating/T rating of not less than 1 hour but not less
than the required rating of the floor penetrated.
Exceptions:
1. Floor penetrations contained and located within the cavity of a wall above
the floor or below the floor do not require a T rating.
2. Floor penetrations by floor drains, tub drains, or shower drains contained
and located within the concealed space of a horizontal assembly do not require
a T rating.
3. Floor penetrations of maximum 4-inch (102 mm) nominal diameter penetrating
directly into metal-enclosed electrical power switchgear do not require a T
rating.
716.2.6.1 Door closing. Fire doors shall be latching and self- or automatic-
closing in accordance with this section.
Exceptions:
1. Fire doors located in common walls separating sleeping units in Group R-
1 shall be permitted without automatic- or self-closing devices.
2. The elevator car doors and the associated hoist way enclosure doors at the
floor level designated for recall in accordance with Section 3003.2 shall be
permitted to remain open during Phase I emergency recall operation.
3. Interior doors located in exit enclosures, smoke proof enclosures, and exit
passageways in Group R and I-1 occupancies shall be automatic closing fire door
assemblies in accordance with NFPA 80 and controlled in accordance with NFPA
72.
[F] 903.2.6 Group I. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
buildings with a Group I fire area.
Exceptions:
1. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 9033.1.1
is required in Group I-1 Condition 1 or 2 facilities.
2. An automatic sprinkler system is not required where Group I-4 day care
facilities are at the level of exit discharge and where every room where care
is provided has not fewer than one exterior exit door.
3. In buildings where Group I-4 day care is provided on levels other than the
level of exit discharge, an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with
Section 903.3,1.1 shall be installed on the entire floor where care is
provided, all floors between the level of care and the level of exit discharge,
and all floors below the level of exit discharge other than areas classified as
an open parking garage.
[F] 903.2.8 Group R. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with
Section 903.3 shall be provided throughout all buildings with Groups R-1 and R-
4 fire areas and Group R-2 multifamily residences having six or more dwelling
units.
[F] 903.3.1.1.1 Exempt locations. Automatic sprinklers shall not be required in
the following rooms or areas where such rooms or areas are protected with an
approved automatic fire detection system in accordance with Section 907.2 that
will respond to visible or invisible particles of combustion. Sprinklers shall
not be omitted from a room merely because it is damp, of fire-resistance-rated
construction, or contains electrical equipment.
1. A room where the application of water, or flame and water, constitutes a
serious life or tire hazard.
2. A room or space where sprinklers are considered undesirable because of the
nature of the contents, where approved by the fire code official. Such rooms
shall be separated from the remainder of the building by fire barrier walls and
horizontal assemblies having a fire resistance rating of not less than two
hours.
3. Generator and transformer rooms separated from the remainder of the building
by walls and floor/ceiling or roof-ceiling assemblies having a fire-resistance
rating of not less than two hours.
4. Rooms or areas that are of noncombustible construction with wholly
noncombustible contents.
5. Fire service access elevator machine rooms and machinery spaces.
6. Machine rooms, machinery spaces, control rooms, and control spaces
associated with occupant evacuation elevators designed in accordance with
Section 3008.
[F] 904.12.2 System interconnection. The actuation of the fire suppression
system shall automatically shut down the fuel and/or electrical power supply to
the cooking equipment and all electrical receptacles located beneath the hood.
The fuel and electrical supply reset shall be manual.
[Fl 907.2.1.1 System initiation in Group A occupancies with an occupant load of
1,000 or more. Activation of the fire alarm in Group A occupancies with an
occupant load of 1,000 or more shall initiate a signal using an emergency
voice/alarm communications system in accordance with Section 907.5.2.2.
Exceptions:
1. Group A-3 occupancies used for religious worship.
2. Where approved, the prerecorded announcement is allowed to be manually
deactivated for a period of time, not to exceed three minutes, for the sole
purpose of allowing a live voice announcement from an approved, constantly
attended location.
[F] 907.2.2 Group B. A manual fire alarm system shall be installed in Group B
occupancies where one of the following conditions exists:
1. The combined Group B occupant load of all floors is 500 or more.
2. The Group B occupant load is more than 100 persons above or below the lowest
level of exit discharge.
3. The fire area contains an ambulatory care facility.
4. The Group B occupancy has more than two occupied levels.
Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes are not required where the building is
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance
with Section 903.3.1.1 and the occupant notification appliances will activate
throughout the notification zones upon sprinkler water flow.
[F] 907.2.6.2 Group 1-2. An automatic smoke detection system shall be installed
in corridors in Group I-2 Condition 1 facilities and spaces permitted to be
open to the corridors by Section 407.2. The system shall be activated in
accordance with Section 907.4. Group I-2 Condition 2 occupancies shall be
equipped with an automatic smoke detection system as required in Section 407.
Exception: Corridor smoke detection is not required in smoke compartments that
contain sleeping units where such units are provided with smoke detectors that
comply with UL 268. Such detectors shall provide a visual display on the
corridor side of each sleeping unit and shall provide an audible and visual
alarm at the care providers’ station attending each unit. Smoke detectors
installed as part of an intelligent or addressable fire alarm system capable of
annunciation of room origin at a constantly attended location shall be
acceptable.
[F] 907.2.8.2 Automatic smoke detection system. An automatic smoke detection
system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with
Section 907.5 shall be installed throughout all interior corridors serving
sleeping units and at the top of each stairwell.
Exception: An automatic smoke detection system is not required in buildings
that do not have interior corridors serving sleeping units and where each
sleeping unit has a means of egress door opening directly to an exit or to an
exterior exit access that leads directly to an exit.
[F] 907.2.8.4 Heat detectors. Heat detectors shall be installed in each attic
subdivision or similar areas not otherwise covered by an automatic fire-
extinguishing system.
Exceptions:
1. Heat detection is not required in areas protected by an automatic fire-
extinguishing system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or in
addition to the requirements of Section 903.3.1.2.
2. Heat detectors are not required where the fire partitions extend into and
through the interstitial attic space.
[F] 907.2.9 Group R-2. Fire alarm systems and smoke alarms shall be installed
in Group R-2 occupancies as required in Sections 907.2.9.1 through 907.2.9.5.
[F] 907.2.9.1 Manual fire alarm system. A manual fire alarm system that
activates the occupant notification system in accordance with Section 907.5
shall be installed in Group R-2 occupancies where any of the following
conditions apply:
1. Any dwelling unit or sleeping unit is located three or more stories above
the lowest level of exit discharge.
2. Any dwelling unit or sleeping unit is located more than one story below the
highest level of exit discharge of exits serving the dwelling unit or sleeping
unit.
3. The building contains more than 16 dwelling units or sleeping units.
4. The building contains four or more dwelling units or sleeping units above
the level of exit discharge.
Exceptions:
1. A fire alarm system is not required in buildings not more than two stories
in height where all dwelling units or sleeping units and contiguous attic and
crawl spaces are separated from each other and public or common areas by not
less than 1 -hour fire partitions and each dwelling unit or sleeping unit has
an exit directly to a public way, egress court, or yard.
2. Manual fire alarm boxes are not required where the building is equipped
throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with
Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 and the occupant notification appliances will
automatically activate throughout the notification zones upon a sprinkler water
flow.
3. A fire alarm system is not required in buildings that do not have interior
corridors serving dwelling units and are protected by an approved automatic
sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2,
provided that dwelling units either have a means of egress door opening
directly to an exterior exit access that leads directly to the exits or are
served by open-ended corridors designed in accordance with Section 1027.6,
Exception 3.
907.2.9.4 Smoke detectors. Automatic smoke detection shall be provided in each
stairway and all exit corridors.
907.2.9.5 Heat detectors. Automatic heat detectors shall be installed in each
attic subdivision, any attached garages, and similar areas not otherwise
covered by an automatic fire-extinguishing system.
Exceptions:
1. Automatic heat detection is not required in areas protected by an automatic
fire-extinguishing system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or in
addition to the requirements of Section 903.3.1.2.
2. Automatic heat detectors are not required where the fire partitions extend
into and through the interstitial attic space.
[F] 907.2.12.1.2 Duct smoke detection. Duct smoke detectors complying with
Section 907.3.1 shall be located as follows:
1. In the main return air and exhaust air plenum of each air-conditioning
system having a capacity greater than 2,000 cubic feet per minute (cfm) (0.94
nw/s). Such detectors shall be located in a serviceable area downstream of the
last duct inlet.
2. At each connection to a vertical duct or riser serving two or more stories
from a return air duct or plenum of an air-conditioning system. In Group R-
1 and R-2 occupancies, a smoke detector is allowed to be used in each return
air riser carrying not more than 5,000 cfm (2.4 ms/s) and serving not more than
10 air-inlet openings.
3. Duct smoke detectors installed more than 10 feet above a finished floor,
above a ceiling, or on a rooftop shall be installed with remote test/indicators
in an approved location below and in proximity to the unit served.
[F] 912.2.1 Visible location. Fire department connections shall be located on
the street side of buildings or facing approved fire apparatus access roads,
fully visible and recognizable from the street, fire apparatus access road or
nearest point of fire department vehicle access, or as otherwise approved by
the fire code official. A weather-rated horn/strobe connected to the fire
detection or sprinkler system shall be located not lower than 8 feet above the
fire department connection and within 10 feet horizontally of the connection.
The weather-rated horn/strobe must be visible from the fire lane or street.
TABLE 1004.5
MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA ALLOWANCES PER OCCUPANT FUNCTION OF SPACE OCCUPANT LOAD
FACTOR a
Accessory storage areas, mechanical equipment room          300 gross
Agricultural building                                       300 gross
Aircraft hangars                                            500 gross
Airport terminal baggage claim baggage handling             20 gross
                                                            300 gross
Concourse waiting areas                                     100 gross
                                                            15 gross
Assembly gaming floors (keno, slots, etc.)                  11 gross
Exhibit gallery and museum                                  30 gross
Assembly with fixed seats                                   See Section 1004.6
Assembly without fixed seats, concentrated                  7 net
(chairs only—not fixed)                                   5 net
Standing space                                              15 net
Un concentrated (tables and chairs)                         -
Bowling centers, allow 5 persons for each lane including 15 7 net
feet of runway, and for additional areas
Business areas                                              150 gross
Concentrated business use areas                             See Section 1004.8
Courtrooms—other than fixed seating areas                 40 net
Day care                                                    35 net
Dormitories                                                 50 gross
Educational classroom area                                  25 net
Shops and other vocational room areas                       50 net
Exercise rooms                                              50 gross
Group H-5 fabrication and manufacturing areas               200 gross
Industrial areas                                            100 gross
Institutional areas                                         240 gross
Inpatient treatment areas                                   100 gross
Outpatient areas sleeping areas                             120 gross
Kitchens, commercial                                        200 gross
Library                                                     50 net
Reading rooms stack area                                    100 gross
Locker rooms                                                50 gross
Mall buildings—covered and open                           See Section 402.8.2
Mercantile                                                  60 gross
Storage, stock, shipping areas                              300 gross
Parking garages                                             200 gross
Residential                                                 200 gross
Skating rinks, swimming pools                               50 gross
Rink and pool decks                                         15 gross
Stages and platforms                                        15 net
Warehouses                                                  500 gross
 
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 ni2.
a. Floor area in square feet per occupant.
1007.1.1 Two exits or exit access doorways. Where two exits, exit access
doorways, exit access stairways or ramps, or any combination thereof including
the exit access, are required from any portion of the exit access, they shall
be placed a distance apart equal to not less than one-half of the length of the
maximum overall diagonal dimension of the building or area to be served
measured in a straight line between them. Interlocking or scissor stairways
shall be counted as one exit stairway.
Exceptions:
1. Where interior exit stairways or ramps are interconnected by a 1-hour fire-
resistance rated corridor conforming to the requirements of Section 1020, the
required exit separation shall be measured along the shortest direct line of
travel within the corridor.
2. Where a building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system
in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2, the separation distance
shall be not less than one-third of the length of the maximum overall diagonal
dimension of the area served.
1007.1.2 Three or more exits or exit access doorways. Where access to three or
more exits is required, not less than two exits or exit access doorways
including the exit access shall be arranged in accordance with the provisions
of Section 1007.1.1. Additional required exit or exit access doorways shall be
arranged a reasonable distance apart so that if one becomes blocked, the others
will be available.
1010.1.7 Thresholds. Thresholds at doorways shall not exceed 3/4 inch (19.1 mm)
in height above the finished floor or landing for sliding doors serving
dwelling units or 1/2 inch (12.7 mm) above the finished floor or landing for
other doors. Raised thresholds and floor level change greater than 1/4 inch
(6.4 mm) at doorways shall be beveled with a slope not greater than one unit
vertical in two units horizontal (50 percent slope).
Exceptions:
1. In occupancy Group R-2 or R-3, threshold heights for sliding and side hinged
exterior doors shall be permitted to be up to 8 inches (203 mm) in height if
all of the following apply:
1.1. The door is not part of the required means of egress.
1.2. The door is not part of an accessible route as required by Chapter 11.
1.3. The door is not part of an accessible unit, Type A unit or Type B unit.
2. In Type B units, where Exception 5 to Section 1010.1.5 permits a 4-inch (102
mm) elevation change at the door, the threshold height on the exterior side of
the door shall not exceed 4-3/4 inches (120 mm) in height above the exterior
deck, patio or balcony for sliding doors or 4-1/2 inches (114 mm) above the
exterior deck, patio or balcony for other doors.
1010.1.9.4 Locks and latches. Locks and latches shall be permitted to prevent
operation of doors where any of the following exist:
1. Places of detention or restraint.
2. In buildings in occupancy Group A having an occupant load of 300 or less,
Groups B, F, M, and S, in places of religious worship, and exterior decks
allowed to have one exit where the exit access from the deck extends back into
the building, the main door or doors are permitted to be equipped with key-
operated locking devices from the egress side provided:
2.1. The locking device is readily distinguishable as locked.
2.2. A readily visible durable sign is posted on the egress side on or adjacent
to the door stating: THIS DOOR TO REMAIN UNLOCKED WHEN THIS SPACE IS OCCUPIED.
The sign shall be in letters 1 inch (25 mm) high on a contrasting background.
2.3. The use of the key-operated locking device is revocable by the building
official for due cause.
3. Where egress doors are used in pairs, approved automatic flush bolts shall
be permitted to be used, provided that the door leaf having the automatic flush
bolts does not have a doorknob or surface-mounted hardware.
4. Doors from individual dwelling or sleeping units of Group R occupancies
having an occupant load of 10 or less are permitted to be equipped with a night
latch, dead bolt, or security chain, provided such devices are openable from
the inside without the use of a key or tool.
5. Fire doors after the minimum elevated temperature has disabled the
unlatching mechanism in accordance with listed fire door test procedures.
6. Doors serving roofs not intended to be occupied shall be permitted to be
locked preventing entry to the building from the roof.
1011.5.2 Riser height and tread depth. Stair riser heights shall be 7 inches
(178 mm) maximum and 4 inches (102 mm) minimum. The riser height shall be
measured vertically between the nosing of adjacent treads. Rectangular tread
depths shall be 11 inches (279 mm) minimum measured horizontally between the
vertical planes of the foremost projection of adjacent treads and at a right
angle to the tread’s nosing. Winder treads shall have a minimum tread depth of
11 inches (279 mm) between the vertical planes of the foremost projection of
adjacent treads at the intersections with the walk line and a minimum tread
depth of 10 inches (254 mm) within the clear width of the stair.
Exceptions:
1. Spiral stairways in accordance with Section 1011.10.
2. Stairways connecting stepped aisles to cross aisles or concourses shall be
permitted to use the riser/tread dimension in Section 1029.14.2.
3. In Group R-3 occupancies, within dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies,
and in Group U occupancies that are accessory to a Group R-3 occupancy or
accessory to individual dwelling units in Group R-2 occupancies, the maximum
riser height shall be 8 inches (203 mm), the minimum tread depth shall be 10
inches (254 mm); the minimum winder tread depth at the walk line shall be 10
inches (254 mm), and the minimum winder tread depth shall be 6 inches (152 mm).
A nosing projection not less than 3/4 inch (19.1 mm) but not more than 1-1/
4 inches (32 mm) shall be provided on stairways with solid risers where the
tread depth is less than 11 inches (279 mm).
4. See Section 503.1 of the International Existing Building Code for the
replacement of existing stairways.
5. In Group 1-3 facilities, stairways providing access to guard towers,
observation stations, and control rooms, not more than 250 square feet (23 mm)
in area, shall be permitted to have a maximum riser height of 8 inches (203 mm)
and a minimum tread depth of 9 inches (229 mm).
1015.4 Opening limitations. Required guards shall not have openings that allow
passage of a sphere 5 inches (127 mm) in diameter from the walking surface to
the required guard height.
Exceptions:
1. The triangular openings at the open sides of a stair, formed by the riser,
tread, and bottom rail shall not allow passage of a sphere 6 inches (152 mm) in
diameter.
2. At elevated walking surfaces for access to and use of electrical,
mechanical, or plumbing systems or equipment, guards shall not have openings
that allow passage of a sphere 21 inches (533 mm) in diameter.
3. In areas that are not open to the public within occupancies in Group B, I-3,
F, H, M, or S, and for alternating tread devices and ships ladders, guards
shall not have openings that allow passage of a sphere 21 inches (533 mm) in
diameter.
4. In assembly seating areas, guards required at the end of aisles in
accordance with Section 1029.17.4 shall not have openings that allow passage of
a sphere 5 inches (127 mm) in diameter up to a height of 26 inches (660 mm).
From a height of 26 inches (660 mm) to 42 inches (1,067 mm) above the adjacent
walking surfaces, guards shall not have openings that allow passage of a sphere
8 inches (203 mm) in diameter.
5. Within individual dwelling units and sleeping units in Group R-2 and R-
3 occupancies, guards on the open sides of stairs shall not have openings that
allow passage of a sphere 5 inches (127 mm) in diameter.
1020.4 Dead ends. Where more than one exit or exit access doorway is required,
the exit access shall be arranged such that dead-end corridors do not exceed 20
feet (6,096 mm) in length.
Exceptions:
1. In Group I-3, Condition 2, 3, or 4, occupancies, the dead end in a corridor
shall not exceed 50 feet (15,240 mm).
2. In occupancies in Groups B, E, F, M, R-1, R-2, S, and U, where the building
is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with
Section 903.3.1.1, the length of the dead-end corridors shall not exceed 50
feet (15,240 mm).
3. A dead-end corridor shall not be limited in length where the length of the
dead-end corridor is less than 2.5 times the least width of the dead-end
corridor.
1023.8 Discharge identification. An interior exit stairway and ramp shall not
continue below its level of exit discharge unless an approved barrier or a
directional exit sign is provided at the level of exit discharge to prevent
persons from unintentionally continuing into levels below. Directional exit
signs shall be provided as specified in Section 1013.
1030.2 Minimum size. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall have a minimum
net clear opening of 5.0 square feet (0.46m²).
1030.3 Maximum height from floor. Emergency escape and rescue openings shall
have the bottom of the clear opening not greater than 48 inches (1,219 mm)
measured from the floor.
1030.4.2 Ladders or steps. Window wells with a vertical depth of more than 48
inches (1,219 mm) shall be equipped with an approved permanently affixed ladder
or steps. Ladders or rungs shall have an inside width of at least 12 inches
(305 mm), shall project at least 3 inches (76 mm) from the wall, and shall be
spaced not more than 18 inches (457 mm) on center (o.c.) vertically for the
Hill height of the window well. The ladder or steps shall not encroach into the
required dimensions of the window well by more than 6 inches (152 mm), The
ladder or steps shall not be obstructed by the emergency escape and rescue
opening. Ladders or steps required by this section are exempt from the stairway
requirements of Section 1011.
1104.4 Multistory buildings and facilities. At least one accessible route shall
connect each accessible story, mezzanine and occupied roofs in multilevel
buildings and facilities.
Exceptions:
1. An accessible route from an accessible level is not required in facilities
that are less than three stories in height or have less than 3,000 square feet
(279 meters) per story. This exception shall not apply to:
1.1. Multiple tenant facilities of Group M occupancies containing five or more
tenant spaces used for the sales or rental of goods and where at least one such
tenant space is located on a floor level above or below the accessible levels;
1.2. Stories or mezzanines containing offices of health care providers (Group B
or I);
1.3. Passenger transportation facilities and airports (Group A-3 or B); or
1.4. Government buildings.
2. Stories, mezzanines or occupied roofs that do not contain accessible
elements or other spaces as determined by Section 1107 or 1108 are not required
to be served by an accessible route from an accessible level.
3. In air traffic control towers, an accessible route is not required to serve
the cab and the floor immediately below the cab.
4. Where a two-story building or facility has one story or mezzanine with an
occupant load of five or fewer persons that does not contain public use space,
that story ox mezzanine shall not be required to be connected by an accessible
route to the story above or below.
1106.8 Signage. Accessible parking spaces and access aisles are required to be
identified by signs. Signs shall be located at the head of accessible parking
stalls and access aisles. The bottom of the lowest signs shall be located at
least 60 inches above the pavement. As referenced below, standard and van
accessible parking space signs shall state, “RESERVED PARKING” and include the
International Symbol of Accessibility; supplemental signage must additionally
state, “STATE PERMIT OR LICENSE REQUIRED. $100 MINIMUM FINE AND CLASS 2
MISDEMEANOR FOR VIOLATORS.” A van accessible parking space must have additional
signage stating, “VAN ACCESSIBLE.” A van accessible access aisle must be
provided with signage including the International Symbol of Accessibility which
states, “WHEELCHAIR ACCESS AISLE. ABSOLUTELY NO PARKING.”
1106.9 Access aisles and markings. Each access that is part of an accessible
route shall extend the full length of the parking space it serves. The aisle
must have diagonally striped markings spaced every 4 feet (1,219 mm).
Boundaries of the access aisle must be marked. The end may be a squared or
curved shape. Two parking spaces may share an access aisle. Access aisles shall
be placed on a level surface with a slope not to exceed 1:48. Where an access
aisle is located immediately adjacent to a sidewalk that provides the closest
accessible route, the sidewalk must be provided with a curb ramp access to
serve the access aisle.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/397a4d084023c20a4dabcd3920e467453d8f1e62/
IMAGES/0-0-0-925.png]
 
1107.6.2.2.1 Type A units. In Group R-2 occupancies containing more than 20
dwelling units or sleeping units, at least 2 percent but not less than one of
the units shall be a Type A unit. All Group R-2 units on a site shall be
considered to determine the total number of units and the required number of
Type A units. Type A units shall be dispersed among the various classes of
units.
Exceptions:
1. The number of Type A units is permitted to be reduced in accordance with
Section 1107.7.
2. Existing structures on a site shall not contribute to the total number of
units on a site.
3. The following provisions of the 2009 ICC/ANSI A1 17.1-2009 referenced in
Section 1003 Type A Dwelling are applicable.
3.1 A work surface in the kitchen referenced in Section 1003.12.3 Clear Floor
Space of ICC/ANSI A1 17.1-2009 is not required.
3.2 The reduced work height of the kitchen sink at 34 inches referenced in
Section 1003.12.4.2 ICC/ANSI A1 17.1-2009 is not required.
3.3 Appliances referenced in Section 1003.12.5 Appliances ICC/ANSI A1 17.1-2009
and Laundry Equipment requires only the clear floor space referenced in Section
305 Clear Floor Space of ICC/ANSI A1 17.1-2009.
1205.3.3 Court drainage. The bottom of every court shall be properly graded and
drained to a public sewer or other approved disposal system complying with the
plumbing code.
[E] 1301.1.1 Criteria. Buildings shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the 2009 International Energy Conservation Code.
[P] 1502.1 General. Design and installation of roof drainage systems shall
comply with Section 1502 of this code, shall be sized, and discharge in
accordance with the Plumbing Code. Unless roofs are sloped to drain over roof
edges, roof drains or scuppers shall be installed at each low point of the
roof.
Roofs shall be sloped a minimum of 1 unit vertical in 48 units horizontal (2
percent slope) for drainage unless designed for water accumulation in
accordance with Section 1611.2 Pending instability. Roof drainage water from a
building shall not be allowed to flow over public property.
[P] 1502.2 Secondary (emergency overflow) drains or scuppers. Where roof drains
are required, secondary (emergency overflow) roof drains or scuppers shall be
provided where the roof perimeter construction extends above the roof in such a
manner that water will be entrapped if the primary drains allow buildup for any
reason. The installation and sizing of secondary emergency overflow drains,
leaders and conductors shall comply with the Plumbing Code.
1601.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the structural design
of buildings, structures, and portions thereof regulated by this code. It shall
not be the responsibility of the building official to determine engineering
requirements of this code. Exclusive of conventional light-frame wood
construction provisions referenced in Section 2308, the method to resist loads
as referenced in this chapter is the responsibility of a structural engineer or
other qualified design professional.
1612.3 Establishment of flood hazard areas. To establish flood hazard areas,
the applicable governing authority shall adopt the Federal Emergency Management
Agency flood hazard map and supporting data.
1703.1 Approved agency. An approved agency or the design professional of record
shall provide all information as necessary for the building official to
determine that the agency meets the applicable requirements specified in
Sections 1703.1.1 through 1703.1.3.
1704.2 Special inspections and tests. Where application is made to the building
official for construction as specified in Section 105, the owner or the owner’s
authorized agent, other than the contractor, shall employ one or more approved
agencies to provide special inspections and tests during construction on the
types of work specified in Section 1705 and identify the approved agencies to
the building official. These special inspections and tests are in addition to
the inspections by the building official that are identified in Section 110.
Exceptions:
1. Special inspections and tests are not required for construction of a minor
nature or as warranted by conditions in the jurisdiction as approved by the
building official.
2. Unless otherwise required by the building official, special inspections and
tests are not required for Group U occupancies that are accessory to a
residential occupancy including, but not limited to, those listed in Section
312.1.
3. Special inspections and tests are not required for portions of structures
designed and constructed in accordance with the cold-formed steel light-frame
construction provisions of Section 2211.1.2 or the conventional light-frame
construction provisions of Section 2308.
4. The contractor is permitted to employ the approved agencies where the
contractor is also the owner.
5. The frequency and amount of special inspections shall be as determined by
the design professional of record. The continuous and periodic inspections
referenced in Tables 1705.2.3, 1705.3, 1705.6, 1705.7, and 1705.8 are
considered as guidelines.
1705.3 Concrete construction. Special inspections and tests of concrete
construction shall be performed in accordance with this section and Table
1705.3.
Exception: Special inspections and tests shall not be required for:
1. Isolated spread concrete footings of buildings three stories or less above
grade plane that are fully supported on earth or rock.
2. Continuous concrete footings supporting walls of buildings three stories or
less above grade plane that are fully supported on earth or rock where:
2.1. The footings and foundation walls support walls of light-frame
construction.
2.2. The footings are designed in accordance with Table 1809.7.
2.3. The structural design of the footing is based on a specified compressive
strength, ƒ’c, not more than 3,000 pounds per square inch (psi) (20.6 MPa),
regardless of the compressive strength specified in the approved construction
documents or used in the footing construction.
3. Nonstructural concrete slabs supported directly on the ground, including pre
stressed slabs on grade, where the effective pre stress in the concrete is less
than 150 psi (1.0 MPa).
4. Concrete foundation walls constructed in accordance with Table 1807.1.6.2.
5. Concrete patios, driveways, and sidewalks on grade.
1804.8 Grading permits required. No person shall excavate or grade without
first obtaining permission in writing from the city engineer. If a building
permit is not obtained, a written permission must be obtained from the city
engineer for each site and may cover both excavations and fills.
Exceptions:
1. A separate grading permit is not required from the city engineer where a
site plan for a new building, structure, or addition is submitted for plan
review where an excavation below finished grade for basements, footings, and
foundations of a building, retaining wall, or other structure is authorized by
a valid building permit.
2. A fill of less than 1 foot in depth and placed on natural terrain with a
slope flatter than one unit vertical to five units horizontal (20 percent
slope), or less than 3 feet (914 mm) in depth not intended to support
structures, which does not exceed 300 cubic yards (229 m³) on any one lot and
does not obstruct a drainage course.
3. Excavation, removal, or stockpiling of rock, sand, dirt, clay, or other like
material as may be required by the state, county, or city authorities in
connection with the construction or maintenance of roads and highways. This
shall not exempt work for street construction when such work is performed by
private developers. When the private developer has obtained a permit to perform
site grading, a second permit will not be required for street grading.
4. When approved by the city engineer, grading in an isolated, self-contained
area if there is no danger to public or private property.
5. Cemetery graves.
6. Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations.
7. Excavations for wells, tunnels, or utilities.
8. Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, or stockpiling of rock, sand,
gravel, aggregate, or clay where established and provided for by law, provided
such operations do not affect the lateral support or increase the stresses in
or pressure upon any adjacent or contiguous property.
9. Exploratory excavations under the direction of soils engineers or
engineering geologists.
10. An excavation that (1) is less than 2 feet (610 mm) in depth; or (2) does
not create a cut slope of less than 5 feet (1,524 mm) in height and steeper
than 1 unit vertical in 1-1/2 units horizontal (66.7 percent slope). Exemptions
from the permit requirements of this chapter shall not be deemed to grant
authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or any other laws or ordinances of this
jurisdiction.
1804.8.1 Grading requirements. Grading shall be performed in accordance with a
grading plan approved by the city engineer. Submitted plans shall indicate
existing elevations, proposed elevations, method of erosion control, and shall
include the legal description.
1806.2 Presumptive load-bearing values. The load-bearing values used in design
for supporting soils near the surface shall not exceed the values specified in
Table 1806.2 unless data to substantiate the use of higher values are submitted
and approved. Where the building official has reason to doubt the
classification, strength, or compressibility of the soil, the requirements of
Section 1803.5.2 shall be satisfied.
Presumptive load-bearing values shall apply to materials with similar physical
characteristics and dispositions. Where a presumed soil-bearing capacity is in
excess of 3,000 psf (471 kPa/m), data to substantiate the use of the presumed
higher value must be submitted from a soils engineer for approval from the
building official. Mud, organic silt, organic clays, peat, or unprepared fill
shall not be assumed to have a presumptive load-bearing capacity unless data to
substantiate the use of such a value are submitted.
Exception: A presumptive load-bearing capacity shall be permitted to be used
where the building official deems the load-bearing capacity of mud, organic
silt, or unprepared fill is adequate for the support of lightweight or
temporary structures.
1809.5 Frost protection. Except where otherwise protected from frost,
foundations and other permanent supports of buildings and structures shall be
protected from frost by one or more of the following methods:
1. Extending below the frost line of the locality.
2. Constructing in accordance with ASCE 32.
3. Erecting on solid rock.
Exception: Free-standing buildings meeting all of the following conditions
shall not be required to be protected:
1. Assigned to Risk Category I.
2. Area of 1,500 square feet (139 m²) or less for light frame construction or
400 square feet (37 m²) or less for other than light-frame construction.
3. Eave height of 10 feet (3,048 mm) or less.
Shallow foundations shall not bear on frozen soil unless such frozen condition
is of a permanent character
[PI 2901.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter and the Plumbing Code shall
govern the design, construction, erection and installation of plumbing
components, appliances, equipment and systems used in buildings and structures
covered by this code. Toilet and bathing rooms shall be constructed in
accordance with Section 1209. Private sewage disposal systems shall conform to
the Plumbing Code. The International Fire Code, the International Property
Maintenance Code and the Plumbing Code shall govern the use and maintenance of
plumbing components, appliances, equipment and systems. The International
Existing Building Code and the Plumbing Code shall govern the alteration,
repair, relocation, replacement and addition of plumbing components,
appliances, equipment, and systems.
d. The occupant load for seasonal outdoor seating and entertainment areas shall
be included when determining the minimum number of facilities required.
e. For business and mercantile classifications with an occupant load of 15 or
fewer, a service sink shall not be required.
2902.1.4 Substitution for water closets. In a toilet room or bathroom, urinals
shall not he substituted for more than 67 percent of the required water
closets.
2902.1.5 Drinking fountains. Where water is served in restaurants or where
bottled water is served in other occupancies, drinking fountains shall not be
required. Drinking fountains shall not be installed in public restrooms.
3109.1 General. Swimming pools shall comply with the requirements of Sections
3109.2 through 3109.5 and other applicable sections of this code. These
requirements shall be applicable to all new swimming pools hereafter
constructed and shall apply to all existing pools that have a depth of 18
inches or more of water. No person in possession of land within the city,
either as an owner, purchaser, lessee, tenant, or a licensee, upon which is
situated a swimming pool having a depth of 18 inches or more, shall fail to
provide and maintain such a fence or wall as herein provided.
3109.2 Public swimming pools. Public swimming pools shall be completely
enclosed by a fence not less than 4 feet (1290 mm) in height or a screen
enclosure. Openings in the fence shall not permit the passage of a 4-inch-
diameter (102 mm) sphere. The fence or screen enclosure shall be equipped with
self-closing and self-latching gates.
3109.3 Residential swimming pools. Residential swimming pools shall be
completely enclosed by a barrier complying with Sections 3109.3.1 through
3109.3.3.
3109.3.1 Barrier height and clearances. The top of the barrier shall be not
less than 42 inches (1,066 mm) above grade measured on the side of the barrier
that faces away from the swimming pool. The vertical clearance between grade
and the bottom of the barrier shall be not greater than 2 inches (51 mm)
measured on the side of the barrier that faces away from the swimming pool.
Where the top of the pool structure is above grade, the barrier is authorized
to be at ground level or mounted on top of the pool structure, and the vertical
clearance between the top of the pool structure and the bottom of the barrier
shall be not greater than 4 inches (102 mm).
3109.3.1.1 Openings. Openings in the barrier shall not allow passage of a 4-
inch-diameter sphere.
3109.3.1.2 Solid barrier surfaces. Solid barriers which do not have openings
shall not contain indentations or protrusions except for normal construction
tolerances and tooled masonry joints.
3109.3.1.3 Gates. Access doors or gates shall comply with the requirements of
Sections 3109.3.1.1 through 3109. 3.1.2 and shall be equipped to accommodate a
locking device. Pedestrian access doors or gates shall be self-closing gates
other than pedestrian access doors or gates shall have a self-latching device.
3109.3.1.4 Pool structure as barrier. Where an above-ground pool structure is
used as a barrier or where the barrier is mounted on top of the pool structure,
and the means of access is a ladder or steps, then the ladder or steps either
shall be capable of being secured, locked or removed to prevent access, or the
ladder or steps shall be surrounded by a barrier that meets the requirements of
Sections 3109.4.1.1 through 3109.4.1.3. Where the ladder or steps are secured,
locked or removed, any opening created shall not allow the passage of a 4-inch-
diameter (102 mm) sphere.
3109.3.2 Prohibited Locations. Barriers shall be located so as to prohibit
permanent structures, equipment or similar objects from being used to climb the
barriers.
3109.3.3 Modifications. Modification in individual cases, upon a showing of
good cause with respect to height, nature, or location of a fence, wall, gates,
or latches, or the necessity thereof, may be made by the building official,
provided the protection as sought hereunder is not reduced thereby. The
building official may grant permission for other protective devices or
structures to be used as long as the degree of protection afforded by this
substitute device or structure is not less than the protection afforded by the
wall, fence, gate, or latch described herein. A reasonable period within which
to comply with the requirements of this section for existing swimming pools
shall be allowed, which period shall not exceed 90 days after notification by
the building official.
3109.4 Entrapment avoidance. Suction outlets shall be designed and installed in
accordance with ANSI/APSP-7.
Section 3114 Prefabricated construction.
3114.1 General.
3114.1.1 Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate materials and
establish methods of safe construction where any structure or portion thereof
is wholly or partially prefabricated.
3114.1.2 Scope. Unless otherwise specifically stated in this section, all
prefabricated construction and materials used therein shall conform to all the
requirements of this code.
3114.1.3 Definitions.
Prefabricated assembly is a structural unit, the integral parts of which have
been built or assembled prior to incorporation in the building. Prefabricated
structures are structures, the parts of which are fabricated and assembled in a
central assembly point, where on-site building, electrical, plumbing, and
mechanical rough-in inspections occur at the assembly location.
3114.2 Tests of materials. Every approval of a material not specifically
mentioned in this code shall incorporate as a proviso the kind and number of
nationally recognized tests to be made.
3114.3 Tests of assemblies. The building official may require special tests to
be made on assemblies to determine their durability and weather resistance.
3114.4 Connections. Every device used to connect prefabricated assemblies shall
be designed as required by this code and shall be capable of developing the
strength of the members connected, except in the case of members forming part
of a structural frame as specified in Chapter 16. Connections shall be capable
of withstanding uplift forces as specified in. This code and in Chapter 16.
3114.5 Pipes and conduits. In structural design, due allowance shall be made
for any material to be removed for the installation of pipes, conduit, and
other equipment.
3114.6 Permits, materials, plans, fees, certificate, and inspections.
3114.6.1 Materials. Materials and the assembly thereof shall be inspected to
determine compliance with this code. Every material shall be graded, marked, or
labeled as required elsewhere in this code.
3114.6.2 Plans. One complete set of plans and specifications shall be submitted
to the building inspection division of planning and building services for
approval prior to issuing a building permit for a prefabricated structure.
Plans shall be of sufficient detail and clarity to indicate compliance with all
applicable codes (electrical, plumbing, building, mechanical, and zoning).
3114.6.3 Permits and fees. Permit fees shall be as follows to be by resolution.
1. Electrical, plumbing, and mechanical permits and fees shall conform to the
respective State code and office.
3114.6.4 Certificate. A certificate of approval shall be furnished with every
prefabricated assembly and prefabricated structure, except where the assembly
is readily accessible to inspection at the site. The certificate of approval
shall certify that the assembly in question has been inspected and meets all
the requirements of this code. When mechanical equipment is installed so that
it cannot be inspected at the site, the certificate of approval shall certify
that such equipment complies with the laws applying thereto.
3114.6.5 Certifying agency. To be acceptable under this code, every certificate
of approval shall be made by the approved agency.
3114.6.6 Field erection. The building official shall inspect placement of
prefabricated assemblies at the building site to determine compliance with this
code. Installation and finishing work at the building site must be performed by
locally licensed contractors where required. Final inspections are to be made
after the installation and finishing work has been completed and the building
is ready for occupancy.
3114.6.7 Continuous inspection. If continuous inspection is required for
certain materials where construction takes place on the site, it shall also be
required where the same materials are used in prefabricated construction.
Exception: Continuous inspection will not be required during prefabrication if
the approved agency certifies to the construction and furnishes evidence of
compliance.
3114.6.8 Moving permits. A moving permit shall be obtained for each
prefabricated structure being moved within the city in accordance with Section
3404 Moved Buildings. No person except a building mover licensed shall move a
prefabricated structure or part thereof across, along, or over public property.
3303.1 Construction documents. No person shall demolish or wreck a building or
structure without first obtaining a razing permit. Permit fees shall be paid in
accordance with it. Construction documents and a schedule for demolition shall
be submitted where required by the building official. Where such information is
required, work shall not be done until such construction documents or schedule,
or both, are approved. The applicant shall secure insurance covering any
possible liability that could incur during demolition.
3303.6 Utility connections. Service utility connections shall be discontinued
and capped in accordance with the approved rules and the requirements of the
applicable governing authority. Before a razing permit can be issued, the
applicant must furnish approval from the city engineering division that
applicable permits have been secured to ensure that all utilities will be
properly disconnected and inspected as per city engineer’s specifications. The
applicant shall be responsible for notifying other utilities of such
anticipated demolition.
(Ord. 642, passed - -)
§ 150.17 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The International Residential Code, 2018 edition, including Appendix
E, Appendix G, Appendix H, and Appendix Q (tiny housing) as published by the
International Code Council Incorporated, as amended, is hereby adopted as the
residential building code by the city for regulating the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, movement, repair,
equipment, use and occupancy, location, removal, and demolition of detached one
and two-family dwellings and town houses not more than three stories in height
with a separate means of egress and their accessory structures, and provides
for the issuance of permits and the collection of fees therefor.
   (B)   The adoption of the International Residential Code, 2018 edition, will
become effective September 1,2019. The minimum building standards in the 2018
edition of the International Residential Code and amendments thereto shall be
applied to any building permit issued after September 1,2019.
   (C)   The following sections and subsections of the 2018 International
Residential Code adopted in this subchapter shall be amended, added, or not
adopted by the city as follows. All other sections or subsections of the 2018
International Residential Code as published shall remain the same.
R101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the residential code for one-
and two-family dwellings of the city of Garretson and shall be cited as such
and will be referred to herein as “this code.”
R101.2 Scope. The provisions of this code shah apply to the construction,
alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and
occupancy, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family
dwellings and townhouses not more than three stories above grade plane in
height with a separate means of egress and their accessory structures not more
than three stories above grade plane in height.
Exception 1: The fallowing shall be permitted to be constructed in accordance
with this code where provided with a residential fire sprinkler system
complying with Section P2904:
1. A care facility with five or fewer persons receiving custodial care within a
dwelling unit.
2. A care facility with five or fewer persons receiving medical care within a
dwelling unit.
3. A care facility for five or fewer persons receiving care that are within a
single-family dwelling.
Exception 2: The following shall be permitted to be constructed in accordance
with this code. A fire sprinkler system if installed may be in accordance with
Section P2904.
1. Live/work units located in townhouses and complying with the requirements of
Section 419 of the International Building Code.
2. Owner-occupied lodging houses with five or fewer guestrooms.
Exception 3: Existing buildings undergoing repair, alteration or additions and
change of occupancies may be permitted to comply with the International
Existing Building Code.
R103.1 Enforcement agency. Building services is hereby created and the official
in charge thereof shall be known as the building official.
R103.2 Appointment. The Building Official shall be appointed by the chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction.
R104.8 Liability. The building official, member of the board of appeals or
employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the
jurisdiction in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties
required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be
rendered civilly or criminally liable personally and is hereby relieved from
personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result
of any act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official
duties.
This code shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility
of any person owning, operating, or controlling any building or structure for
any damages to persons or property caused by defects, nor shall the code
enforcement agency or the city be held as assuming any such liability by reason
of the inspection authorized by this code or any permits or certificates issued
under this code.
R104.8.1 Legal defense. Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against an
officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in
the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this code shall be
afforded all the protection provided by the city’s insurance pool and any
immunities and defenses provided by other applicable state and federal law and
defended by legal representatives of the jurisdiction until the final
termination of the proceedings. The building official or any subordinate shall
not be liable for cost in any action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in
pursuance of the provisions of this code.
R105.1 Required. Any owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a
building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert, or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system, the
installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to
be performed, shall first make application to the building official and obtain
the required permit. The building official may exempt permits for minor work.
Exclusive of a homeowner, no person or firm shall be issued a building permit
for residential building defined as owner-occupied one- and two-family
dwellings, including accessory garages, until that person or firm has been
issued a residential contractor’s license required by this chapter.
R105.2 Work exempt from permit. Exemption from permit requirements of this code
shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any
manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or
ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the
following:
Building:
1. One-story detached accessory structures, provided that the floor area does
not exceed 200 square feet (18.58 m²). A placement permit is required by the
zoning division.
2. Fences not over 7 feet (2,134 mm) high. A fence permit is required by the
zoning division. And will issued by building department.
3. Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1,219 mm) in height measured from
the bottom of the grade elevation to the top of the wall, unless supporting a
surcharge.
4. Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not exceed
5,000 gallons (18,927 l) and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not
exceed 2 to 1.
5. Sidewalks and driveways. A driveway permit is required by the zoning
division. A sidewalk permit is required by the building division.
6. Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, countertops, and similar
finish work.
7. Prefabricated swimming pools that are less than 18 inches (457 mm) deep.
8. Swings and other playground equipment.
9. Window awnings supported by an exterior wall that do not project more than
54 inches (1,372 mm) from the exterior wall and do not require additional
support.
Electrical:
1. Listed cord-and-plug connected temporary decorative lighting.
2. Reinstallation of attachment plug receptacles but not the outlets therefor.
3. Replacement of branch circuit overcurrent devices of the required capacity
in the same location.
4. Electrical wiring, devices, appliances, apparatus, or equipment operating at
less than 25 volts and not capable of supplying more than 50 watts of energy.
5. Minor repair work, including the replacement of lamps or the connection of
approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently installed
receptacles.
Gas:
1. Portable heating, cooking, or clothes drying appliances.
2. Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment or
make such equipment unsafe.
3. Portable-fuel-cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed piping
system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
Mechanical:
1. Portable heating appliances.
2. Portable ventilation appliances.
3. Portable cooling units.
4. Steam, hot- or chilled-water piping within any heating or cooling equipment
regulated by this code.
5. Replacement of any minor part that does not alter approval of equipment or
make such equipment unsafe.
6. Portable evaporative coolers.
7. Self-contained refrigeration systems containing 10 pounds (4.54 kg) or less
of refrigerant or that are actuated by motors of 1 horsepower (746 W) or less.
8. Portable-fuel-cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed piping
system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
Plumbing:
1. The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe; provided,
however, that if any concealed trap, drainpipe, water, soil, waste or vent pipe
becomes defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the same with
new material, such work shall be considered as new work and a permit shall be
obtained and inspection made as provided in this code.
2. The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes, valves, or
fixtures, and the removal and reinstallation of water closets, provided such
repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of valves,
pipes, or fixtures.
R106.1 Submittal documents. Submittal documents consisting of construction
documents and other data shall be submitted with each application for a permit.
The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design
professional where required by the statutes of the jurisdiction in which the
project is to be constructed. Where special conditions exist, the building
official is authorized to require additional construction documents to be
prepared by a registered design professional.
Exception: The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work
applied for is such that reviewing of construction documents is not necessary
to obtain compliance with this code.
R106.1.5 Energy efficiency. Construction documents for detached one- and two-
family dwellings and townhomes shall be provided with the intended R-value for
the ceilings, walls, floors, basement walls (if finished), slab perimeter R-
value and depth, and crawl space walls.
R106.1.6 Foundation reinforcement. Construction for detached one- and two-
family dwellings and town houses shall be provided with the intended
reinforcement of foundation walls referenced in Tables R404.1.1(2), R404.1.1
(3), andR404.1.1(4) for reinforced masonry foundation walls; Tables R404.1.2
(2), R404.1.2(3), R404.1.2(4), and R404.1.1(8) for flat concrete foundation
walls; Tables 404.1.2(5) and R404.1.2(6) for waffle-grid basement walls; and
Table R404.1.2(7) for screed-grid basement walls where the foundation wall
exceeds the provisions for plain masonry and concrete foundation walls.
R106.2 Site plan or plot plan. The construction documents submitted with the
application for permit shall be accompanied by a site plan showing the size and
location of new construction and existing structures on the site and distances
from lot lines. Site plans for new dwellings are required to specify the
minimum ground elevation (MGE) which designates the elevation of the top of the
black dirt under the grass, or the top of the landscape rock or other landscape
material at the lowest exposed part of the house. In the case of demolition,
the site plan shall show construction to be demolished and the location and
size of existing structures and construction that are to remain on the site or
plot. The building official is authorized to waive or modify the requirement
for a site plan where the application for permit is for alteration or repair or
where otherwise warranted.
R106.3.1 Approval of construction documents. Where the building official issues
a permit, the construction documents shall be submitted and reviewed. One set
of construction documents so reviewed shall be retained by the building
official.
R108.2 Schedule of permit fees. On buildings, structures, electrical, gas,
mechanical, and plumbing systems or alterations requiring a permit, a fee for
each permit shall be paid as required in accordance with the schedule as
established by the city.
The fee for each residential building permit shall be set forth in Resolution
2019-02.
1. Inspection outside of normal business hours, per hour* (minimum charge—one
hour) $70
2. Reinspection fees, per hour $70
3. Inspections for which no fee is specifically indicated, per hour* (minimum
charge—one-half hour) $70
4. Additional plan review required by changes, additions, or revisions to
approved plans, per hour* (minimum charge—one-half hour) $70
* Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is the greatest. This
cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages, and fringe
benefits of the employees involved.
5. Wrecking permit fees $40
6. Swimming pool fence enclosures $40
7. Residential reshingles $30
8. Residential resides $30
9. Residential window replacements with no structural modifications (Group R
and U occupancies) by valuation.
10. Board of appeals fees: Before any action is taken by the board, the party
or parties requesting such hearing shall deposit with the secretary of the
board, or his or her authorized agent, the sum of $65 to cover the approximate
cost of the procedure. Under no condition shall the sum or any part thereof be
refunded for failure of the request to be approved.
11. A mileage fee at the current rate per mile as established by the finance
department shall be charged for any inspection occurring outside city limits.
12. Residential contractor’s license fee $50 for one year and $100 for three
years.
13. Bond claims. An administrative fee shall be charged to cover the
administrative cost of filing a claim $150.
14. Fee for late corrections. A $100.00 administrative fee may be charged for
failure to correct violations within the time specified on a contractor’s
correction report.
15. Fee for failure to request a required inspection. Where building
construction work is completed without a request for an inspection, an
administrative fee of $250.00 may be charged.
R108.6 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who commences work
requiring a permit on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical, or
plumbing system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to a
fee established by the applicable governing authority that shall be in addition
to the required permit fees. Administrative citations and legal and/or civil
proceedings may also be commenced.
R108.7 Delinquent accounts. The administrative authority may refuse to issue
permits or conduct inspections for any person or business whose account is
delinquent.
R109.1.1 Footing inspection. Inspection of the footing shall be made after
poles or piers are set or trenches or basement areas are excavated and any
required forms erected and required reinforcing steel is in place and supported
prior to the placing of flood concrete (minimum of two number 2'). The footing
inspection shall include excavations for thickened slabs intended for the
support of bearing walls, partitions, structural supports, or equipment and
special requirements for wood foundations.
R109.1.3 Floodplain inspections. For construction in flood hazard areas as
established by FEMA map upon placement of tire lowest floor, including
basement, and prior to further vertical construction, the floodplain
administrator shall require submission of documentation, prepared and sealed by
a r
Rl09.1.6.1 Elevation documentation. If located in a flood hazard area, the
documentation of elevations required in Section R322.1.10 shall be submitted to
the floodplain administrator prior to the final inspection.
R110.1 Use and occupancy. A building or structure shall not be used or
occupied, and a change of occupancy or change of use of a building or structure
or portion thereof shall not be made, until the building official has issued a
certificate of occupancy therefor as provided herein and final inspections have
been obtained from the electrical, mechanical, plumbing, and building
inspection divisions of building services. An inspection placard shall be
posted on the electrical panel, which is signed after final inspections have
occurred by the electrical inspector, mechanical inspector, and plumbing
inspector for new one- and two-family dwelling units and multiple single-family
dwellings (town houses). Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be
construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of
other ordinances of the city. Certificates presuming to give authority to
violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the city
shall not be valid.
Exceptions:
1. Certificates of occupancy are not required for work exempt from permits
under Section R105.2.
2. Accessory buildings or structures.
R110.6 Placards. Placards or inspection record tags placed on the job by the
inspectors to indicate approval of the work inspected shall not be removed,
except when authorized by the building official.
R112.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or
determinations made by the building official relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, to review all proposed changes to the respective
codes and to submit recommendations to the responsible official and the city
council, to review requests for house moves, to examine applicants for
licensing, and to investigate matters brought before the board, there shall he
and is hereby created a building board of appeals and examiners. The building
official shall be an ex officio member of said board but shall not have a vote
on any matter before the board. Members shall be appointed by the mayor with
the consent of the council and shall hold office for a term of three years. The
board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business, and shall
render decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy
to the building official and/or the fire marshal. The board, in exercising its
authority over house moving, may deny the building request or may require
additional stipulations to be placed on the building permit to address the
protection of the property values and neighborhood compatibility.
R112.2 Limitations on authority. An application for appeal shall be based on a
claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder
have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully
apply, or an equally good or better form of construction is proposed. The board
shall not have authority relative to the interpretation of the administrative
provisions of this code nor shall the board be empowered to waive requirements
of this code.
R113.3 Prosecution of violation. If the notice of violation is not complied
with in the time prescribed by such notice, the building official is authorized
to request the legal counsel of the jurisdiction to deem the violation as a
strict liability offense and institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to restrain, correct, or abate such violation, or to require the removal
or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the building or structure in
violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made
pursuant thereto.
Section R202. Definitions. Add the following definition.
STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited or
failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
   Table
Part VIII—Electrical. The following chapters are not adopted by the city:
Chapter 34—General Requirements; Chapter 35—Electrical Definitions; Chapter
36—Services; Chapter 37—Branch Circuit and Feeder Requirements; Chapter
38—Wiring Methods; Chapter 39—Power and Lighting Distribution; Chapter
40—Device and Luminaries; Chapter 41—Appliance Installation; Chapter
42—Swimming Pools; Chapter 43—Class 2 Remote-Control, Signaling and Power-
Limited Circuits
The most current code adopted National Electrical Code by the South Dakota
State Electrical Commission shall apply to the installation, alteration,
repair, relocation, replacement, addition to, use, or maintenance of any
electrical system, apparatus, wiring, or equipment for electrical, light, heat,
power, fire alarms, and associate controls for detached one- and two-family
dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (town houses) not more than
three stories high with separate means of egress and their accessory
structures.
(Ord. 644, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 150.18 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   A certain document is on file in the office of the Finance Office
being marked and designated as the International Property Maintenance Code,
2018 edition, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Property Maintenance Code for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities, facilities, and other physical
things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary,
and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such
existing structures as herein provided; provided for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code
are hereby referred to, adopted, and made party hereof, as if fully set out in
this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any,
prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1 (City of Garretson);
      (2)   Section 103.5 (The fees for activities and services performed by
City Officials in carrying out the responsibility set forth under this code are
determined as set forth in 12 inches);
      (3)   Section 112.4 (fine of not less than $300 or more than $500);
      (4)   Section 302.4 (six inches);
      (5)   Section 304.14 (May 1 to October 1);
      (6)   Section 602.3 (September 1 to June 1); and
      (7)   Section 602.4 (September 1 to June 1).
(Ord. 643, passed 8-5-2019)
FIRE LIMITS
§ 150.30 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to erect, alter, or repair any building used for
business purposes within the fire limits shall apply to the City Council for a
permit for such purpose, and furnish a plan and written statement showing the
location, dimensions, and manner of construction of the proposed building or
structure; and if satisfied that such building alteration or repair is in
compliance with the ordinance of the city, the City Council shall order the
City Auditor to issue a permit for such proposed building alteration or repair.
(Ord. 59, passed 8-20-1901)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any individual starting work without a building permit, as
described in §
150.01, will be granted three working days to obtain a building permit. If no
building permit is obtained at that time, the following fines will be imposed:
 
Building Permit Valuation Fine Amount
$0 - $20,000              $150
$20,001 - $30,000         $200
$30,001 - $50,000         $250
 
      (2)   Fines will increase $50 for every $10,000 valuation thereafter.
(Res. 2019-02, passed 1-7-2019)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Jurisdiction
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Submission procedure and review of preliminary plats
   
151.05   Submission procedure and review of final plats
   
151.06   Vacation of plats
   
151.07   Improvements required for final plat approval
   
151.08   Variances and amendments
   
151.09   Enforcement
Design Standards and Requirements
   
151.20   Generally
   
151.21   Land suitability
   
151.22   Streets
   
151.23   Blocks
   
151.24   Lots
   
151.25   Easements
   
151.26   Public open spaces
   
151.27   Zoning regulations
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to promote the orderly development of
the city, and to protect and provide for the public health, safety, morals, and
general welfare.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.02 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall be applicable within the area established in the
comprehensive plan or major street plan, including such territory inside and
outside the city, as provided for in SDCL § 11-6-26.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Public or private ways which are used primarily for vehicular service
access to the backs or to the sides of properties which otherwise abut on the
street.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Designed or utilized primarily for high vehicular speeds or
for heavy volumes of traffic.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets,
public parks, railroad rights-of-way, shoreline of waterways, or municipal
boundaries.
   CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A community water system, including treatment and
distribution established by the developer to serve a subdivision in the
outlying area.
   CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM. A community sewer system, including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a development in the
outlying area.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A road intended to move traffic from local streets to
arterial.
   CITY. Municipality of Garretson, South Dakota.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council as duly elected.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The master plan or general plan for the development and
improvement of the city, as adopted by the City Council. (Note: As an interim
measure, SDCL § 11-6-26 provides for the use of a major street plan in lieu of
a COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, until a COMPREHENSIVE PLAN is adopted.)
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with one end open to traffic and the other end
terminated by a turn-around.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, for
specific purposes, for any designated part of his or her property.
   FINAL PLAT. The map or plan or record of a subdivision and any accompanying
material as described in this chapter.
   FRONTAGE. The side of a lot abutting on a street regarded as the front of
the lot.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A minor street which runs parallel or adjacent to arterial
streets and highways and which serves to reduce the number of access points.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Street grading, street surfacing, curb and gutter, water mains
and lines, sanitary sewers, natural gas mains and lines, storm drainage
facilities, culverts, or other such installations as designated by the City
Council. All IMPROVEMENTS shall be properly bonded.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of ownership
or development.
   LOCAL STREET. A minor street which is designed and used primarily for access
to abutting properties.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. Any form of security or assurance, including cash deposit,
surety bond, collateral, property, or instrument of credit, in an amount and
form satisfactory to the City Council.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary drawing or drawings indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to he submitted to the Planning Commission
for approval.
   REGISTER OF DEEDS. County agent responsible for maintaining records
according to state law including, but not limited to: receiving and recording
deeds; quit claim deeds; contract for deeds; addendums; extensions; powers of
attorney; plats; easements; terminations of life estates or joint tenancy;
corner records; and underground lines.
   SUBDIVIDES. A person, corporation, partnership, association, or any group
who prepares or causes to be prepared a subdivision plat.
   SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or parcels) which has been divided into two or more
separate units for the purpose of subsequent sale or building development.
SUBDIVISION includes the division or development of residential and
nonresidential zoned land, whether by deed, metes and bounds, lease, map, plat,
or other recorded instrument.
   UTILITIES. Electric transformers, switch boxes, telephone pedestals and
telephone boxes, cable television boxes, traffic control boxes, including the
generation, transmission, and/or distribution of electricity, gas, steam
communications, and water, and the collection and treatment of sewage and solid
waste.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.04 SUBMISSION PROCEDURE AND REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   General. The procedure for review and approval of a subdivision plat
shall consist of these steps: informal discussion with the Planning Commission;
preparation and submission of a preliminary plat; preparation and submission of
a final plat of the subdivision; and performance bond(s) as required.
   (B)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   After meeting with the Planning Commission, the subdivider shall
prepare a preliminary plat prior to the sale of any land within the area to be
subdivided, before making any street improvements or the installation of any
utilities. The preliminary plat shall meet the standards of design as set forth
in §§
151.20 through
151.27, and shall show the following information:
         (a)   A scale minimum of 100 feet to one inch;
         (b)   Name of subdivision, names and addresses of the owners,
engineers, or surveyors;
         (c)   A vicinity sketch;
         (d)   Date and north points;
         (e)   Acreage of land to be subdivided;
         (f)   Contour intervals of not more than five feet;
         (g)   Boundary lines of area to be subdivided;
         (h)   Existing and proposed easements, and their location and
dimensions;
         (i)   Streets on and adjacent to the subdivision, with their
appropriate dimensions;
         (j)   Utilities on and adjacent to the subdivision showing existing
and proposed connections;
         (k)   Lot lines, lot and block numbers;
         (l)   Sites for public, semi-public, commercial, or multi- family
uses, and their acreage;
         (m)   Minimum building setback lines; and
         (n)   Copies of any deed restrictions shall be attached.
      (2)   To be reviewed at a Planning Commission meeting, a preliminary plat
must be submitted no less than 15 days prior to the meeting at which it is to
be considered. Following review of the preliminary plat and supplementary
material, the Planning Commission shall, within 45 days, act thereon. If the
plat is approved, the Planning Commission shall express its approval and, if
any, state the conditions of such approval; if the plat is disapproved, the
Planning Commission shall return the plat with the reasons, in writing, for
disapproval attached.
      (3)   Approval of the preliminary plat shall not be deemed approval of
the final subdivision plat; rather, it shall constitute a guide for the
preparation of the final plat.
      (4)   Approval of the preliminary plat is revocable at any time and shall
become void after 48 months from the date of approval if no progress has been
made in the development of the final plat.
   (C)   Plat review fee. A fee shall be levied for the examination and
approval or disapproval of every plat reviewed by the Council. At the time
preliminary plats are filed with the Auditor, the subdivider shall pay to the
Auditor the amount of $10 for each plat and $1 for each lot shown on each plat.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.05 SUBMISSION PROCEDURE AND REVIEW OF FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Final plat.
      (1)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat
as approved, and it may constitute only a portion of the preliminary plat which
the subdivider proposed to record and develop. The final plat shall give the
following information:
         (a)   The scale shall be 100 feet to one inch, or larger;
         (b)   Date, title, legal description, scale, and north point;
         (c)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines for streets, easements
and other rights-of-way, property lines, with accurate dimensions within one
one-hundredth of a foot; bearings of deflection angles, radii, arcs, and
central angles of all curves with dimensions to the nearest minute;
         (d)   Lot and block numbers, lot lines, and frontage dimensions;
         (e)   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions and streets
adjoining unplatted property;
         (f)   Certification on the plat of title showing that the applicant is
the owner, that the making of the plat receives his or her consent and is in
accordance with his or her desires, and a statement by such owner dedicating
streets, rights-of-way, and other sites for public use;
         (g)   Certification by a land surveyor registered in the state as to
the accuracy of survey and plat;
         (h)   Certification by the Zoning Administrator; and
         (i)   Protective covenants or deed restrictions shall be filed with
the county’s Register of Deeds.
      (2)   The original, two copies of the final plat, and required
supplementary material, including plans and specifications for all required
improvements, shall be submitted to the Planning Commission at least 15 days
prior to the Planning Commission meeting at which it is scheduled to be
considered.
      (3)   The subdivider shall post a certified performance bond with the
Finance Officer, in sufficient amount to assure completion of all the required
improvements, 15 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting at which the
final plat is scheduled to be considered.
      (4)   Following review of the final plat and supplemental material, the
Planning Commission shall forward its recommendations to the City Council, who
shall approve or disapprove said final plat within 60 days following submittal.
      (5)   When reviewed by City Council, the final plat shall be certified by
the county Director of Equalization and shall be endorsed with, or have
attached, the certificate of the County Treasurer that all taxes which are
liens upon any land included in such plat, as shown by the records of his or
her office, have been fully paid.
      (6)   No final plat shall be acted upon by the City Council without
affording a hearing thereon; notice of the time and place of, which shall be
sent by mail to said subdivider not less than five days before the date fixed
therefore. In addition, no final plat shall be acted upon by the City Council
until plans and specifications for all required improvements have been
submitted to and reviewed by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
and City Council may consult with an engineer to determine if the plans and
specifications are adequate to protect public health and safety, and if they
meet the standards established in §§
151.20 through
151.27, and in §
151.07, and other generally accepted standards for the construction of
infrastructure and public works.
      (7)   Following the public hearing, the City Council shall approve or
disapprove the final plat 60 days after receipt thereof. If the final decision
is disapproval, the reasons therefor shall be stated in writing with a
duplicate copy, forwarded to the subdivider.
      (8)   When the final plat has been approved by the City Council, one copy
shall be returned to the subdivider with the certified approval of the City
Council thereon for filing with the County Register of Deeds as an official
plat of record. Another certified copy shall be transmitted to the County
Auditor. No work shall be done on the subdivision and no lots sold before the
final plat is accepted and recorded.
      (9)   The subdivider shall attach to the final plat a map of the proposed
subdivision showing the location, specifications and extent of those required
services, for which the subdivider is responsible, as specified in §§
151.20 through
151.27, and in §
151.07.
   (B)   Inspection. The City Council shall provide for the inspection of the
required improvements, as described in §
151.07, during construction, in order to insure their satisfactory completion
before public dedication.
   (C)   Completion and approval of the improvements. Approval of the final
plat by the Planning Commission shall be indicated with the signature of the
Mayor on the final plat. Such signature shall be conditional upon the developer
completing, in accordance with the Planning Commission and City Council
directives and standards, all street, sanitary, water and other improvements as
required by these regulations and as specified in the final plat. The signature
of the Mayor is also conditional upon the developer furnishing a title
insurance policy, approved by the City Attorney, which indicates a guarantee of
completion of all the required improvements and that the improvements are free
and clear of all and any liens or other encumbrances.
   (D)   Approval of final plat. Upon approval and recommendation of the
Planning Commission, the City Council shall accept the improvements for
dedication and the final plat of the subdivision.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.06 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   Vacation of a plat of record. Any such plat may be vacated by the
proprietors at any time before the sale of any lots by a written instrument
declaring the same to be vacated, duly executed, acknowledged, and recorded in
the same office with the plat to be vacated.
   (B)   Vacation of part. Any part of a plat may be vacated under the
provisions and subject to the conditions of §§
151.04 through
151.06(A) above; provided such vacating does not abridge or destroy any of the
rights and privileges of other proprietors in said plat. Nothing contained in
this section shall authorize the closing or obstructing of any public roadways
laid out according to law.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.07 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Monuments. The subdivider shall place permanent monuments in the
subdivision as provided herein. Iron monuments five-eighths inch in diameter
and no less than 18 inches long shall be placed on street right-of-way lines,
street intersections, block corners, and all lot corners.
   (B)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter shall be installed by the subdivider
on all roadways in the plat being dedicated to public use and shall be
installed within one year of City Council approval of the final plat filed by
the subdivider. Curb and gutter shall be constructed of portland cement
concrete.
   (C)   Streets.   
      (1)   All streets, roads, and alleys shall be graded and surfaced to
their full widths by the subdivider. Pavement widths shall be measured between
the edges of the gutters, thereby excluding curb and gutter widths from the
measurement of pavement width.
      (2)   Minimum pavement widths to be provided are:
 
Street Types         Minimum Widths
Alleys               20 feet
Arterial (each lane) 12 feet
Collector            44 feet
Frontage road        26 feet
Local                32 feet
 
      (3)   All roadways to be dedicated for public use and shall be surfaced
from curb to curb. Surfacing between the gutters shall, at a minimum, be
either:
         (a)   Asphalt, four inches thick, with a six-inch aggregate base
course; or
         (b)   Portland cement concrete (non-reinforced), seven inches thick,
with a four inch gravel cushion.
      (4)   All surfaced roadways shall be installed within one year after curb
and gutter has been installed within the subdivision.
      (5)   In cases where streets are anticipated to have higher than normal
traffic volumes or an unusually high proportion of traffic from heavier
vehicles, the Planning Commission may recommend, and the City Council may
require, higher road surfacing standards for such streets.
   (D)   Sidewalks. Within all newly platted subdivisions, permanent portland
cement concrete sidewalks along each side of every street shown on the plat,
dedicated to public use, shall be a minimum of four feet in width. Sidewalks
shall be four inches in thickness, with a sidewalk thickness of six inches
required where sidewalks intersect driveway access to a street.
   (E)   Drainage and storm sewer. The subdivider shall make adequate
provisions for storm drainage runoff through channels or a storm sewer system.
Any such improvements shall be constructed separate from the sanitary sewer
system.
   (F)   Water facilities. The subdivider shall install all water distribution
facilities as specified by uniform building code, including fire hydrants and
shut-off valves at each block.
   (G)   Sewerage facilities. The subdivider shall install public sewerage
facilities and manholes subject to review by the Planning Commission and
approved by the City Council. Sewers shall be installed to each lot, with
grades and sizes. No individual disposal or treatment systems shall be
permitted.
   (H)   Natural gas mains. The subdivider shall install natural gas mains,
subject to review by the Planning Commission and approval by the City Council.
   (I)   Public utilities. The subdivider shall provide lot easements for
public utilities wherever possible. When it is necessary to install utilities
in the street, the following standards shall apply: After grading is complete
and approved, and before a pavement base is laid, all in-street work (water and
sewer mains, storm sewer, gas mains, and the like) and all service connections
shall be completely installed and approved, so as not to require disturbing the
pavement surface after paving is completed.
   (J)   Street signs. The subdivider shall install street signs, indicating
the name and block number, at each intersection.
   (K)   Street lighting. The subdivider shall install street lighting in
accordance with existing city standards. Any additional costs, due to lighting
fixtures requested by the subdivider above and beyond city standards, shall be
borne by the subdivider.
   (L)   Construction standards. The subdivider shall consult with the area
soil conservationist in the planning and construction phase of the development
to ensure compliance with SDCL § 38-8A-22.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 537, passed 4-12-2000) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 VARIANCES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Exceptional conditions. The Planning Commission may recommend, and the
City Council may grant, a variance to these regulations if all of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   The proposed use is reasonable;
      (2)   It would be unreasonable to require conformance to § 150.07;
      (3)   The difficulty of conforming to § 150.07 is due to circumstances
unique to the property;
      (4)   The problem must be one not created by the landowner; and
      (5)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality.
   (B)   Amendments. Any provisions of these regulations may, from time to
time, be amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the City
Council according to law; however, such amendments, supplements, changes, and
modifications shall not become effective until after study and recommendation
by the Planning Commission and final approval by the City Council, as follows:
      (1)   Proposed change in subdivision regulations drafted and sent to City
Attorney for review;
      (2)   Letter received from City Attorney confirming legality of proposed
changes;
      (3)   Planning Commission makes recommendation to City Council;
      (4)   Notice of joint City Council/Planning Commission public hearing
published, followed by a 15-day waiting period;
      (5)   Public hearing held by City Council and Planning Commission;
      (6)   First reading of ordinance changing the regulations held;
      (7)   Second reading of ordinance changing the regulations held;
      (8)   Notice of adoption published, followed by a 20-day waiting period;
and
      (9)   Revised subdivision regulations become effective.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   No plat or plan of a subdivision of land located within the jurisdiction of
this chapter shall be recorded or filed with the county’s Register of Deeds,
nor shall any plat or subdivision have any validity until it complies with the
provisions of this chapter and has received final approval, in writing, from
the City Council.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.20 GENERALLY.
   The City Council shall impose the following general requirements and compel
all subdividers to comply with the following design principles in the layout of
subdivisions.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.21 LAND SUITABILITY.
   (A)   If the Planning Commission or City Council finds that the land to be
subdivided is unsuitable for development due to high agricultural productivity,
flooding, bad drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, or other conditions, and
if from adequate investigations it has been determined that in the best
interest of the public the land should not be divided, the Planning Commission
or the City Council shall not approve the subdivision, unless adequate methods
are found by the subdivider for meeting the problems created by the proposed
subdivision.
   (B)   The Planning Commission or City Council may refuse to approve what it
considers scattered, or premature, subdivision of land by reason of lack of
adequate water supply and sewerage treatment, schools, proper drainage, good
roads, or other public services which would necessitate an excessive
expenditure of public funds for the supply of such services.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.22 STREETS.
   (A)   The street layout of the proposed subdivision shall provide for the
continuation or projection of streets and alleys already existing in areas
adjacent to the area being subdivided. In addition, streets and alleys of the
proposed subdivision shall correspond in name, direction, and width to existing
streets and alleys.
   (B)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the Planning Commission may require frontage roads, reverse frontage
lots with screen planting along the rear property line, or other such treatment
as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties.
   (C)   Street rights-of-way shall not be less than the following:
      (1)   Arterial streets: 100 feet;
      (2)   Collector streets: 80 feet;
      (3)   Local streets: 66 feet;
      (4)   Cul-de-sacs: 120 feet in diameter; and
      (5)   Alleys: 20 feet.
   (D)   Subdivisions platted along existing streets shall dedicate additional
right-of-ways if necessary to meet the minimum street width requirements set
forth in this section.
   (E)   Cul-de-sacs shall not be longer than 500 feet.
   (F)   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than 125 feet shall not
be made.
   (G)   The Planning Commission shall not approve streets which will be
subject to inundation or flooding, unless such a street is essential or unusual
circumstances exist. Where flood conditions appear to exist, the Planning
Commission shall require profiles and elevations of streets in order to
determine the advisability of approving the proposed subdivision.
   (H)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with
names of existing streets, irrespective of the suffix, avenue, boulevard,
drive, place, court, or similar suffix.
   (I)   Dead end streets as permanent features shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.23 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block lengths shall not exceed 1,200 feet or be less than 300 feet,
except in cases in which the Planning Commission determines that deviation from
this requirement is necessary for the proposed subdivision and appropriate for
the surrounding area.
   (B)   All blocks shall be a minimum of 200 feet wide and shall have two
tiers of lots. However, where unusual roadway or topographical conditions
exist, the Planning Commission may approve a single tier of lots.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.24 LOTS.
   (A)   The minimum depth of lots shall be 100 feet. The size, shape, and
configuration shall be as the Planning Commission deems appropriate.
   (B)   All lots shall front on a public street for a minimum distance of 66
feet, except for lots which front on cul-de-sacs, which shall have a minimum
frontage of 25 feet.
   (C)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be prohibited, except
where necessary to provide a separation from through traffic or to overcome
specific problems related to topography.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.25 EASEMENTS.
   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided for utilities where necessary. Such easements shall be no less than 20
feet wide. When the Planning Commission deems it necessary for proper drainage
within or through a subdivision, it shall require that a storm water easement
or drainage right-of-way be provided.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.26 PUBLIC OPEN SPACES.
   Where increased demands on schools, parks, or recreation areas will occur as
a result of the applicant’s proposed subdivision, the City Council, upon
Planning Commission recommendation, may require the dedication or reservation
of such open space within the proposed subdivision for schools, parks,
recreation, or other public purposes. The City Council, upon Planning
Commission recommendation, will require for public use dedication of 5% of the
subdivision for schools, parks, recreation, or other public purposes. The City
Council may accept a cash payment in lieu of the public use dedication, with
such payment to be placed in a capital improvements fund for parks and
recreation. Dedication of lands for public open spaces do not include street
rights-of-way, drainage easements, utility easements, and yard requirements.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.27 ZONING REGULATIONS.
   No final plat of land within the area of force and effect of an existing
zoning ordinance will be approved unless it conforms with the zoning
regulations.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   The owner, or agent of the owner, of any land shall forfeit and pay to the
city the sum of $200 for each lot or part of lot sold, otherwise disposed of,
leased, or offered for sale or lease before the final plat thereof has been
approved by the City Council, as provided in this chapter. The city may enjoin
such transfer, lease, sale, or agreement by action for injunction brought in
any court of record.
(Ord. 529, passed 2-8-1999)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
152.01   Comprehensive plan adopted by reference
§ 152.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s comprehensive plan, and any and all amendments, is hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Res. 2018-17, passed 9-10-2018)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s zoning regulations, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 646, passed 9-23-2019)
CHAPTER 154: TRAILERS
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Location
   
154.03   Trailer court zoning
   
154.04   Trailer court specifications
   
154.05   Service buildings; Accommodations
   
154.06   Management
   
154.07   Fire protection
   
154.08   Licencing
   
154.09   Violation; license revocation and suspension
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPENDENT TRAILER COACH. A trailer coach which does not have a toilet and a
bathtub or shower.   
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated health authority or his or her
authorized representative.
   INDEPENDENT TRAILER COACH. A trailer coach that has a toilet and a bathtub
or shower.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A building housing toilet facilities for men and women,
with service sink and laundry facilities and with separate bath or shower
accommodations.
   TRAILER COACH. Any structure used for living, sleeping, business, or storage
purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, jacks, horses, or
skirtings and which has been, or reasonably may be, equipped with wheels or
other devices for transporting the structure from place to place, whether by
motive power or other means. TRAILER COACH shall include camp car and house
car.
   TRAILER COACH SPACE. A plot of ground within a trailer court designated for
the accommodation of one trailer coach, also called a TRAILER LOT.
   TRAILER COURT. Any plot of ground upon which two or more trailer coaches,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located.
(Ord. 278, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 154.02 LOCATION.
   (A)   No person shall park any trailer coach on any street, alley, highway,
or other public place, or on any tract of land occupied or unoccupied, except
as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any street,
alley, or highway for not longer than four hours, subject to any other
regulation imposed by the traffic and parking regulations.
   (C)   Any occupied trailer coach used for sleeping or living purposes shall
not be parked for any period overnight except in a trailer court.
   (D)   No person shall park or occupy any trailer coach on the premises of
any occupied dwelling or any lot which is not a part of the premises of any
occupied dwelling, either of which is situated outside an approved trailer
court, except the parking of only one unoccupied trailer coach in an accessory
private garage building, or in a rear yard in any district, is permitted;
provided, no living quarters shall be maintained or any business practiced in
such trailer coach while so parked or stored. This division (D) does not apply
to trailer sales or storage lots.
   (E)   An occupied trailer coach, except as otherwise may herein or by other
ordinance be provided, shall be parked only in an area zoned for trailer courts
and in an established court duly licensed and a trailer court.
(Ord. 278, passed 2-1-1971) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03 TRAILER COURT ZONING.
   (A)   The City Council may, by special permit, after public hearing,
authorize the location of a trailer court as a non-conforming use in any
district from which a trailer court is prohibited by any zoning ordinance. Any
special permit shall contain such rules and regulations as authorized by the
City Council and shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the
building, work, or use authorized by such special permit is not commenced
within one year from the date of the issuance of the special permit and if a
license is not issued for the maintenance of a trailer court if a license be
required by this chapter or any other chapter. Notice of a hearing for the
issuance of such special permit shall be given by publication one time in the
city official newspaper, and no hearing shall be held less than seven days
after the publication of such notice.
   (B)   The request for establishing a location for a trailer court shall be
made by petition in form as prescribed by the City Council and such petition
shall be accompanied by a plot plan by a registered engineer, architect, or
qualified planner, complete in detail and showing the following:
      (1)   Location and legal description;
      (2)   Entrance to and exits from the court;
      (3)   Vehicular roadways, driveways, and pedestrian walks;
      (4)   Design, showing size, and arrangement of trailer coach spaces and
stands, location of roadways, service, and utility buildings;
      (5)   Topography;
      (6)   Area set aside for recreation, clothes washing and drying, storage,
off-street parking and restrooms;
      (7)   Fencing and screen planting on premises;
      (8)   Provision for trash and garbage removal;
      (9)   Gas, electric, and phone service connections to each space;
      (10)   Provisions for lighting of roadways, driveways, and pedestrian
walks;
      (11)   Water and sewer availability and distribution lines to each space;
and
      (12)   Typical lot plan.
(Ord. 278, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 154.04 TRAILER COURT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Every trailer court shall be located on a well-drained area and the
premises shall be properly graded so as to prevent the accumulation of storm
and other waters.
   (B)   Areas shall be provided for parking of motor vehicles. Such areas
shall accommodate at least the number of vehicles equal to the number of
trailer coach spaces provided. If a plan is approved whereby parking area is
provided next to the trailer coach, only the number of vehicles shall be parked
next to a trailer coach as provided in the plot plan.
   (C)   No trailer court shall be composed of an area of less than two acres.
Each trailer coach space provided for the occupancy of a single mobile home
unit shall have an area of not less than 5,000 square feet, and no trailer
court shall be permitted an average density of trailer coach spaces of more
than seven per acre.
   (D)   All trailer courts shall provide trailer coach spaces sufficiently
sized so that no trailer or any structure is located less than ten feet from
the nearest adjacent boundary.
   (E)   Space between trailers may be used for parking of motor vehicles if
space is clearly designated and the vehicle is parked at least ten feet from
the nearest adjacent boundary, and no more vehicles may be parked in such
designated area than designated in the plot plan.
   (F)   Each trailer coach space shall abut or face a clear unoccupied space,
driveway, roadway, or street within the trailer court area of not less than 28
feet in width, which shall have unobstructed access to a public highway,
street, or alley.
   (G)   The trailer court shall be surrounded by a landscaped strip of open
space 50 feet wide along the street frontage of a major street and 25 feet wide
along all other perimeter lines of the trailer court area.
   (H)   In no instance shall a trailer court be created in an area where it
would be completely surrounded by single family residences or a residential
district, nor in an area where the entrance and exits would front on a single-
family or residential district.
   (I)   The trailer court shall be so planned and arranged that all trailer
court spaces and accessory buildings shall have access only on an interior
roadway within the trailer court. Any trailer coach spaces abutting a dedicated
right-of-way shall be fenced and screen planted.
   (J)   The City Council, before issuing any special permit, shall give due
consideration to environmental factors involved in order that all livability
may be secured and any adverse affects to surrounding property valued or uses
must be considered by the City Council.
   (K)   In considering livability, recognition shall be given to the setting
of trailer coaches on lots, the availability of schools and shopping
facilities, the nature of the abutting zone districts, and the zone district in
which the trailer court is to be located.
   (L)   Consideration shall be given to school district plan and density.
   (M)   Signs shall be permitted only by consent of the City Council.
   (N)   Each trailer coach shall be set back on its trailer coach space a
minimum of 25 feet, have a minimum rear yard set back of 15 feet, and minimum
side yard set back of ten feet, except where the trailer coach space is a
corner lot the side yard set back abutting an interior thoroughfare shall be 25
feet.
   (O)   Wheels shall be removed from all trailer coaches. No permanent
attachment shall be added to a trailer coach. No temporary buildings or parts
of buildings shall be attached to or added to a trailer coach without first
obtaining a license from the City Council. The City Council, or a committee
composed of two Council members appointed by the Mayor annually with the
consent of the Council, shall have authority to issue a license without hearing
and for a fee not to exceed $5.
   (P)   Clotheslines or the hanging of clothes on any trailer coach space
shall not be permitted, and the trailer court shall provide a general area for
clothes drying space.
   (Q)   Accessory buildings and accommodations shall be as provided for by
this chapter or the trailer court license.
   (R)   All trailer coaches must be skirted with a suitable material approved
by the City Council, and blocked with special jacks or other suitable
equipment.
   (S)   Each trailer coach space must provide separate telephone jacks, water
and sewer hook-ups with shut-offs as approved by the City Council or the City
Health Officer and the City Engineer, and separate electrical hook-ups. In the
event overhead electrical power is to be used in the trailer court, a plan must
be submitted and approved by the City Council, and in approving the plan, the
City Council must give consideration to scenic beauty.
   (T)   The operator, owner, and licensee of the trailer court shall be
responsible and liable for all city taxes, assessments, and utility fees for
service.
   (U)   All waste from showers, toilets, laundries, faucets, and lavatories
shall be wasted into a sewer system extended from and connected with the city
sewer system. All plumbing shall comply with local and state laws.
   (V)   Storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in the trailer court shall
be so managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident, or air pollution. All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight,
water-tight, rodent-proof containers, which shall be provided in sufficient
number and capacity to prevent any refuse from overflowing and placed as
approved by the City Council. All containers shall be contained within a city-
approved enclosure, which enclosure shall be upon a concrete slab or base.
   (W)   All sewer and water utilities, other city utilities, roadways, and
other items required by the special permit or license shall be constructed and
maintained at the expense of the owner or licensee of the trailer court.
(Ord. 278, passed 2-1-1971) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05 SERVICE BUILDINGS; ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (A)   Each trailer court which maintains or allows a dependent trailer coach
or coaches in the trailer court shall be provided with one or more service
buildings adequately equipped with flush type toilet fixtures. No service
building shall contain less than two toilets for females, one toilet for males,
one lavatory and shower for each sex, one urinal for males, and one service
sink.
   (B)   Service buildings shall:
      (1)   Be located 20 feet or more from any trailer coach space;
      (2)   Be of permanent construction and adequately lighted;
      (3)   Be of moisture resistant materials, to permit frequent washing and
cleaning;
      (4)   Have sufficient toilet and laundry facilities, according to
requirements promulgated by the Health Officer, to serve adequately both males
and females;
      (5)   Have adequate-heating facilities and maintain a temperature of 70º;
and maintain a minimum of three gallons of hot water per hour, per trailer
court space during time of peak demands;
      (6)   Have all rooms well ventilated with all openings effectively
screened; and
      (7)   Have at least one service sink, supplied with hot and cold water in
a separate room.
(Ord. 278, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 154.06 MANAGEMENT.
   It is hereby made the duty of the attendant or person in charge and the
licensee to:
   (A)   Maintain the trailer court in a clean, orderly, and sanitary condition
at all times; and
   (B)   See that the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable laws
and ordinances are complied with and enforced, and report promptly to the
proper authorities any violations thereof or any other violations of law which
may come to his or her attention.
(Ord. 278, passed 2-1-1971)
§ 154.07 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   The trailer court area shall be subject to the rules and regulations
of the Chief of the Fire Department or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   (B)   No temporary or permanent additions of any kind shall be built onto,
or become a part of, any trailer coach except as provided by §
154.04; provided skirting on trailer coaches is mandatory, but such skirting
shall not permanently attach the trailer coach to the ground or create a fire
hazard.
   (C)   The wheels of the trailer coach shall be removed. Jacks, or other
suitable equipment and stabilizers, shall be placed under the frame of the
trailer coach to prevent movement on the springs while the trailer coach is
parked and occupied.
   (D)   Appliances using liquefied petroleum gas shall be installed and
maintained in compliance with all state and local laws and ordinances.
(Ord. 278, passed 2-1-1971) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.08 LICENCING.
   (A)   No person shall establish, operate, maintain, or permit to be
established, operated, or maintained, upon any property owned or controlled by
him or her a trailer court without having first secured a license therefor from
the City Council. Such license shall expire on December 31 following issuance,
but may be renewed as provided herein from year to year.
   (B)   The application for such license or the renewal thereof shall be filed
with the City Auditor, accompanied with the payment of a license fee of $3 for
each trailer coach space in the existing or proposed trailer court.
Applications for licenses shall be in writing and signed by the applicant, and
contain the following:
      (1)   The name and the address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the trailer court;
      (3)   A complete plan of the trailer court, showing compliance with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder;
      (4)   Such further information as may be requested by the Health Officer
to enable him or her to determine that the proposed trailer court will comply
with legal requirements;
      (5)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      (6)   The number, location, and size of all trailer coach spaces;
      (7)   The location and width of roadways and walkways;
      (8)   The location of service buildings and other proposed structures;
      (9)   The location of water and sewer lines; and
      (10)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the trailer court.
   (C)   Before such license may be issued, the premises must be inspected and
approved by the City Council, Health Officer, Chief of Police, and the Chief of
the Fire Department, or a duly authorized representative of the above named
officials, as complying with the provisions of this chapter and other
applicable ordinances.
   (D)   Any such license may be transferred from one person to another upon
written application of the holder thereof and with approval of the City
Council.
(Ord. 278, passed 2-1-1971) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.09 VIOLATION; LICENSE REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   The City Council may revoke any license issued pursuant to this chapter if,
after due hearing, it determines that the holder thereof has violated any of
the provisions of this chapter, or that any trailer coach or trailer court is
being maintained in an unsanitary or unsafe manner, or is a nuisance.
(Ord. 278, passed 2-1-1971)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Section Code Section
SDCL Section            Code Section
1-25-2(1)               31.15
2-14-4                  90.51
6-1-2.1                 31.16
9-1-1                   10.02,
                        10.04
9-8-5                   31.15
9-13-13                 10.04
9-13-16                 10.15
Chapter 9-14            31.16
9-19-1                  10.04
9-19-3                  90.07,
                        110.05
                        70.99,
                        90.01,
                        90.05,
9-29-3                  90.06,
                        90.08,
                        90.21 -
                        90.23,
                        90.52
9-29-7                  110.21 -
                        110.23
                        90.04,
                        90.35,
9-29-11                 90.37,
                        90.39,
                        90.50
                        90.01,
                        90.04 -
                        90.08,
                        90.20 -
9-29-12                 90.23,
                        90.36,
                        90.38,
                        90.39,
                        90.50,
                        90.52
                        90.02 -
                        90.05,
                        90.07,
9-29-13                 90.23,
                        90.39,
                        90.50,
                        95.02
9-31-1                  72.01
9-31-2                  72.01
                        90.04,
                        90.23,
                        90.24,
                        90.38,
9-32-7                  90.39,
                        90.50,
                        90.52,
                        95.02,
                        95.04,
                        95.06
9-32-10                 90.04,
                        95.02
9-32-12                 95.22,
                        95.23
Chapter 9-34            111.21
9-34-1                  90.22
9-40-28                 90.52
10-6-137                35.06,
                        35.24
10-6-137(1)             35.06
10-6-137(2)             35.06
10-6-137(3)             35.06
10-6-137(4)             35.06
10-6-137(5)             35.06
10-6-137(6)             35.06
10-6-137(7)             35.06
10-6-137(8)             35.06
                        35.06,
10-6-141                35.21,
                        35.24
10-6-142                35.20
                        35.01,
10-45                   35.06,
                        35.99
                        35.01,
10-46                   35.03,
                        35.99
10-52                   35.04
10-52-1                 35.01
Chapter 11-3            91.03
Chapter 11-4            91.03
11-6-26                 151.02,
                        151.03
11-7-2                  35.06
11-7-3                  35.06
11-8-1 et seq.          35.20,
                        35.21
11-8-4                  35.06
21-10-1                 95.01
21-10-3                 95.01
21-10-5                 95.07
21-10-5 through 21-10-9 95.99
21-10-6                 95.07
25-4-81.2               110.42
32-3-2.4                74.30
32-14-7                 72.01
32-15-17                74.17
32-15-20                74.03
32-17                   74.03,
                        74.17
32-20-1(4)              74.30
32-20-13                74.31
32-24-9                 70.10,
                        70.99
Chapter 32-36           95.04
32-36-2                 53.06
34A-6-1.2               95.01
34A-6-29                50.29
34A-7-9                 95.02
                        116.03 -
35-20G                  116.05,
                        116.10
35-20G-1                116.02
34-37-10                94.31
34-48-5                 115.99
                        110.20 -
Title 35                110.23,
                        115.99
35-1-1                  35.05
35-1-5.3                110.03
35-2-11.1               115.99
35-4-2(3)(5)            110.35
35-4-2(4)(5)(6)(11)(14) 110.35
35-4-81                 110.40,
                        110.42
35-4-81.2               110.40
35-9-2                  110.36
Chapter 36-21           92.02
38-8A-1-21              151.07
40-2-7                  90.09
49-16A-94               73.02
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        5-10-1993   91.02
-        6-14-1993   93.21
-        12-13-1993  32.08
94-16    7-11-1994   Ch. 75, Schd. I
94-29    11-14-1994  90.99 
98-01-04 1-12-1998   92.05
98-10-02 9-21-1998   50.24
98-10-07 10-19-1998  34.16
00-05-01 5-8-2000    93.20
00-07-02 7-10-2000   52.04
03-02-02 2-10-2003   31.20
03-03-01 3-10-2003   52.41
03-08-05 8-11-2003   35.02,
                     35.01
04-09    5-10-2004   33.02
04-10    5-10-2004   33.01 
2007-09  9-18-2007   33.03
2008-15  8-11-2008   50.23,
                     51.20
2009-16  12-14-2009  52.42
2010-02  1-11-2010   53.06
2012-11  12-10-2012  91.17
2014-02  2-10-2014   73.99
2016-12  8-2-2016    32.05
2017-06  4-3-2017    90.20,
                     90.99
2018-04  6-4-2018    33.01
2018-12  7-2-2018    74.02
2018-13  7-2-2018    74.99
2018-17  9-10-2018   152.01
2019-02  1-7-2019    150.01,
                     150.99
2019-03  2-4-2019    34.15
2019-08  5-6-2019    31.16
2019-09  5-6-2019    31.15
2019-10  5-6-2019    30.16
2020-06  3-2-2020    91.99
2020-07  3-2-2020    93.08
2020-08  3-2-2020    72.99
2020-20  7-6-2020    35.06
2020-21  7-6-2020    51.21
2020-22  7-6-2020    50.27
-        2--2021     52.41
2023-5   3-13-2023   51.21
2023-6   3-13-2023   50.27
2024-4   2-5-2024    50.27
2024-5   2-5-2024    51.21
2024-8   2-5-2024    50.32
2024-9   2-5-2024    50.33
2024-16  5-6-2024    32.05
2024-20  7-1-2024    32.09
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     53.01 -
                     53.05,
406      - -         53.20 -
                     53.26,
                     53.40 -
                     53.46
413A     - -         30.01
426      - -         91.03
430      - -         51.20 -
                     51.23
437      - -         53.47
438      - -         72.01
513      - -         130.01
518      - -         51.21,
                     51.22
                     52.01 -
                     52.03,
519      - -         52.20 -
                     52.27,
                     52.40
521      - -         71.03,
                     71.99
540      - -         52.41
642      - -         150.16
6        11-27-1891  91.04,
                     91.99
14       8-11-1892   10.16,
                     10.99
                     130.02,
16       8-11-1892   130.21,
                     130.99
25       9-16-1893   10.99
31       7-8-1895    30.01
49       6-8-1897    74.99
50       7-8-1897    31.02
52       5-7-1899    130.02,
                     130.99
55       5-22-1901   10.16,
                     10.99
59       8-20-1901   150.30
60       10-19-1901  130.20,
                     130.99
71       9-15-1904   150.30
                     130.21,
78       3-7-1907    130.22,
                     130.99
86       7-8-1908    70.03
98       12-8-1910   73.01,
                     73.99
99       12-8-1910   73.01,
                     73.99
100      12-8-1910   95.22,
                     95.99
                     94.16,
119      1-8-1913    94.30,
                     94.99
                     70.01 -
144      8-2-1920    70.03,
                     70.06,
                     70.07
                     113.01,
151      9-4-1923    113.02,
                     113.05,
                     113.06
159      5-4-1926    94.99
194      9-14-1942   70.01 -
                     70.09
200      8-5-1946    70.27,
                     70.99
200.5    8-5-1946    70.25,
                     70.99
257      11-6-1967   70.10,
                     70.99
263      5-6-1968    94.02
278      2-1-1971    154.01 -
                     154.09
303      10-1-1973   50.22
                     74.15 -
312      1-14-1975   74.17,
                     74.99
348      5-19-1980   94.30,
                     94.99
                     92.01 -
366      2-1-1982    92.05,
                     92.99
369      9-13-1982   73.02,
                     73.99
                     51.01,
                     51.02,
374      5-23-1983   51.04 -
                     51.07,
                     51.99
734      5-23-1983   51.35,
                     51.37
                     94.15,
385      8-5-1985    94.17,
                     94.99
393      3-2-1987    71.03
412A     1-30-1992   71.99
440      9-12-1994   130.03
510      8-12-1996   70.10
                     50.01 -
                     50.07,
                     50.20,
517      9-15-1997   50.21,
                     50.25 -
                     50.31,
                     50.99
509      9-16-1996   53.48
511      9-16-1996   53.03,
                     53.99
525      6-10-1998   93.01 -
                     93.06
                     112.01 -
526      8-12-1998   112.08,
                     112.99
                     151.01 -
                     151.09,
529      2-8-1999    151.20 -
                     151.27,
                     151.99
537      4-12-2000   151.07
545      3-12-2001   31.17
                     111.01 -
                     111.07,
546      5-14-2001   111.20 -
                     111.28,
                     111.99
                     110.01 -
                     110.05,
549      3-11-2002   110.20 -
                     110.23,
                     110.35 -
                     110.43
551      5-13-2002   110.36
552      11-12-2002  71.05
                     51.35,
555      5-12-2003   51.37,
                     51.99
557      8-11-2003   113.04
                     35.01 -
558      8-11-2003   35.04,
                     35.99
561      6-14-2004   95.20
314      6-14-2004   95.21,
                     95.99
564      8-9-2004    110.42
569      9-12-2005   53.99
571      10-17-2005  35.02
580      4-9-2007    35.05
                     95.01 -
                     95.07,
581      4-9-2007    95.22,
                     95.23,
                     95.99
592      5-11-2009   110.03
594      12-14-2009  130.01
595      12-14-2009  52.42
596      1-11-2010   53.06
602-2011 6-13-2011   94.01
603-2011 8-8-2011    10.15
606      1-9-2012    94.31
612      4-8-2013    50.25,
                     50.29
                     71.01,
614      11-11-2013  72.03,
                     70.04
618      2-10-2014   73.02,
                     73.99
621      12-14-2015  91.01
624      1-11-2016   30.15
625      2-1-2016    51.36
                     90.01 -
                     90.09,
                     90.20 -
627      9-12-2016   90.24,
                     90.35 -
                     90.39,
                     90.50 -
                     90.52
635      2-5-2018    31.01
637      5-7-2018    70.26,
                     70.99
638      7-2-2018    74.01 -
                     74.04
640      10-1-2018   71.01,
                     71.04
643      8-5-2019    150.18
644      8-5-2019    150.17
645      8-5-2019    150.15
646      9-23-2019   153.01
648      11-4-2019   51.03
660      - -2020     114.01 -
                     114.13
652      2-3-2020    72.02,
                     72.03
653      2-3-2020    91.15,
                     91.16
654      4-6-2020    90.20
                     115.01 -
656      5-5-2020    115.05,
                     115.99
658      7-6-2020    35.20 -
                     35.26
-        2- -2021    52.41
664      5-3-2021    30.15
-        9- -2021    31.17
                     116.01 -
672      9-13-2021   116.15,
                     116.99
673      10-11-2021  52.05
674      12-13-2021  90.01
                     90.65 -
675      12-13-2021  90.69,
                     90.99
678      1-10-2022   10.15
688      6-12-2023   94.30
689      7-10-2023   30.15
695      4-8-2024    31.01
697      10-7-2024   51.36
700      10-7-2024   30.18
702      10-7-2024   71.04,
                     71.99
705      11-4-2024   50.29
707      11-4-2024   50.23
708      11-4-2024   51.20
709      12-2-2024   71.01,
                     71.99
710      1-6-2025    94.17
                     74.30,
712      2-3-2025    74.31,
                     74.99
                     30.01,
713      2-3-2025    30.16,
                     35.22
                    
 
