HOT SPRINGS, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 1257, passed 4-15-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of an ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles, chapters
and sections, shall be known and designated as the “code,” for which
designation “code of ordinances” or “codified ordinances” may be substituted.
Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of the law
as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Hot Springs in the County of Fall River and the State of
South Dakota.
   CODE. The revised ordinances of Hot Springs in their entirety, including
each and every section thereof. The entire CODE is intended by the Council to
constitute an ordinance in revision of the ordinances of the city, within the
meaning of SDCL §§ 9-19-16 and 9-19-17.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNTY. Fall River County.
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of Hot Springs, South Dakota.
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Hot Springs, South
Dakota.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words “swear” and “sworn”
shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and affirmed.”
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county or counties in which the municipality is
located, or his or her heirs or successors.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for PUBLICATION shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be published shall be equivalent to the required publication.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   RESOLUTION. Any determination that, decision or direction of the governing
body of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating, effecting or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STATE. The words THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of South Dakota.
   STREET.  STREET includes AVENUE.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   VARIATIONS IN PUNCTUATION; TYPOGRAPHICAL ERRORS AND THE LIKE. No variation
in punctuation, either formal or informal, consistent or not, shall affect the
validity of this code, nor shall obvious or apparent defects in spelling or
typography be construed as to invalidate any portion hereof, so long as the
purpose and intent of the section is clear.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Include any representation of words, letters or
figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer
of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions and regulations as may be proper and necessary to carry
into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Municipalities are authorized to provide for the punishment of each
violation of an ordinance, resolution or regulation with a fine not to exceed
the amount established by SDCL § 22-6-2(2).
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 22-6-2(2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   WARD ELECTIONS
         
32.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
         
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT; PRISONERS
         
34.   TAX AND FINANCE
         
35.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT
         
36.   FINE AND BOND SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Mayor
   
30.03   Mayor; general duties
   
30.04   Power to sign or veto ordinances and resolutions
   
30.05   Reports and recommendations to Council
   
30.06   Filling vacancy in office of Mayor; disability
   
30.07   City Council
   
30.08   Council meetings
   
30.09   Quorum for Council meetings
   
30.10   Voting at Council meetings
   
30.11   Adjourned Council meetings
   
30.12   Parliamentary rules for Council meetings
   
30.13   Salaries of Mayor and Aldermen
   
30.14   Appointment, term, bond and the like of appointive officers
   
30.15   General duties of appointive officers
   
30.16   Travel expenses
   
30.17   (Reserved)
   
30.18   State municipal retirement system; participation; effective date
   
30.19   Employees included
   
30.20   Salary deductions; city’s contribution
   
30.21   Administrative fee
   
30.22   Finance Officer
   
30.23   General duties of Finance Officer
   
30.24   City Attorney
   
30.25   Additional compensation of City Attorney for extraordinary services
   
30.26   Public Works Engineer
   
30.27   Planning Commission
   
30.28   Code of conduct for elected officials
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The city shall be governed under the Aldermanic form of government, with a
Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
§ 30.02 MAYOR.
   The chief executive of the city shall be a Mayor, who shall be a citizen of
the United States, a qualified elector of and reside within the limits of the
municipality. The Mayor shall serve terms of two years and may hold more than
one term. The Mayor shall hold his or her office for two years or until his or
her successor is elected and qualified. This provision shall take effect in
2008.
(Prior Code, § 2-2) (Ord. 1046, passed 3-13-2007)
§ 30.03 MAYOR; GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by the laws and
ordinances and take care that such laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)
§ 30.04 POWER TO SIGN OR VETO ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   The Mayor shall have the power to sign or veto any ordinance or resolution
passed by the City Council, as well as the power to veto any part or item of an
ordinance or resolution appropriating money.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)
§ 30.05 REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall, annually and from time to time, give the Council
information relative to the affairs of the city and shall recommend for its
consideration such measures as he or she may deem expedient.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
§ 30.06 FILLING VACANCY IN OFFICE OF MAYOR; DISABILITY.
   In case of any vacancy, from any cause, in the office of the Mayor, the same
shall be filled by election for the unexpired term, to be held as soon as
practicable after the vacancy occurs. Until such time as the vacancy is filled,
or during the time of temporary disability of the Mayor, the powers and duties
of Mayor shall devolve upon the President of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-6)
§ 30.07 CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall consist of two Aldermen elected from and by the
electors of each ward of the municipality. Aldermen shall serve terms of two
years and may hold office for more than one term. In implementing the two-year
term of office, the City Council shall stagger the initial terms of the
Aldermen to provide that both Aldermen from one ward are not up for re-election
in the same year and to provide that beginning with the 2010 election, four
Aldermen will regularly be up for election each year.
(Prior Code, § 2-7) (Ord. 1046, passed 3-13-2007)
§ 30.08 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The City Council shall hold its regular meetings at the Mueller Civic
Center, 801 S. 6th Street or at such other place as directed by the City
Council, in the city at 7:00 p.m. on the first and third Mondays of each month.
If a regular meeting shall fall upon a holiday, the regular meeting shall be
held on the day following. Special meetings may be called by the Finance
Officer at any time upon request of the Mayor or three Aldermen. When any
special meeting is called as herein provided, the Finance Officer shall cause
notice thereof to be given to each of the Aldermen personally or left in
writing at his or her place of business or at his or her residence. Such notice
shall specify the time for and purpose of holding such special meeting. At all
meetings of the City Council, the Mayor shall preside, but he or she shall have
no vote except in case of a tie. The meetings of the City Council shall be open
to the public, but it shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any way
with the deliberation of the Council at such meetings, and no person not a
member of the Council shall address or deliver any remarks to the Council at
such meetings, without first asking for and receiving the privilege of so
doing.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
§ 30.09 QUORUM FOR COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   A majority of the Aldermen elected shall constitute a quorum to do business,
but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absentees, and when any member so absent declines or refuses to present himself
or herself upon the call or request of the members so present, the Council may
impose any reasonable penalty upon such absent member or members for each and
every offense, unless excused by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-9)
§ 30.10 VOTING AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   No action of the Council shall be effective unless upon a vote of a
majority of a quorum. No member shall be permitted to pass his or her vote on
any matter submitted for balloting to any meeting of the Council, except when
such a vote would be a conflict of interest.
   (B)   The “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken by roll call upon the final
passage of all ordinances and resolutions and upon any proposal to create a
liability against the city or for the expenditure or appropriation of its
money, and in all other cases at the request of any member, and shall be
entered on the journal of its proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 2-10)
§ 30.11 ADJOURNED COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Council may take an adjournment of a meeting to a later date, in which
event the adjourned meeting shall be considered as a part of the first meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-11)
§ 30.12 PARLIAMENTARY RULES FOR COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Robert’s Rules of Orders, Newly Revised are hereby adopted as the rules to
govern the deliberations of the Council, insofar as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 2-12)
§ 30.13 SALARIES OF MAYOR AND ALDERMAN.
   (A)   Effective May 1, 2003, the Mayor of the city shall receive as
compensation for his or her services a monthly salary of $300 and $50 for each
regular and special meeting. Effective May 1, 2004, the Mayor of the city,
shall receive as compensation for his or her services a monthly salary of $800
and $50 for each regular and special meeting. Each Alderman shall be paid a
monthly salary of $200, plus $50 for each regular and special meeting of the
City Council attended by him or her and $50 for each meeting attended by him or
her acting as a member of a Board of Equalization.
   (B)   The compensation for the Mayor and Aldermen for any special meeting
may be waived if action is taken by the City Council to waive such compensation
at such special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-13) (Ord. 994, passed 4-29-2003; Ord. 1120, passed 10- -2012)
§ 30.14 APPOINTMENT, TERM, BOND AND THE LIKE OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   The mode of appointment of all appointive officers, their terms of office
and the manner of their qualifications shall be as provided, all appointive
officers shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Council and shall
qualify by furnishing the required bond conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties, and shall take and subscribe to the oath of
office.
(Prior Code, § 2-24)
§ 30.15 GENERAL DUTIES OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The duties of the various appointive officers of the city shall be
such as are ordinarily undertaken by such officers and as provided by the
ordinances and by statute.
   (B)   Such officers shall do and perform such duties as may be assigned to
them by the Council or other body or person authorized to prescribe such
duties.
(Prior Code, § 2-25)
§ 30.16 TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   (A)   The city will not pay for any travel expenses incurred by officers and
employees, unless such travel was authorized, in advance, by the Council.
   (B)   Payment of or reimbursement for such expenses shall be made in accord
with the regulation adopted by the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-26)
§ 30.17 (RESERVED).
§ 30.18 STATE MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM; PARTICIPATION; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   The city shall become a participating municipality in the state
municipal retirement system, as provided by law, for the purpose of including
police officers and/or general employees in its employ under the said state
municipal retirement system, hereinafter called the retirement system.
   (B)   The effective date of the city’s participation in the retirement
system shall be January 1, 1967.
(Prior Code, § 2-28)
§ 30.19 EMPLOYEES INCLUDED.
   (A)   All police officers in the employ of the city as of the above date
shall be included in the membership of the retirement system; and all persons
who thereafter become police officers in the employ of the city shall be
included in the membership of the retirement system.
   (B)   All general employees of the city as of the above date shall be
included in the membership of the retirement system; and all persons who
thereafter become general employees of the city shall be included in the
membership of the retirement system.
(Prior Code, § 2-29)
§ 30.20 SALARY DEDUCTIONS; CITY’S CONTRIBUTION.
   (A)   The Finance Officer is hereby directed to deduct 8% of the salaries
paid police officers and 6% of the salaries paid general employees and forward
the same to the said retirement system; said deductions to be made from each
and every police officer’s and/or general employee’s salary on each and every
payroll and for each and every payroll period subsequent to the effective date
of the city’s participation in the retirement system.
   (B)   The Finance Officer is hereby authorized to pay from city funds a
matching 8% or 6% of salaries, and to forward the same to said retirement
system, together with the payment of the employee’s contributions as provided
above.
(Prior Code, § 2-30) (Ord. 987, passed 8-13-2002)
§ 30.21 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   The Finance Officer is hereby authorized to pay from city funds an annual
administration fee in an amount as set by the City Council from time to time,
for each employee who is a member, retirant or a beneficiary because of the
city’s participation in the retirement plan, and to forward the same to said
retirement system upon certification of the retirement system.
(Prior Code, § 2-31)
§ 30.22 FINANCE OFFICER.
   There is hereby created for the city, the office of Finance Officer, who
shall be a full-time, benefitted hourly employee hired by a committee appointed
by the Mayor and subject to approval of the City Council, and who shall perform
all of the duties of the Auditor and Treasurer as provided by the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the city.
(SDCL § 9-14-3) (Prior Code, § 2-42) (Ord. 1230, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 30.23 GENERAL DUTIES OF FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Finance Officer shall:
   (A)   Keep the regular books of account (SDCL § 9-14-18);
   (B)   Supervise the accounting system (SDCL § 9-14-19);
   (C)   Keep a record of governing board proceedings (SDCL § 9-14-17);
   (D)   Draw and countersign all warrants (SDCL §§ 9-14-17, 9-14-18);
   (E)   Keep the corporate seal (SDCL § 9-14-17);
   (F)   Countersign all contracts (SDCL § 9-14-17);
   (G)   Audit and adjust all claims against the municipality before they are
allowed by the governing board (SDCL § 9-14-21);
   (H)   Keep a book in which all contracts shall be entered (SDCL § 9-14-21);
   (I)   Certify annual tax levy to county auditor (SDCL § 9-21-20);
   (J)   Maintain special assessment record (SDCL § 9-43-98);
   (K)   File bonds of all employees and officials of municipality except
Auditor’s bond (SDCL § 9-14-9);
   (L)   Prepare, publish and file annual financial report (SDCL § 9-22-21);
   (M)   Maintain bond record (SDCL § 9-22-22);
   (N)   Prepare budget before September 1 of each year and submit to governing
board (SDCL § 9-22-23);
   (O)   Maintain a file of annual inventories (SDCL Chapter 5-24);
   (P)   Receive monies of municipality and maintain a cash receipts journal
(SDCL § 9-22-2);
   (Q)   Invest surplus cash balances of municipality (SDCL § 9-22-12);
   (R)   Maintain a warrant register listing all warrants issued by funds (SDCL
§ 9-22-18);
   (S)   Report to the governing board giving a full and detailed account of
all receipts and expenditures since the last report (SDCL § 9-22-20);
   (T)   Maintain a register of all warrants not paid for want of funds (SDCL §
9-23-9); and
   (U)   File Auditor’s bond (SDCL § 9-14-9).
(Prior Code, § 2-43)
§ 30.24 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The office of the City Attorney, as heretofore created, is hereby continued.
When required by the City Council or any officer of the city, the City Attorney
shall furnish an opinion upon any matter relating to the affairs of the city or
the official duties of such officer; conduct the prosecution of all actions or
proceedings arising out of the violation of any ordinance; and perform such
other professional services incident to this office as may be required by
ordinance or directed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-54)
§ 30.25 ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION OF CITY ATTORNEY FOR EXTRAORDINARY SERVICES.
   (A)   If the City Council shall require the City Attorney to render
assistance or perform services in connection with any revision of the city
ordinances, or the issuance of municipal bonds of any kind, or if the City
Attorney shall represent the city in any action or proceeding in the Circuit or
Supreme Court, or in any Federal Court, or before any Administrative Board or
Commission, he or she shall receive such compensation in addition to his or her
salary as may be agreed upon between the Council and him or her.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also be allowed and paid any actual expenses,
including court costs, which he or she may incur or pay out in connection with
the performance of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 2-55)
§ 30.26 PUBLIC WORKS ENGINEER.
   (A)   There is hereby created for the city the position of Public Works
Engineer, who shall be a full-time, benefitted, salaried employee hired by a
committee appointed by the Mayor and subject to the approval of the City
Council.
   (B)   The Public Works Engineer’s duties shall include the supervision of
all planning, construction and design of public works systems (utilities,
including: water and waste water), infrastructure, facilities, storage tanks,
chemical injection systems and structures of the city, and such other duties as
may be directed by the Mayor. The Public Works Engineer shall assist and work
with the Public Works Committee on any projects that they pursue, but the
Public Works Engineer shall be answerable to the Mayor and City Administrator.
   (C)   The Public Works Engineer must be a Professional Engineer registered
in the state of South Dakota.
(Prior Code, § 2-56) (Ord. 1049, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 1230, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 30.27 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Planning Commission, created. There is hereby created a City Planning
Commission for the city, and for land within three miles of its corporate
limits and not located within any other municipality.
(Prior Code, § 2-61)
   (B)   Membership, terms, vacancies, removal, compensation, expenses.
      (1)   The City Planning Commission shall consist of not less than five
and no greater than eight members appointed by the Mayor subject to the
approval of the City Council. All members shall be residents of the county with
ownership of real property within the city. The majority of members of this
Planning Commission shall be resident electors of the city qualified by
knowledge or experience to act in matters pertaining to the development and
administration of a comprehensive plan of development for the city and who
shall not hold any elective office in the municipal government. Resident
electors of the city shall have the first consideration for filling of
vacancies on the Commission.
      (2)   The term of each member of the Planning Commission shall be for
five years, except that when such Planning Commission is first appointed four
members shall be appointed to serve a term of three years and three members
shall be appointed for a term of five years. Thereafter appointment of each
member shall be five years.
      (3)   Any vacancy in a membership on the Planning Commission shall be
filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as for appointment.
      (4)   The Mayor, with the confirmation of the City Council, shall after
public hearing have authority to remove any member of the Planning Commission
for cause which cause shall be stated in writing and made a part of the record
of such hearing.
      (5)   All members of the Planning Commission shall serve as such without
compensation, except for actual expenses, which shall be subject to approval of
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-62)
   (C)   Organization. Upon appointment, the Planning Commission shall be
called together by the Mayor and shall organize by electing a Chairperson from
among its members for a term of one year with eligibility for re-election, and
may fill such other of its offices as it may create in a manner prescribed by
the rules of such Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-63)
   (D)   Meetings, rules, records. The Planning Commission shall hold at least
one regular meeting each month. Subject to the approval of the City Council, it
shall adopt such rules for transactions, findings and determinations which
shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 2-64)
   (E)   Annual report. The Planning Commission shall each year on or about May
1, make a report to the City Council of its proceedings with a statement of its
receipts and disbursements and the progress of its work during the preceding
year.
(Prior Code, § 2-65)
   (F)   Technical, engineering, clerical and other assistance. Subject to the
approval of the City Council, the Planning Commission may employ such
technical, engineering, clerical and other assistance as may be deemed
essential to carry on the work of the Planning Commission. Persons so employed
shall be governed by the same rules and regulations covering other municipal
employees. The compensation of all such employees shall be fixed by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-66)
   (G)   Contracts. All contracts and agreements relating to the work of the
Planning Commission and for services or materials required by it shall be made
by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-67)
   (H)   Powers, authorities, jurisdictions and duties of the Planning
Commission. The City Planning Commission shall have all the powers,
authorities, jurisdictions and duties set forth in SDCL Chapter 11-6, and such
other powers, authorities, jurisdictions and duties as are incident and
necessary to carrying out the purpose of SDCL Chapter 11-6.
(Prior Code, § 2-68)
(Ord. 1146, passed 8-12-2014)
§ 30.28 CODE OF CONDUCT FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Section 1: Elected Officials Conduct with One Another.
      (1)   Use civility and decorum in discussion and debate.
         (a)   Difficult questions, tough challenges to a particular point of
view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements of free
democracy in action. However, this does not allow, elected officials to make
belligerent, personal, disrespectful, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or
personally disparaging comments in public meetings or during individual
encounters. No shouting or physical actions that could be construed as
threatening or demeaning will be acceptable.
         (b)   If an elected official is personally offended by the remarks of
another official, the offended elected official should make notes of the actual
words used and call for a "point of personal privilege" that challenges the
other elected official to justify or apologize for the language used.
      (2)   Honor the role of the Mayor in maintaining order. It is the
responsibility of the Mayor (or in her/his absence, Council President or in
her/his absence, Council Vice President) to keep the comments of elected
officials on track during public meetings. Elected officials should honor
efforts by the Mayor to focus the discussion on current agenda items. If there
is a disagreement about the agenda or the Mayor's actions, those objections
should be voiced professionally and with reason, following commonly recognized
parliamentary procedures.
      (3)   Demonstrate effective problem-solving approaches. Elected officials
have a public forum to show how individuals with different points of view can
find common ground and seek a compromise that benefits the community as a
whole. This public forum should be used in an effective and beneficial manner.
   (B)   Section 2: Elected Officials Conduct with City Staff.
      (1)   Treat all staff as professionals. Clear, honest communication that
respects the abilities, experience, and the dignity of each individual is
expected. Inappropriate or disrespectful behavior towards staff is not
acceptable.
      (2)   Limit contact with city staff.
         (a)   Contact with city staff is encouraged during meetings,
especially within committee meetings where city employees are in attendance.
         (b)   Questions directed to city staff and/or requests for incident
background information shall first be directed to the City Administrator or
Finance Officer.
         (c)   Requests for follow-up or directions to staff should be made
only through the City Administrator or Finance Officer. When in doubt about
what type of staff contact is appropriate, elected officials should ask the
City Administrator or Finance Officer for direction. When appropriate,
materials supplied to an elected official in response to a request will be made
available to all elected officials so that all officials have equal access to
the same information.
         (d)   City staff are permitted to meet with elected officials on their
own volition
      (3)   Do not disrupt city staff from their jobs. Elected officials should
not disrupt city staff while they are in meetings, on the phone, or engaged in
performing their job functions in order to have their individual needs met.
      (4)   Never publicly criticize an individual employee. Elected officials
must never express concerns about the performance of a city employee in public,
to the employee directly, or to the employee's department head. Comments about
staff performance should only be made to the City Administrator, Finance
Officer, or Mayor through private correspondence or conversation.
      (5)   Do not attend meetings with city staff unless requested by staff.
         (a)   Even if the elected official does not say anything, the elected
official's presence implies support, shows partiality, intimidates staff, and
hampers staff's ability to do their jobs objectively.
         (b)   This does not apply to committee meetings.
      (6)   Do not solicit political support from staff. Elected officials
should not solicit any type of political support (financial contributions,
display of posters or lawn signs, name on support list, collection of petition
signatures, etc.) from city staff while they are working. City staff may, as
private citizens within their constitutional rights, support political
candidates. However, all such activities must be done away from the workplace
and the staff cannot identify themselves in any manner as city employees.
   (C)   Section 3: Elected Officials Conduct with the Public. Making the
public feel welcome is an important part of the democratic process. No signs of
partiality, prejudice, or disrespect should be evident on the part of elected
officials toward an individual participating in a public forum. Every effort
should be made to be fair and impartial to public testimony.
      (1)   Be welcoming to speakers and treat them with care and respect. For
many citizens, speaking in front of elected officials is a new and difficult
experience. Under such circumstances many are nervous. Elected officials are
expected to treat citizens with respect during public hearings. Elected
officials should commit their full attention to the speakers, actively listen
to speakers, and any materials relevant to the topic at hand. Comments and non-
verbal expressions should be appropriate, respectful, and professional.
Questions by elected officials to speakers should seek to clarify or expand
information.
      (2)   Ask for clarification, but avoid debate and argument with the
public. The elected officials can ask for a point of order if the speaker is
off the topic or exhibiting behavior or language the elected officials find
disturbing.
      (3)   Follow parliamentary procedure in conducting public meetings. The
city's ordinances require meetings of the elected officials to follow Robert's
Rules of Order. It is expected all elected officials will adhere to this
procedure in conducting meetings.
   (D)   Section 4: in Unofficial Settings.
      (1)   Make no promises on behalf of the city governing body in unofficial
settings. Elected officials will frequently be asked to explain actions of the
governing body or to give their opinion about an issue as they meet and talk
with constituents in the community. It is appropriate to give a brief overview
of city policy and to refer to city staff for further information. Overt or
implicit promises of specific council action, or to promise city staff will
take some specific action must not occur.
   (E)   Section 5: Elected Officials Conduct with other Public Agencies.
      (1)   Be clear about representing the city or personal interests. If an
elected official appears before another governmental agency or organization to
give a statement on an issue, the elected official must clearly state:
         (a)   Whether his or her statement reflects a personal opinion or is
the official stance of the City;
         (b)   Whether this is the majority or minority opinion of the Council.
      (2)   Representation of the city on an outside board, commission, or to
an outside agency.
         (a)   If the elected official is representing the city, that elected
official shall support and advocate the city's official position on an issue
and cannot foster or further a personal viewpoint that is inconsistent with the
official city position.
         (b)   Elected officials must inform the Council of their involvement
in an outside organization if that organization is or may become involved in
any issues within the city's jurisdiction. If an elected official publicly
represents or speaks on behalf of another organization whose positions differs
from the city's official position on any issue, that elected official must
clearly identify the organization upon whose behalf they are speaking and must
withdraw from voting or commenting as an elected official upon any action,
which would be deemed a conflict of interest.
      (3)   Representation of the city on intergovernmental commissions and
other outside entities. Elected officials serving on committees or boards as
the city representative on outside entities or agencies shall property
communicate with other elected officials on issues pertinent to the city.
   (F)   Section 6: Elected Officials Conduct with the Media.
      (1)   Expression of positions on issues. When communicating with the
media, elected officials shall clearly differentiate between personal opinions
and the official position of the city. An elected official represents one vote
of eight and until a vote on any issue is taken, elected officials' positions
are merely their own personal opinions.
      (2)   Discussions regarding staff members. Elected officials shall not
discuss personnel issues or other matters regarding individual staff members in
the media. Any issues pertaining to staff will be addressed directly to the
City Administrator or Finance Officer.
   (G)   Section 7: Sanctions and Violations Process.
      (1)   The first and most important step in this section is the
requirement that the offended elected official address the concern with the
offender including a description of the specific action observed, the
relationship of that event to the respective Code of Conduct and, if
applicable, the impact it had on the offended elected official. The purpose of
this first step is to assure that an attempt has been made to discuss the issue
and resolve the conflict without proceeding further. This step requires no
formal action and no involvement of other elected officials.
      (2)   Either party may request, and both must agree, to seek a third
party who will assist in facilitating the discussion toward a mutually
satisfactory conclusion.
      (3)   If the situation cannot be settled through the process in steps (1)
and (2), either elected official may choose to refer the concern to the entire
Council for review in an executive session meeting pursuant to SDCL 1-25-2(1).
The other Council members not involved in the situation will serve as a
committee of the whole for purposes of Code of Conduct violations and sanction
considerations.
      (4)   To present the concern to the Council the offended elected official
must advise the offending elected official that the issue will be taken to the
Council and subsequently ask the City Administrator to post the issue for the
earliest upcoming executive session. All laws pertaining to executive session
will apply.
      (5)   The Council will discuss the issue in order to:
         (a)   Become fully informed.
         (b)   Determine if there appears to be a violation of the governing
Code of Conduct.
         (c)   Seek resolution without further action or, if necessary,
schedule the issue for an upcoming public hearing for final determination
regarding whether a violation occurred.
         (d)   Determine what sanction is most appropriate; customarily,
sanctions are limited to a letter of reprimand, censure, or expulsion.
      (6)   A two-thirds vote of the Council at a regular Council meeting will
be required for a determination that a violation has occurred and likewise, a
two-thirds vote is required for sanctions to be imposed.
   (H)   Section 8. Due Process. Any time a violation of this Code is alleged,
the affected elected official(s) shall be entitled to notice of the alleged
violation(s) and a public hearing on the merits of the allegation(s).
      (l)    Any complaint of violation of this Code shall be made in writing
to the City Attorney. The City Attorney or his or her designee shall examine
the complaint and shall also review any signed written submissions by the
person(s) or entity(ies) that are directly involved. Pursuant to SDCL 1-25-2
(1), the complaint may be heard in executive session, and upon completion of
the review, the City Attorney shall submit in executive session an unbiased
fact-based investigative report to the City Council. All laws pertaining to
executive session shall apply, and the City Council shall not take any action
regarding any alleged violation of this Code in executive session. If, during
executive session, a public hearing is requested or desired by Council, the
scheduling of a hearing cannot be made during executive session but must be set
after resuming the public meeting.
         (a)   At least ten days prior to the scheduled executive session, any
affected elected official(s) shall be notified in writing of the complaint and
the scheduled date of the executive session and they shall be provided copies
of any materials reviewed by the City Attorney, along with the report produced
by the City Attorney, or his or her designee.
            1.   This provision of notice shall be required, except in cases in
which the affected elected official(s) has/have been accused of criminal
wrongdoing, or in cases in which notice to the affected elected official(s)
would jeopardize an on-going criminal investigation by any local, state, or
federal law enforcement agency.
            2.   The City Attorney shall make the determination as to whether
the above-enumerated notice exception applies and shall document in the file as
to the reason(s) thereof.
            3.   In cases of alleged criminal wrongdoing or on-going criminal
investigation, the subject of the complaint of violation of this Code shall be
suspended until such time as the City Attorney deems the criminal allegation
and/or criminal investigation has been resolved, either by prosecution, or a
determination that no criminal charge(s) are warranted against the affected
elected official(s).
         (b)   In the event the notice exception above does not apply, the
matter shall proceed, and any affected elected official(s) shall have an
opportunity to respond and be heard during the scheduled executive session and/
or the public hearing.
         (c)   The City Council will utilize the executive session to:
            1.   Become fully informed.
            2.   Discuss if there appears to be a violation of this Code.
            3.   Seek resolution without further action.
            4.   If necessary, discuss scheduling the matter for a public
hearing for final determination regarding whether a violation occurred; and
            5.   If necessary, discuss what sanction if any may be most
appropriate.
      (2)   Any elected official(s) affected by a complaint of violation of
this Code may be represented by legal counsel of his or her choosing at the
scheduled executive session and/or public hearing.
         (a)   The elected official's counsel present under this section is
only allowed to attend that portion of the executive session where the
complaint at issue under this Code is discussed.
         (b)   Counsel under this section means an attorney licensed to
practice in the State of South Dakota.
      (3)   Any elected official(s) accused of violating this Code may at any
time during the process, at his or her option, choose to have the matter heard
at a public hearing.
         (a)   Election of a public hearing must be made in writing to the City
Attorney.
         (b)   The public hearing shall take place at the next regularly
scheduled or special City Council meeting after written notice has been
received, provided however that written notice is received at least ten days
prior to the next regularly scheduled or special City Council meeting.
      (4)   At a public hearing, a concurrence of two-thirds of the elected
aldermen shall be required to determine that a violation of this Code has
occurred and likewise, a concurrence of two-thirds of the elected aldermen
shall be required to impose any sanctions.
   (I)   Section 9. Effect of Violation.
      (1)   Neither an alleged nor confirmed violation of this Code of Conduct
by itself provides a basis for challenging the validity of any final action,
enactment, ordinance, resolution, decision, determination, or recommendation of
the Governing Body.
      (2)   Under SDCL § 9-8-5, the Council is the judge of the election and
qualification of its members. The Council determines its rules of procedure,
and may punish its members for disorderly conduct, and, with the concurrence of
two-thirds of the aldermen may expel a member.
      (3)   Under SDCL § 9-8-4, the Mayor is a member of the Council and the
Mayor falls under the provisions of SDCL § 9-8-5 and this section and Code of
Conduct.
      (4)   Any alderman who is convicted of bribery shall vacate the position.
   (J)   Section 10. Definitions.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL as used in this Code of Conduct means any person who is
an official by virtue of an election. An elected official also includes persons
appointed to positions which are typically filled by an election.
      PUBLIC CENSURE as used in this Code of Conduct means an official public
condemnation  made by Resolution at a Council meeting denouncing an elected
official's conduct as a violation of this Code of Conduct and the reasons,
therefore.
      PUBLIC REPRIMAND as used in this Code of Conduct means an official public
declaration made by motion at a council meeting announcing that an elected
official's conduct was improper and describing the impropriety under this Code
of Conduct.
(Ord. 1228, passed 2-16-2021)
CHAPTER 31: WARD ELECTIONS
Section
   
31.01   City divided into four wards
   
31.02   Boundary of the first ward
   
31.03   Boundary of the second ward
   
31.04   Boundary of the third ward
   
31.05   Boundary of the fourth ward
§ 31.01 CITY DIVIDED INTO FOUR WARDS.
   The city is divided into four wards. The boundaries are set forth in the
following sections.
(Prior Code, § 8-1) (Ord. 1111, passed 12-27-2011)
§ 31.02 BOUNDARY OF THE FIRST WARD.
   The First Ward shall be the northern portion of the city, described as
follows: that area northwest of a point beginning at the city limits at the
eastern end of University Avenue running west to Fall River, following the
course of the river to Minnekahta Avenue and then west on Minnekahta Avenue to
Spring Avenue then southwesterly along Spring Avenue to the southeast corner of
Block Five of Minnekahta Addition, then along the south edge of Block Five of
Minnekahta Addition to North 23rd Street, then north on North 23rd Street to
Minnekahta Avenue, then northwesterly along Minnekahta Avenue through the
grounds of the South Dakota State Soldiers Home to the intersection of North
24th Avenue, then north on 24th Avenue to Doran Road, then west on Doran Road
to the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 8-2) (Ord. 1111, passed 12-27-2011; Ord. 1239, passed 1-17-2022)
§ 31.03 BOUNDARY OF THE SECOND WARD.
   The Second Ward shall be the southwestern portion of the city, described as
follows: that area southeast of a point beginning at the city limits at the
western end of University Avenue (also known as Highway 18) to South 24th
Street, then south on 24th Street to Albany Avenue, then east on Albany Avenue
to 16th Street, then north on 16th Street to University Avenue, then easterly
on University Avenue to South Garden Street, then south on South Garden Street
to South Dakota Street, then southerly on South Dakota Street to South 14th
Street, then southerly on South 14th Street to Galveston Avenue, then west on
Galveston Avenue to the Highway 18 truck by-pass.
(Prior Code, § 8-3) (Ord. 1111, passed 12-27-2011; Ord. 1239, passed 1-17-2022)
§ 31.04 BOUNDARY OF THE THIRD WARD.
   The Third Ward shall be the northwestern portion of the city, described as
follows: that area northeast of a point beginning at the city limits at the
western end of University Avenue (also known as Highway 18) to South 24th
Street, then south on 24th Street to Albany Avenue, then east on Albany Avenue
to 16th Street, then north on 16th Street to University Avenue, then easterly
on University Avenue to Fall River, following the course of the river to
Minnekahta Avenue and then west on Minnekahta Avenue to Spring Avenue then
southwesterly along Spring Avenue to the southeast corner of Block Five of
Minnekahta Addition, then along the south edge of Block Five of Minnekahta
Addition to North 23rd Street, then north on North 23rd Street to Minnekahta
Avenue, then northwesterly along Minnekahta Avenue through the grounds of the
South Dakota State Soldiers Home to the intersection of North 24th Avenue, then
north on 24th Avenue to Doran Road, then west on Doran Road to the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 8-4) (Ord. 1111, passed 12-27-2011; Ord. 1239, passed 1-17-2022)
§ 31.05 BOUNDARY OF THE FOURTH WARD.
   The Fourth Ward shall be the southeastern portion of the city, described as
follows: that area southwest of a point beginning at the city limits at the
eastern end of University Avenue west to South Garden Street, then south on
South Garden Street to South Dakota Street, then southerly on South Dakota
Street to South 14th Street, then southerly on South 14th Street to Galveston
Avenue, then west on Galveston Avenue to the Highway 18 truck by-pass.
(Prior Code, § 8-5) (Ord. 1111, passed 12-27-2011; Ord. 1239, passed 1-17-2022)
CHAPTER 32: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
32.01   Authority, title and purposes
   
32.02   Historic District
   
32.03   City Council powers
   
32.04   Historic Preservation Commission
   
32.05   Demolition or alteration of historic property
   
32.06   Historic District Commission
   
32.07   Exterior alterations
   
32.08   Certificate of appropriateness; administration
   
Appendix A:   Hot Springs Historic District Map
§ 32.01 AUTHORITY, TITLE AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   Authority. Pursuant to the authority granted by SDCL Chapter 1-19B,
the following rules and regulations pertaining to the creation, use and
maintenance of a historic preservation district, are hereby adopted by the City
Council. (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-1)
   (B)   Jurisdiction. These regulations shall govern any and all historic
preservation districts or sites established within the corporate limits of the
city. (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-2)
   (C)   Title. These regulations shall be known and may be cited as “The City
of Hot Springs’ Historic Preservation District Ordinance.”
   (D)   Purpose of creation of historical districts and sites. The historic
preservation districts and sites are established pursuant to a comprehensive
program developed for the preservation of the historical, archaeological,
architectural and cultural heritage of the city, and to promote the use and
conservation of such property for the education, inspiration, pleasure and
enrichment of the citizens of the city, the state and the United States.
   (E)   Purpose of creation of historical district regulations. To promote the
economic, cultural and general welfare of the people of the city and to insure
the harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development of the
municipality, the City Council deems it essential that the historic integrity
of the city be preserved and the heritage of the city be maintained and
protected in a sensitive and responsible manner. It is the purpose of this
chapter to ensure the preservation of those buildings and areas within the
city’s Historic District which possess cultural, historic or esthetic
significance to the district and to discourage alterations of existing
structures or the construction of new structures, which detract from the
esthetic harmony, style, form, color, proportion, texture or materials of the
district.
   (F)   Architecture of the District. The predominant architecture of the
buildings in the district contain various Victorian stylings that are often
referred to as Richardsony Romanesque Victorian. Generally, the buildings have
a Romanesque feeling with the majority being two storied and containing roman
arches or round headed windows. The sandstone utilized has a rough finish and
is always coursed on the front facade. First floors may contain cast iron or
steel I-beam lintels above large display windows; however, the main structural
support is provided by masonry or wooden beams. Front entrances on the facade
corner are common and are usually contained in a decorated pavilion that
employs an arched doorway. Capitals, initials and cornerstones are frequently
found and, in every case, have been hand carved. Local applications of Henry
Hobson Richardson’s designs can be found in the many-stepped gables and flat
lintels, although the basic character of the district is Victorian, the
architectural styling is more traditional in keeping with the tone of a
Romanesque revival.
   (G)   State regulation of historic properties. Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to prevent the regulation or acquisition of historic buildings,
structures, sites, areas or objects owned by the state or any of its political
subdivisions, agencies or instrumentalities.
(Prior Code, § 29-1) (Ord. 1243, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 32.02 HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description of District. 
      (1)   The city’s Historic Preservation District shall encompass the area
designated by the National Register of Historic Places.
      (2)   Other district or individual sites that are hereafter recorded in
the National Register of Historic Places, selected in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter or in accordance with the criteria adopted by the
State Board of Cultural Preservation pursuant to SDCL Chapter 1-19A may be
added to an existing district, to newly established districts, or may be
established as individual sites.
      (3)   The city’s Historic District shall include all properties and legal
descriptions contained within the boundaries of the map set forth in Appendix A
to this chapter.
   (B)   Regulations applying to historic sites. Any historic district, site or
place so designated by this chapter shall also be subject to the scope, rules,
regulations and uses permitted by the city zoning ordinance (
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances). The designated historic places or
sites shall be subject to all district regulations that apply to the zoning
district in which the historic place or site is located, in addition to all
applicable rules and regulations contained in this chapter.
   (C)   Signing of historic places and sites. All historic places, buildings
or sites so designated by this chapter shall display an appropriate sign or
marker, supplied by the owner, on or near the historic building or site
indicating that said building or site has been designated a historic property.
(Prior Code, § 29-2) (Ord. 1243, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 32.03 CITY COUNCIL POWERS.
   (A)   City Council’s power to protect historic properties. The City Council
is empowered to provide, by regulations, special conditions or restrictions,
for the protection, enhancement, preservation and use of designated historic
properties. Such regulations, special conditions or restrictions may include
appropriate and reasonable control of the use and/or appearance of adjacent or
associated private property within the public view, or both.
   (B)   Acquisition of historic easements. The city may acquire by purchase,
donation or condemnation, historic easements to any structure or site within
the city, having first determined that such acquisition will be in the public
interest. For the purpose of this chapter, HISTORIC EASEMENT is defined as any
easement, restriction, covenant or condition running with the land designated
to preserve, maintain or enhance all or part of existing places of historical,
architectural, archaeological or cultural significance.
   (C)   Transfer of development rights. The city may establish procedures
permitting the owners of designated historic properties to transfer the
development rights in such amounts and subject to such conditions as the
governing body may establish. For the purposes of this chapter, DEVELOPMENT
RIGHTS is defined as those rights granted under the city’s zoning ordinance
that regulate the permissible bulk and size of improvements erected upon the
designated historic site.
   (D)   Appropriations for acquisition, management and operating expenses. The
governing body of the city is empowered to make appropriations to the Historic
Preservation Commission in any amount that it may determine necessary for the
expenses of the operation of the Historic Preservation Commission, and may make
available any additional amounts necessary for the acquisition, restoration,
preservation, operation and management of historic properties. Said additional
monies may be secured by the city through the levy of annual special purpose
taxes and/or the issuance of revenue bonds. Said taxes and/or bonds shall have
first been approved by the qualified voters of the city.
   (E)   Title to property acquired. All lands, buildings, structures, sites,
areas or objects acquired in the name of the city may be maintained by or under
the supervision and control of the city.
   (F)   Exemption of historic properties; health and building codes. The City
Council, in order to promote the preservation and restoration of historic
properties within its jurisdiction, may exempt a historic property from the
application of such standards contained in the city or state health or building
codes, or both, as the City Council, upon recommendation of the Historic
Preservation Commission, shall determine would otherwise prevent or seriously
hinder the preservation or restoration of said historic property.
(Prior Code, § 29-3) (Ord. 1243, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 32.04 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   The purpose of the Historic Preservation Commission is to preserve the
quality of life and natural environment of the community and enhance the
economic vitality and diversity of the community through preservation and
restoration of historically and/or architecturally significant buildings and
sites.
   (A)   Authorization. The City Council hereby authorizes the establishment of
a Historic Preservation Commission, hereinafter referred to as “the
Commission,” to preserve, promote and develop the historical resources of the
city in accordance with the provisions of SDCL Chapter 1-19B.
   (B)   Composition of Historic Preservation Commission. The Commission shall
consist of not less than five nor more than ten members, who shall be appointed
by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. Commission members shall be
appointed with due regard to proper representation of such fields as history,
architecture, urban planning, archaeology and law. All Commission members shall
serve a term of three years, except that when the Commission is first
appointed, the lengths of the terms shall be varied in such a fashion as to
assure that no more than one-third of the terms expire in any given year.
Thereafter, appointment of each member shall be for a full three-year term,
unless the appointment is made to fill a vacancy. Said members shall be
eligible for reappointment as specified by the City Council. (SDCL Chapter 1-
19B-3) The Commission may employ such qualified staff personnel as it deems
necessary. (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-4)
   (C)   Historic Preservation Commission officers. The Commission shall elect
officers from its membership to consist of a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and
Secretary, who shall serve a term of one year. The Commission shall hold an
annual organization meeting for the purpose of electing officers.
   (D)   Historic Preservation Commission; rules and regulations. The Historic
Preservation Commission shall adopt bylaws and/or rules and regulations to
govern the official proceedings to include the recording of minutes of all
official proceedings of the Commission, provided that said rules and
regulations are not inconsistent with the provisions of SDCL Chapter 1-19B.
   (E)   Powers and duties of Historic Preservation Commission. The Historic
Preservation Commission established pursuant to division (A) above shall be
authorized to:
      (1)   Conduct a survey of local historic properties, complying with all
applicable standards and criteria of the statewide survey undertaken by the
cultural preservation office of the Department of Education and Cultural
Affairs; (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-8)
      (2)   Acquire fee and lesser interest in historic properties, including
adjacent or associated lands, by purchase, bequest or donation. All lands,
buildings or structures acquired by the Commission with funds other than those
appropriated by the city may be acquired and held in the name of the
Commission, the city or both; (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-14)
      (3)   Preserve, restore, maintain and operate historic properties under
the ownership or control of the Commission; (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-15)
      (4)   Lease, sell and otherwise transfer or dispose of historic
properties subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a
manner that will preserve the property; (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-17)
      (5)   Contract, with the approval of the City Council, with the state or
the federal government, or any agency of either, or with any other
organization; (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-12)
      (6)   Cooperate with the federal, state and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation; (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-11)
      (7)   Participate in the conduct of land use, urban renewal and other
planning processes undertaken by the city; (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-10)
      (8)   Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide information to the City
Council for the purposes of historic preservation; (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-19)
      (9)   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretative program on
historic properties within the city; and (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-18)
      (10)   Enter, solely in the performance of its official duties and only
at reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey thereof,
however, no member, employee or agent of the Commission may enter any private
building or structure without the express consent of the owner or occupant
thereof. (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-9)
   (F)   Notice to the tax assessor on historic properties. Upon the adoption
of this chapter or any adequate amendments designating historic properties
within the city, the Historic Preservation Commission shall give notice of such
designation to the tax assessor of the county. The designation and any recorded
restrictions upon the property limiting its use for preservation purposes shall
be considered by the tax assessor in appraising the property for tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 29-4) (Ord. 1243, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 32.05 DEMOLITION OR ALTERATION OF HISTORIC PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this chapter in general nor specifically in this section shall be
construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior feature
in or on a historic property that does not involve a change in design, material
or outer appearance thereof, nor to prevent the construction, reconstruction,
alteration, restoration, demolition or removal of any such feature when the
Building Inspector of the city certifies to the Commission that such action is
required for the public safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition.
   (A)   Notice by owner before demolition. No historic property designated by
this chapter or amendments thereto may be demolished, materially altered,
remodeled, relocated or put to a different use until the expiration of a 180-
day waiting period that commences with delivery to the Commission of written
notice of the owner’s proposed action. During this 180-day period, the
Commission may negotiate with the owner and with any other parties in an effort
to find a means of preserving the property. (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-27)
   (B)   Waiver of waiting period. The Commission shall have the discretionary
authority to waive any portion or all of the 180-day waiting period required by
division (A) above, provided that the alteration, remodeling, relocation or
change of use is undertaken subject to conditions agreed to by the Commission
ensuring the continued maintenance of the historical, architectural,
archaeological or cultural integrity and character of the property. (SDCL
Chapter 1-19B-29)
   (C)   Reduction in waiting period; extreme hardship. The Commission may
reduce the waiting period required by division (A) above, in any case where the
owner would suffer extreme hardship unless a reduction in the required period
was allowed. Mere loss of profit shall not be construed as extreme hardship for
the purposes of this section. (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-30)
(Prior Code, § 29-5) (Ord. 1243, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 32.06 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Historic District Commission shall administer historic
preservation activities under the provisions of this chapter and in compliance
with SDCL Chapter 1-19B. The Historic Preservation Commission assumes all
duties of the Historic District Commission.
   (B)   Composition of Historic District Commission. The Historic District
Commission, hereinafter cited as “District Commission,” shall consist of not
less than five nor more than ten members appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the City Council. The District Commission members shall be appointed with due
regard to proper representation of knowledge such as history, architecture,
architectural history, urban planning, archaeology and law. Where possible,
said members shall be selected from residents of the historic district or
districts. The appointments to membership on the District Commission shall be
for a period of three years; provided, however, that when the District
Commission is first appointed, the lengths of terms shall be varied in such a
fashion as to assure that at least one member’s term shall expire each year.
District Commission members shall be eligible for reappointment as specified by
the City Council.
   (C)   Historic District Commission officers. Historic Preservation
Commission officers shall assume the roles and duties of the Historic District
Commission officers.
   (D)   Historic District Commission; rules and regulations. The Historic
District Commission shall adopt bylaws and/or rules and regulations to govern
the official proceedings to include the recording of minutes of all official
proceedings of the Commission, provided that said rules and regulations are not
inconsistent with the provisions of SDCL Chapter 1-19B. The District Commission
may, subject to appropriations by the City Council, employ clerical and
technical assistants or consultants and may accept and expend gifts of money
for the express purpose of securing said services.
   (E)   Amendments of historic places or site to district. The historic
properties subject to the provisions of this chapter, may, from time to time,
be increased in number. It shall be the duty of the Historic District
Commission to study and report on such proposed amendments subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   The District Commission shall make an investigation of the
historical, architectural, archaeological and cultural significance of the
buildings, structures, sites or surroundings included in any proposed historic
district amendments. The District Commission’s investigation and recommendation
shall comply with the criteria adopted by the State Board of Cultural
Preservation pursuant to SDCL § 1-19A.
      (2)   The District Commission shall report its findings to the city’s
Planning Commission, the City Historic Preservation Commission and the State
Board of Cultural Preservation for their consideration and recommendations.
      (3)   Sixty days after the transmittal of its findings as specified in §
32.06(D)(1), the District Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
proposed amendments to the historic district. Notice of said hearing shall be
advertised pursuant to the manner of normal corporate legal publications and in
addition shall include written notice, postage prepaid, to the owners of all
properties to be included in any proposed amendment to the historic district.
      (4)   The District Commission shall submit a final report with its
recommendations and a draft of the proposed historic district amendments to the
City Council.
      (5)   The City Council shall act upon the proposed historic district
amendment.
      (6)   Upon the adoption of the amendment, the owners and occupants of
each designated historic property shall be given written notification of such
designation by the City Council. An official copy of the adoption shall be
provided to the County Register of Deeds to be registered as an addendum to the
original ordinance. A copy of the adoption shall be provided to the Historic
Preservation District Commission for inclusion in their records.
(Prior Code, § 29-6) (Ord. 1243, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 32.07 EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any exterior feature in a historic district which does
not involve a change in design, material, color or outer appearance thereof,
nor to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration or
demolition of any such feature which the City Building Inspector shall certify
is required for public safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition.
   (A)   Exterior feature defined. For the purposes of this chapter in general
and this section specifically, EXTERIOR FEATURES shall include the
architectural style, general design and general arrangement of the exterior of
the building or other structure, including the color, the kind and texture of
the building material and the type and style of all windows, doors, light
fixtures, signs, other appurtenant fixtures and natural features such as trees
and shrubbery. In the case of outdoor advertising signs, EXTERIOR FEATURES
shall be construed to mean the style, material, size and location of all such
signs.
   (B)   Certificate of appropriateness; exterior alterations. No exterior
portion of any building or other structure (including walls, fences, light
fixtures, steps and pavement, or other appurtenant features) nor above ground
utility structure nor any type of outdoor advertising sign shall be erected,
altered, restored, moved or demolished within any historic district until an
application for a certificate of appropriateness detailing exterior changes to
be made has been submitted to and approved by the Historic District Commission.
The Historic District Commission shall have a maximum of 30 days in which to
review an application for a certificate of appropriateness and to either
approve or deny said application. The city shall require such a certificate to
be issued by the Commission prior to the issuance of a building permit or other
permit granted for the purposes of constructing or altering structures. A
certificate of appropriateness is required, whether or not a building permit is
required to make the proposed exterior alterations.
   (C)   Interior arrangement; not subject to control. The Historic District
Commission shall not consider interior arrangement and shall take no action
pursuant to division (B) above, except for the purpose of preventing the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving or demolition of
buildings, structures, appurtenant fixtures, outdoor advertising signs or
natural features in the designated historical districts which would be
incongruous with the historical, architectural, archaeological or cultural
aspects of the district.
(Prior Code, § 29-7)
§ 32.08 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS; ADMINISTRATION.
   No exterior changes to any structure within a designated historic district
shall be permitted until such time as the property owner shall have obtained a
certificate of appropriateness from the Historic District Commission.
Certificates of appropriateness shall be issued or denied pursuant to the
provisions of this section.
   (A)   Notice and hearing prior to issuance. Prior to the issuance or denial
of a certificate of appropriateness, the District Commission shall take such
action as may reasonably be required to inform the owners of any property
likely to be materially affected by application, and shall give the applicant
and such owners an opportunity to be heard. In cases where the Commission deems
it necessary, it may hold a public hearing concerning the application.
   (B)   Issuance of certificate; appropriate change. Should the District
Commission determine that the proposed construction, reconstruction,
alteration, moving or demolition is appropriate, it shall forthwith approve
such application and shall issue to the applicant a certificate of
appropriateness.
   (C)   Denial of certificate. If the District Commission determines that a
certificate of appropriateness should not be issued, it shall place upon its
records, the reasons for such determination and shall forthwith notify the
applicant of such determination, furnishing him or her an attested copy of its
reasons thereof and its recommendations, if any, as appearing in the records of
said Commission.
   (D)   Appeal of certificate denial. Any applicant aggrieved by a
determination of the Commission may appeal to the circuit court having
jurisdiction in the city.
   (E)   Certificate of appropriateness required; change in use. No change in
the use of any structure or property within a designated historic district
shall be permitted until an application for a certificate of appropriateness
has been submitted to and approved by the Historic District Commission. For the
purposes of this section, the term USE shall be defined to mean the specific
purpose for which land and/or a structure is designed, arranged, intended to be
used, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. The city shall
require said certificate to be issued by the Commission prior to the approval
of any change of zoning classification within the designated historic district
or districts.
   (F)   Certificate issued; extreme hardship. The Historic District Commission
may approve an application for a certificate of appropriateness in any case
where the owner would suffer extreme hardship, not including loss of profit,
unless the certificate of appropriateness be issued forthwith.
   (G)   Deterioration by neglect. As determined by the City of Hot Springs
Building Inspection Department (SDCL Chapter 1-19B-52) in accordance with this
chapter, any property owner permitting deterioration by willful neglect of any
designated historic property or any property within an established historic
district shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 (SDCL 22-6-2). Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder as a Class 2 misdemeanor.
   (H)   Conflicts with other laws. In the interpretation and application of
the provisions of this chapter, these provisions shall be held to be minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, morals, safety and
the general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance
with the requirements of other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or
ordinances, the most restrictive, or the one imposing the higher standards,
shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 29-8) (Ord. 1243, passed 11-21-2022)
APPENDIX A: HOT SPRINGS HISTORIC DISTRICT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/05a06874a9cda9f4bbceb7edc97e6ccba6b7f492/
IMAGES/0-0-0-975.png]
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT; PRISONERS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Office of Chief of Police
   
33.02   General powers and duties of Chief of Police
   
33.03   Impersonating an officer
   
33.04   Resisting an officer
   
33.05   (Reserved)
   
33.06   Assisting escape of prisoners
Police Reserve Force
   
33.20   Creation of reserve police force
   
33.21   Commanding officer of reserve police force
   
33.22   Police powers and duties of members of reserve police force
   
33.23   Rules and regulations of reserve police force
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 OFFICE OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The office of Chief of Police, as heretofore created, is hereby continued.
(Prior Code, § 17-1)
§ 33.02 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have such powers and perform such duties as are
prescribed by state law and city ordinances. The Chief of Police and all police
officers shall also abide by the rules and regulations as set forth in the
police manual and shall perform such other duties as are required by the Mayor
and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 17-2)
§ 33.03 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not duly authorized to exercise the
duties conferred by law and ordinance upon police officers of the city, to wear
a police officer’s badge or insignia, or represent himself or herself as being
a police officer or peace officer, or attempt to exercise any of the duties of
a police officer or peace officer in the city.
(Prior Code, § 17-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.04 RESISTING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in this city to resist or obstruct any
police officer in the performance of any official duty, or to resist or prevent
or attempt to prevent any police or peace officer from making an arrest or in
quelling a disturbance, or in any way aid or assist any person to resist or
escape from any such officer, or assist any person in escape from any lawful
confinement in said city.
(Prior Code, § 17-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.05 (RESERVED).
§ 33.06 ASSISTING ESCAPE OF PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to assist any person in
the custody of any police officer to escape from such police officer, or to
assist any person to escape from any lawful confinement in the city.
(Prior Code, § 17-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
POLICE RESERVE FORCE
§ 33.20 CREATION OF RESERVE POLICE FORCE.
   There is hereby created within the Police Department of the city, a reserve
police force, the members of which shall be appointed by the Mayor upon the
recommendation of the Chief of Police. The members of the reserve police force
shall serve on a voluntary basis without pay and within the corporate limits of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 17-19)
§ 33.21 COMMANDING OFFICER OF RESERVE POLICE FORCE.
   The Chief of Police shall be the commanding officer of the reserve police
force and shall have control of the assignment, training, stationing and
direction in work of the members thereof.
(Prior Code, § 17-20)
§ 33.22 POLICE POWERS AND DUTIES OF MEMBERS OF RESERVE POLICE FORCE.
   Members of the reserve police force shall have all police powers, but shall
perform only such duties as are assigned by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 17-21)
§ 33.23 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF RESERVE POLICE FORCE.
   The Chief of Police shall, with the approval of the Mayor, prescribe rules
and regulations for the conduct and control of the reserve police force.
(Prior Code, § 17-22)
CHAPTER 34: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
34.01   Imposition of municipal sales and service tax
   
34.02   Collection of municipal sales and service tax
   
34.03   Exemption from municipal sales and service tax
   
34.04   Imposition of municipal use tax
   
34.05   Interpretation
   
34.06   Purpose for additional municipal sales and service tax and use tax
   
34.07   Effective date and enactment of tax
   
34.08   Collection
   
34.09   Exemptions from taxation
   
34.10   Use tax
   
34.11   Termination and usage
   
34.12   Interpretation
   
34.13   Additional municipal non-ad valorem tax
   
34.14   Code of conduct regarding federal grant funds
 
   
34.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Economic development provisions, see
Chapter 35
   Fine schedule, see
Chapter 36
§ 34.01 IMPOSITION OF MUNICIPAL SALES AND SERVICE TAX.
   For the purpose of providing additional needed revenue for the city from and
after October 1, 1971, pursuant to the powers granted to the municipality by
the state by SDCL Chapter 10-52 entitled Uniform Non-Ad Valorem Tax Law, and
acts amendatory thereto, there is hereby imposed a municipal retail
occupational sales and service tax upon the privilege of engaging in business a
tax of 1% on the gross receipts of all persons engaged in business within the
jurisdiction of the city, who are subject to the South Dakota Retail
Occupational Sales and Service Tax, SDCL Chapter 10-45 and acts amendatory
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 20-1)
§ 34.02 COLLECTION OF MUNICIPAL SALES AND SERVICE TAX.
   The municipal sales and service tax herein levied shall be collected by the
State Department of Revenue in accordance with the same rules and regulations
as the Commissioner of Revenue of the state shall lawfully prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 20-2)
§ 34.03 EXEMPTION FROM MUNICIPAL SALES AND SERVICE TAX.
   In addition to gross receipts exempted by state law and therefore from tax
imposed hereunder, there are hereby specifically exempted from the provisions
of this chapter and from computation of the amount of tax imposed by it, the
following:
   (A)   Farm machinery and irrigation equipment used exclusively for
agricultural purposes;
   (B)   Gross receipts from vending machines, including, but not limited to,
pinball machines, phonographs and all other mechanical devices for amusement;
and
   (C)   Sales of tangible personal property and taxable services to purchasers
residing or doing business outside the city provided that delivery is made to
such purchaser outside the city by common carrier or by the conveyance of the
seller or by the United States mail, and provided that the articles so
purchased and delivered are used outside the city. Receipts from sales to a
construction company of materials and supplies which are incorporated into and
become part of projects outside the city limits are exempt from municipal sales
and use tax, even if delivery is made to a truck of the construction company
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-3)
§ 34.04 IMPOSITION OF MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   In addition, there is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of the
use, storage and consumption within the jurisdiction of the city of tangible
personal property purchased from and after October 1, 1971, at the same rate as
the municipal sales and service tax upon all transactions for use, storage and
consumption which are subject to the South Dakota Use Tax Act, SDCL Chapter 10-
46, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 20-4)
§ 34.05 INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of the taxes levied herein that the same
shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner as all sections of the
State Retail Occupational Sales and Service Act, SDCL Chapter 10-45 and acts
amendatory thereto and the State Use Tax, SDCL Chapter 10-46 and acts
amendatory thereto, and that this shall be considered a similar tax except for
the rate thereof to that tax.
(Prior Code, § 20-5)
§ 34.06 PURPOSE FOR ADDITIONAL MUNICIPAL SALES AND SERVICE TAX AND USE TAX.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide additional needed revenue for the
city, for the purpose of capital improvement, land acquisition and debt
retirement by imposing an additional municipal retail sales and use tax
pursuant to the powers granted to the municipality by the state by SDCL Chapter
10-52 entitled Municipal Non-Ad Valorem Tax Law, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 20-7)
§ 34.07 EFFECTIVE DATE AND ENACTMENT OF TAX.
   From and after the first day of January 2005, there is hereby imposed as a
municipal retail occupational sales and service tax upon the privilege of
engaging in business a tax measured by 2% on the gross receipts of all persons
engaged in business within the jurisdiction of the municipality of the city,
who are subject to the State Retail Occupational Sales and Service Tax, SDCL
Chapter 10-45 and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 20-8) (Ord. 999, passed 8-26-2003; Ord. 1007, passed 9-14-2004;
Ord. 1021, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 34.08 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL Chapter 10-52
and acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue in accordance with the same rules and regulations applicable to the
state sales tax and under such additional rules and regulations as the
Secretary of Revenue of the state shall lawfully prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 20-9)
§ 34.09 EXEMPTIONS FROM TAXATION.
   In addition to gross receipts exempted by state law and therefore from tax
imposed hereunder, there are hereby specifically exempted from the provisions
of this chapter and from computation of the amount of tax imposed by it, the
following:
   (A)   Parts or repairs on machinery or equipment, which are clearly
identifiable as used primarily for agricultural purposes as taxed pursuant to
SDCL § 10-45-3.4;
   (B)   Farm machinery or equipment taxed pursuant to SDCL § 10-45-3.5;
   (C)   Agricultural animal health products and medicines; and
   (D)   Gross receipts from selling food, as defined by the Food Stamp Act of
1977 (Pub. L. No. 95-113, September 29, 1977), 7 U.S.C. § 2012(k), as amended
through January 1, 1983, in rules promulgated pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 20-10)
§ 34.10 USE TAX.
   In addition, there is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of the
use, storage and consumption within the jurisdiction of the city of tangible
personal property purchased from and after the effective date of this chapter,
at the same rate as the additional municipal sales and service tax upon all
transactions for use, storage and consumption which are subject to the State
Use Tax Act, SDCL Chapter 10-46, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 20-11)
§ 34.11 TERMINATION AND USAGE.
   One-half of the additional municipal sales and service tax and use tax
imposed by §
34.07, shall terminate on January 1, 2007. The other one-half of said
additional tax shall be used from and after the effective date of this act
solely for street capital improvements within the city, but shall not be used
for equipment purchases for said improvements.
(Prior Code, § 20-12)
§ 34.12 INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this chapter and taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the State Retail Occupational Sales and Service Act, SDCL
Chapter 10-45 and acts amendatory thereto, and the State Use Tax, SDCL Chapter
10-46 and acts amendatory thereto, and that this shall be considered a similar
tax except for the rate thereof to that tax.
(Prior Code, § 20-13)
§ 34.13 ADDITIONAL MUNICIPAL NON-AD VALOREM TAX.
   (A)   The said city shall, and does hereby, pursuant to the provisions of
SDCL Chapter 10-52A, impose an additional municipal non-ad valorem tax at the
rate of 1% upon the gross receipts of all hotel, motel, campsites or other
lodging accommodations within the city, and upon the sale of alcoholic
beverages as defined in SDCL § 35-1-1; and the gross sales of all
establishments where the public is invited to eat, dine or purchase and carry
out prepared food for immediate consumption; and amusement fees and ticket
sales of places of amusement.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of SDCL Chapter 10-52A, said funds shall be
used for the purpose of the promotion and advertising of the city and its
facilities, attractions and activities, including the maintenance, staffing and
operation of the city’s Chamber of Commerce and for the purpose of land
acquisition, architectural fees, construction costs, payments for the civic
center, auditorium or athletic facility buildings, including maintenance,
staffing and operation of such facilities and the promotion and advertising of
the city, its facilities, attractions and activities.
(Prior Code, § 20-15) (Ord. 1040, passed 9-26-2006)
§ 34.14 CODE OF CONDUCT REGARDING FEDERAL GRANT FUNDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this code of conduct is to ensure the
efficient, fair and professional administration of federal grant funds in
compliance with federal Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-102,
Attachment 0, Paragraph 7, and other applicable federal and state standards,
regulations and laws.
   (B)   Application. This code of conduct applies to all officers, employees
or agents of the city engaged in the award or administration of contracts
supported by federal grant funds.
   (C)   Requirements. 
      (1)   No officer, employee or agent of the city shall participate in the
selection, award or administration of a contract supported by federal grant
funds if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved.
      (2)   Such a conflict would arise when:
         (a)   The employee, officer or agent;
         (b)   Any member of his or her immediate family;
         (c)   His or her partner; or
         (d)   An organization which employs, or is about to employ any of the
above; has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for award.
      (3)   The city’s officers, employees or agents shall neither solicit nor
accept gratuities, favors or anything of monetary value from contractors,
potential contractors or subcontractors.
   (D)   Remedies. To the extent permitted by federal, state or local laws or
regulations, violation of these standards may cause penalties, sanctions or
other disciplinary actions to be taken against the city’s officers, employees
or agents, or the contractors, potential contractors, subcontractors or their
agents.
(Prior Code, § 20-30)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
herein and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be fined in an amount as set by the City Council from time to
time. In addition, all such collection remedies authorized by SDCL Chapter 10-
45, and acts amendatory thereto, and SDCL Chapter 10-46, and acts amendatory
thereto, are hereby authorized for the collection of these excise taxes by the
Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 20-6)
   (C)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
34.10 through
34.12 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be fined in an amount as set by the City Council from time to
time. In addition, all such collection remedies authorized by SDCL Chapter 10-
45, and acts amendatory thereto, and SDCL Chapter 10-46, and acts amendatory
thereto, and hereby authorized for the collection of these excise taxes by the
Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 20-14)
CHAPTER 35: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT
Section
Economic Development Districts
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Designated Economic Development Districts (EDD)
Business Improvement District
   
35.30   Establishment
   
35.31   Purpose
   
35.32   Boundaries
   
35.33   Board establishment
   
35.34   Powers of the Board
   
35.35   Occupational tax imposed
   
35.36   Duty to account for complimentary rooms
   
35.37   Computation and collection of occupational tax
   
35.38   Statement required along with occupational tax payment
   
35.39   Fees for failure to pay occupational tax
   
35.40   Fees for delinquent assessments
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the creation of this subchapter is to identify and designate
certain areas within the city as Economic Development Districts (EDD) or
Residential Development Districts (RDD) in order to stimulate economic and
residential growth in the city through tax incentives. These designated areas
shall meet the criteria of SDCL § 11-7-3 and of an urban renewal area, as per
County Resolution #2011-4.
(Prior Code, § 25-A-02) (Ord. 1104, passed 3-29-2011)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. Comprise of commercially zoned districts
within the city, also known as a REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT as defined in SDCL § 11-
7-5.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. Comprise of residentially zoned districts
within the city, also known as a REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT as defined in SDCL § 11-
7-5.
(Prior Code, § 25-A-03) (Ord. 1104, passed 3-29-2011)
§ 35.03 DESIGNATED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS (EDD).
   (A)   The following legal descriptions are intended to delineate the areas
designated for the City Economic Development District as referenced in map #
HS-EDD-2011-01. This area is intended to comprise of that portion of the
General Commercial District which lies within the Historic Preservation
District along River Street, West River Street and Chicago Street from Albany
Avenue north to the Evans Plunge Pump Station to also include all of Evans
Addition which contains Evans Plunge and also includes all of Glattly Addition
across the street from the county courthouse and extends up Minnekahta Avenue
to Happy Hollow Street.
   (B)   The Economic Development District is legally described as:
      (1)   All of Evans Addition;
      (2)   All of Glattly Addition;
      (3)   All of Central Addition;
      (4)   All of Sulphur Springs Second Addition;
      (5)   Lot 7, Revised Villa Theresa Addition;
      (6)   Lots 1 through 10, Block one; and Lots 1 through 28, Block 23, all
in Minnekahta Addition;
      (7)   All of blocks 31 through 34, all in original town;
      (8)   Lots 1 through 5 and lots 13 through 24, Block 1; Lots 13 through
24, Block 2; Lots 1 through 12, Block 8; Lots 1 through 12, Block 9; all of
Block 19; all of Block 21; all of Block 43; all of Block 22; and all of Block
23; all in original town; and
      (9)   All of Block 56 and all of Block 57, Sulphur Springs Addition, all
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 25-A-04) (Ord. 1104, passed 3-29-2011)
BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
§ 35.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to SDCL § 9-55, Business Improvement District #1 of the city
was created by a resolution of intent by the City Council on May 2, 2011 and a
public hearing on the creation of the District was held on June 20, 2011.
   (B)   The City Council approved the creation of the District and the final
ordinance was published on July 11, 2011 after the first and second reading.
(Ord. 1185, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 35.31 PURPOSE.
   Business Improvement District # 1 is created for the purpose of collecting
funds to promote and market all of the District and to provide resources for
future events, activities, beautification efforts, facilities and improvements
within the Business District, along with the costs of marketing, acquisition,
construction, maintenance, operation and repair of such improvements,
facilities or activities.
(Ord. 1185, passed 12-4-2017; Ord. 1224, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 35.32 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the District shall be within the following zoning
districts within the municipality of Hot Springs: Residential (R), General
Commercial (GC), Highway Service (HS), Mixed Use District (MXD-I) and Golf
Course Commercial (GCC) and shall include all commercial lodging
establishments, including bed and breakfasts, located within these zoning
districts.
(Ord. 1185, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 35.33 BOARD ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby continued, as has been previously established pursuant to
SDCL Chapter 9-55 and the municipality Res. #2011-16, a Business Improvement
District #1 Board.
   (A)   Composition.
      (1)   Voting members. The Board shall consist of a minimum of five voting
members, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council. Persons who are eligible to be members of the Board include the
following:
         (a)   An owner of property located in the District;
         (b)   An owner of a business located in the District; or
         (c)   An operator of a business located in the District.
      (2)   Entity may designate. For purposes of this section, if the business
or property is owned or operated by a legal entity and not a natural person,
such entity may designate an officer, director, member, manager, partner or
employee as its representative for purposes of Board membership.
   (B)   Terms. All voting members of the Board shall be appointed to serve a
three-year term. A member of the Board may serve more than one term. Terms
shall be staggered so that no more than three voting members’ terms end at the
same time.
   (C)   Vacancies. The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall
fill any vacancy of voting members for the remainder of the term vacated.
   (D)   Officers. The Board shall annually select from its voting members a
Chair, Vice Chair and Secretary.
   (E)   Compensation. All members of the Board shall serve as such without
compensation, except for actual expenses, which shall be subject to approval of
the City Council.
(Ord. 1185, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 35.34 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   The Business Improvement District #1 Board shall oversee the administration
of the District and the establishment of programs within the purposes of the
BID contained herein. The Board will also oversee the expenditure of BID funds
on marketing and promotion upon the approval by the City Council. The Board
does not have the power to enter into any contracts in relation to the BID
without prior approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 1185, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 35.35 OCCUPATIONAL TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   To fund the activities of the BID, an occupational tax in the amount
of $2 per night shall be imposed upon transient guests, based upon rooms rented
by any of the hotels, motels or lodging establishments within the District.
   (B)   A TRANSIENT GUEST is defined as any person paying a rental rate for a
room based on a nightly, weekly or other basis that is less than 28 consecutive
days. This occupation tax shall be fair, equitable and uniform as to class.
Organizations exempt from sales tax shall not be exempt from the occupational
tax. No occupational tax may be imposed on any transient guest who has been
offered a room by a lodging establishment on a complimentary basis, whereby no
fee or rent is charged for such room. This tax rate shall be subject to
establishment and adjustment by the City Council, by resolution, in accordance
with SDCL § 9-55-16.
(Ord. 1185, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 35.36 DUTY TO ACCOUNT FOR COMPLIMENTARY ROOMS.
   Each hotel, motel or lodging establishment shall account for complimentary
rooms, which are also subject to audit by the City Finance Officer, with such
records to show the basis for offering such room on a complimentary basis.
(Ord. 1185, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 35.37 COMPUTATION AND COLLECTION OF OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   (A)   The City Finance Officer is authorized to collect the tax in
accordance with this chapter. The occupational tax assessed pursuant to the
terms of this chapter shall be due to the Office of the City Finance Officer by
the twenty-fifth day of each month for the previous calendar month’s tax
collections.
   (B)   The City Finance Officer, or any person or firm contracted by the City
Finance Officer, shall be entitled to audit the books, ledgers or franchise
reports of any hotel, motel or lodging establishment subject to the terms of
this chapter, including the right to inspect daily reports of such hotels and
motels so as to ensure that the occupancy tax assessed by this chapter is being
properly remitted to the city. The City Finance Officer shall be entitled to
seek injunctive relief against any hotel, motel or lodging establishment that
does not remit the proper amount of tax monies when due, which relief may be in
the form of an action requiring the offending hotel or motel owner to allow
entry upon their property and access to their records, computers or books so as
to verify that the hotel, motel or lodging establishment is remitting all
monies it collects pursuant to this chapter and the laws of the state.
   (C)   Each hotel, motel or lodging establishment subject to this chapter
shall keep accurate records of amounts collected from transient guests for
review by the City Finance Officer or his or her designee, pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 1185, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 35.38 STATEMENT REQUIRED ALONG WITH OCCUPATIONAL TAX PAYMENT.
   Any business governed by this chapter shall sign a sworn statement, to be
submitted along with the remittance of any tax imposed by this chapter, stating
as follows:
I declare, under penalty of perjury, that the above accounting of rooms rented
is accurate and the tax payment made herein is accurate to the best of my
knowledge according to my business records.
Signed _______________      Dated _______________
Title _____________________________________________
(Ord. 1185, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 35.39 FEES FOR FAILURE TO PAY OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   (A)   The occupational tax assessed pursuant to the terms of this chapter
shall be due to the office of the City Finance Officer by the twenty-fifth day
of each month for the previous calendar month’s tax collections. Should the
twenty-fifth day of the month fall on a Saturday or a Friday that is a holiday
observed by the city, the occupancy tax remittances shall be due on the last
business day immediately preceding the twenty-fifth. Should the twenty-fifth
day of the month fall on a Sunday or Monday that is a holiday observed by the
city, the occupancy tax remittances shall be due on the first business day
immediately following the twenty-fifth.
   (B)   All amounts that are not received on or before the due date will be
charged a late fee in an amount as set by the City Council from time to time in
addition to the total amount due. Further, the city shall have the ability to
deny the issuance of any permits or licenses, or any renewals thereof, to any
business or premises that fails to conform to the provisions of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, building permits, malt beverage licenses and
liquor licenses.
   (C)   Nothing within the body of this chapter shall be construed as limiting
any other rights the city has, or may pursue, in seeking collection of monies
received but not paid under the terms of this chapter. In the event that this
tax becomes subject to supervision by the state through the state’s Department
of Revenue, any rights the city has herein shall be deemed cumulative to any
powers that inure to the benefit of the state.
(Ord. 1185, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 35.40 FEES FOR DELINQUENT ASSESSMENTS.
   In the event of any civil or criminal action being filed seeking collection
of any delinquent assessments, the offending hotel, motel or lodging
establishment shall be responsible for and pay all attorney’s fees and costs
incurred by the city in seeking payment under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 1185, passed 12-4-2017)
CHAPTER 36: FINE AND BOND SCHEDULE
Section
   
36.01   Fine and bond schedule
§ 36.01 FINE AND BOND SCHEDULE.
Municipal Code Violation Fine Costs Total & Bond
Municipal Code Violation                             Fine   Costs Total & Bond
111.01(B)(1)   Sale or transport alcohol in          $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               violation of ordinances
111.02(B)(2)   Sale of alcohol without a license     $54    $66   $120/P.R.
111.02(B)(3)   Bottle clubs prohibited               $54    $66   $120/P.R.
111.02(B)(4)   Consumption of alcohol in public      $54    $66   $120/P.R.
111.02(B)(5)   Exceeding hours of authorized         $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               consumption
111.02(B)(6)   Open container                        $54    $66   $120/P.R.
93.06          Fireworks                             $54    $66   $120/P.R.
93.06(B)       Prohibited use of fireworks           $500   $66   $566/P.R.
130.02         Begging or solicitation               $54    $66   $120/P.R.
130.03         Discharging weapons                   $54    $66   $120/P.R.
130.04         Interference with barricades and      $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               fences
130.06         Curfew violation                      $54    $66   $120/P.R.
130.07         Abandoned vehicle or property         $54    $66   $120/P.R.
92.04          Littering in park or recreation area  $54    $66   $120/P.R.
92.05          Discharging weapon in park or         $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation area
92.06          Throwing stone or missile in park or  $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation area
92.07          Improper use of sound producing       $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               device in park or recreation area
92.08          Improper personal conduct in park or  $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation area
92.09          Build or maintain fire in park or     $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation area
               Damage or removal of property or
92.10          natural features in park or           $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation area
92.11          Building sign or barrier in park or   $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation area
               Consumption of distilled spirits or
92.12          use of glass containers in park or    $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation area
92.13          Operating vehicle in park or          $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation area
               Parking in park or recreation area
92.14          without utilizing the park or         $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation facility
               Selling or trading merchandise or
92.15          operating concession in park or       $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation area
92.16          Enter or remain in park or recreation $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               area outside hours of operation
92.17          Animals restricted                    $54    $66   $120/P.R.
92.18          Pyrotechnics                          $54    $66   $120/P.R.
92.19          Launching hot air balloon or hobby    $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               rocket in park or recreation area
92.20          Entering locked or closed park or     $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation area
92.21          Camping in park or recreation area    $54    $66   $120/P.R.
92.22          Tobacco use in prohibited areas       $54    $66   $120/P.R.
92.23          Hunting or trapping in park or        $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               recreation area
70.03(B)       Disobeying order of law enforcement   $54    $66   $120/P.R.
70.03(D)       Failure to yield to emergency vehicle $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               Failure to obey traffic control
70.04(A)       devices (traffic lights, stop signs   $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               and the like)
70.04(C)       Unauthorized traffic sign             $54    $66   $120/P.R.
70.04(D)       Removal of traffic sign               $54    $66   $120/P.R.
70.05          Driving on play streets               $54    $66   $120/P.R.
70.05          Speeding (1-5 mph over)               $19    $66   $85/P.R.
70.05          Speeding (6-10 mph over)              $39    $66   $105/P.R.
70.05          Speeding (11-15 mph over)             $59    $66   $125/P.R.
70.06(A) and   Turn or signage violation             $54    $66   $120/P.R.
(C)
70.06(D)       Illegal U-turn                        $54    $66   $120/P.R.
70.06(F)       Failure to yield in alley             $54    $66   $120/P.R.
70.06(G)       Failure to stop when traffic          $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               obstructed
70.07(A)       Driving through procession            $54    $66   $120/P.R.
70.07(B)       Driving or parking on sidewalk        $54    $66   $120/P.R.
70.07(C)       Violation of pedestrian’s right-of- $54    $66   $120/P.R.
               way
70.08(A)
70.08(B)
70.08(C)        
70.08(D)       Parking violation                     $31.50 $66   $97.50/P.R.
70.08(E)
70.08(F)
70.09(A)
70.12(A)       Helmet for minor                      $54    $66   $120/P.R.
 
   (A)   Any city ordinance not itemized above shall be treated in the same
manner as a Class 2 misdemeanor, except that no violation of a city ordinance
shall contemplate the possibility of a jail sentence.
   (B)   The fines above itemized are only binding upon cases where a power of
attorney is issued by the officer and/or when the appearance is made before a
lay magistrate. State statutes provide that magistrate judges or circuit judges
are not bound by this schedule.
   (C)   This schedule shall be effective, July 7, 2017 and shall continue in
effect until further order of the court.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018; Ord. 1211, passed 4-20-2020; Ord. 1213, passed 5-
18-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SOLID WASTE
         
51.   WATER
         
52.   WASTEWATER AND STORM SEWER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Municipal solid waste
   
50.03   Vehicles for the collection and hauling of municipal solid waste
   
50.04   Municipal solid waste charges and fees
   
50.05   Municipal solid waste haulers; license required
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASBESTOS MATERIAL, REGULATED. Must contain greater than 1% asbestos by
weight and is:
      (1)   Friable asbestos material;
      (2)   Category I non-friable ACM that has become friable;
      (3)   Category I non-friable ACM that will be or has been subjected to
sanding, grinding, cutting or abrading; or
      (4)   Category II non-friable ACM that has a high probability of becoming
or has become crumbled, pulverized or reduced to powder by the forces expected
to act on the material in the course of demolition or renovation operations.
   BULKY WASTE. Metal, upholstered furniture, appliances or “white goods,”
tires, automobile frames or parts, mattresses and box springs, and other bulky
materials.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE (CDW). Material waste, grubbing waste and
rubble from construction, remodeling, repair or demolition of buildings,
bridges and other structures, to include lumber, plaster, shingles (wood or
asphalt), tar paper and other non-hazardous waste ordinarily associated with
construction or demolition. CDW will also include rubble which includes earth
or dirt, brick, cement blocks, broken asphalt or concrete, sand or gravel, and
rocks.
   CONTAINER, MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. A solid waste container that is of the
size and type approved and provided by the city or the municipal solid waste
collector, and is constructed to prevent the blowing or unintentional discharge
of garbage or trash.
   GREEN WASTE. Large brush, stumps and large dead trees.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE.  
      (1)   Includes material containing pathogens of sufficient virulence and
quantity that exposure to such material by a susceptible host could result in
an infectious disease. Such materials include, but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Isolation waste, material generated by contact with hospitalized
patients who are isolated to protect others from communicable diseases as
defined by the centers for disease control;
         (b)   Cultures and stocks of infectious agents and associated
biologicals, specimen cultures from medical or pathological laboratories,
cultures and stocks of infectious agents from research or industrial
laboratories, waste from the production of biologicals, and discarded live and
attenuated vaccines, together with any culture dishes and devices used to
transfer, inoculate or mix cultures or other such agents;
         (c)   Human blood and blood products, all waste human blood and blood
products such as serum, plasma and other blood components;
         (d)   Pathological waste consisting of tissue, organs, body parts or
body fluids that are removed during surgery or autopsy;
         (e)   Contaminated sharps, including hypodermic needles, syringes,
Pasteur pipettes, broken glass, scalpel blades and other similar items which
have come in contact with infectious agents during use in patient care, medical
research or pathological investigations;
         (f)   Contaminated animal carcasses, body parts and bedding, including
all such materials exposed to pathogens in research and the production of
biologicals; and
         (g)   Miscellaneous contaminated waste including materials
contaminated by contact with pathogens during surgery, autopsy, laboratory
testing or experimentation, materials which were in contact with the blood of
patients, and all other materials contaminated by contact with pathogens.
      (2)   Exception: INFECTIOUS WASTE shall not include material which has
been rendered noninfectious by autoclaving, incineration or other processes
recognized and accepted by the medical profession, or material determined to be
not accepted by the medical profession, or material determined to be not
infectious by a responsible, authorized licensed practitioner at the facility
at which such wastes were generated, provided, however, that the City Council
shall have final authority, with sound discretion, to determine what is and
what is not infectious waste.
   LIQUID WASTE. Liquids or waste containing free moisture.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE and MOBILE HOME PARK PATRON. Includes duplexes, four-
plexes, apartment buildings with less than 50 residential units located in one
building, and any structure or series of structures that contain multiple
residential units that are served by a common water meter. Apartment buildings
with more than 50 residential units in a single building shall be considered as
“commercial” for purposes of this contract. Mobile home parks are defined as
two or more mobile homes collectively served by a common water meter.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE (MSW). The non-hazardous waste normally generated in
households or commercial retail businesses, but excludes bulky waste, green
waste, construction and demolition wastes, automobiles, ashes, street sweepings
and sewage sludge. The term GARBAGE may be used interchangeably with MSW and
shall carry the same definition as MSW. MSW will include kitchen refuse, cans,
glass bottles or jars, paper, cardboard and other materials ordinarily
generated in households and retail businesses.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE HAULER. Any person, firm, company or corporation that
is in the business of contracting for the picking up and disposal of municipal
solid waste as defined in this chapter.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION FACILITY. As permitted by the State
Department of Environment and Natural Resources, also referred to as the MRF
(MUNICIPAL RECOVERY FACILITY).
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PATRON. A person or persons residing as a single
family unit in a single-family dwelling unit where each individual dwelling
unit is serviced by an individual city water meter.
   SPECIAL WASTES. Includes all hazardous wastes, regulated asbestos materials,
liquid wastes, infectious wastes and other wastes requiring special handling
under any state, federal or city law or regulations.
   TOXIC WASTE. Any waste which is defined as toxic by state, federal or local
law or regulation, or which is deemed by the City Council as posing a toxic
hazard to the landfill, human health or the environment.
   YARD WASTE. Grass, leaves, shrubs, brush, tree limbs, small trees, and
vegetable/flower/garden waste. The diameter of any tree limb, brush and the
like shall not exceed two inches.
(Prior Code, § 10-A-01) (Ord. 1098, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 50.02 MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Municipal solid waste collection.
      (1)   Municipal solid waste (MSW) shall be collected from single-family
residential patrons within the corporate limits of the city. Such collection
shall be done either by city employees or by a solid waste collector under
contract with the city. The frequency of such collection shall be as determined
by the City Council.
      (2)   All cost associated with the collection and disposal of MSW shall
be paid by the collector of MSW.
      (3)   Participation in such collection is mandatory except in those
locations where the municipal solid waste collection truck cannot adequately
provide service to the dwelling.
      (4)   All municipal solid waste will be deposited in waste material
containers as provided in division (B) below.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person or establishment to allow
municipal solid waste or refuse to accumulate and collect in the city beyond
the period of one week.
   (B)   Municipal solid waste containers, use of.
      (1)   All single-family residential patrons within the city shall dispose
of their municipal solid waste only in special containers provided by the city
or its contractor.
      (2)   Municipal solid waste containers shall be constructed and
maintained in such a manner as to prevent the blowing or accidental discharge
of garbage or trash.
      (3)   No person or company shall place any hazardous, infectious or
special waste into any container for the collection by the city or its
contractor.
      (4)   No person shall deposit, throw or place any municipal solid waste
in or upon any street, alley, park or other public place. No person shall place
any municipal solid waste upon any private property, whether owned or occupied
by such person or not, unless such shall be deposited in a municipal solid
waste container.
   (C)   Collection of garbage and refuse.
      (1)   The collection of municipal solid waste from single-family
residents shall be by the city, or by contract with the city, to perform such
services.
      (2)   All residential municipal solid waste collected within the city,
with the exception of recyclable materials, shall be delivered to the Custer/
Fall River Regional Waste Facility.
(Prior Code, § 10-A-02) (Ord. 1098, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 VEHICLES FOR THE COLLECTION AND HAULING OF MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Collectors of municipal solid waste shall provide themselves with
suitable vehicles which shall be watertight and shall have a suitable cover to
prevent the escape of odors or contents. Such vehicles when collecting and
hauling municipal solid waste, shall be so loaded and covered as not to spill
any of their contents on any street, alley or highway.
   (B)   All vehicles used by the city for the collection of municipal solid
waste, or by any municipal solid waste collection hauler, shall be washed and
sanitized on a regular schedule and as necessary to prevent odors and
sanitation issues
   (C)   All commercial or municipal patrons who are hauling their own
municipal solid waste must insure that their vehicle is so loaded or covered so
as not to spill any of their contents on any street, alley or highway.
(Prior Code, § 10-A-03) (Ord. 1098, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall make a charge each month for the collection and
disposal of municipal solid waste from each municipal solid waste patron within
the city.
   (B)   The City Council shall adopt and revise by resolution a fee schedule
or schedules for collection and disposal of municipal solid waste.
(Prior Code, § 10-A-04) (Ord. 1098, passed 1-11-2011)
§ 50.05 MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE HAULERS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   License required; application.
      (1)   Any person, firm, company or corporation collecting municipal solid
waste in the city is required to have a valid city solid waste hauler’s
license.
      (2)   Application shall be made on a form provided by the city.
      (3)   The license fee shall be in an amount as set by the City Council
from time to time.
      (4)   Each new license shall be reviewed and approved by the City
Council.
   (B)   Renewal of licenses. Solid waste haulers licenses may be renewed each
year between January 1 and March 1 by paying a fee in an amount as set by the
City Council from time to time and meeting the insurance requirements of this
chapter.
      (1)   Any license which has not been renewed by March 1 will be
considered a new license and subject to the application requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year. A renewal
notice will be sent to current license holders.
   (C)   Revocation of license. The City Council may revoke any municipal solid
waste haulers license upon finding that the holder of such license has
willfully violated any statute, ordinance, rule or regulation pertaining to
such license or has aided or abetted any unlicensed person in performing work
which requires a municipal solid waste hauler’s license or has demonstrated an
inability or unfitness to perform the work, or has failed to renew, or has lost
the minimum bonding and insurance requirements specified herein.
   (D)   Insurance required for contractors. A certificate of insurance showing
that the applicant has in effect:
      (1)   A statutory worker’s compensation insurance policy, including
employer’s liability coverage in the amount of $100,000;
      (2)   A liability policy covering business operations, including coverage
for owned and non-owned vehicles with limits of not less than $300,000 bodily
injury for any one individual, and $300,000 for injury or destruction of the
property of others;
      (3)   Such certificate shall contain a statement to the effect that the
policy cannot be canceled or substantially altered without notice to the city;
and
      (4)   State sales tax license number.
(Prior Code, § 10-A-05) (Ord. 1098, passed 1-11-2011)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Application for water service
   
51.03   Service sizes, materials and installation
   
51.04   Service line connections; termination
   
51.05   Water meters
   
51.06   Service line installation
   
51.07   Disputed water bills
   
51.08   Water rates and billing
   
51.09   After hours service calls
   
51.10   Critical water condition
   
51.11   Resale of municipal water
   
51.12   Private and public fire protection
   
51.13   Water main extensions
   
51.14   Privately owned water wells
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFTER HOURS. Any time outside of the regular work day of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00
p.m., Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
   AS-BUILT MAP. A map that indicates the actual location, depth, size and type
of a utility or service installed below grade, to include location indicators
such as names, address, legal description, streets and other permanent
landmarks to assist in the mapping of said utilities or services for the
purpose of locating those utilities or services in the future.
   AUTHORIZED PERSON. Any current city utility worker and/or a licensed
plumber.
   CITY or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Hot Springs, South Dakota and the area
within the territorial limits of the City of Hot Springs, South Dakota.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The city’s Comprehensive Development Plan.
   CONSTRUCTION WATER. Water from the municipal water system that is used for
purposes incidental to the construction process where municipal sewer system is
not utilized. CONSTRUCTION WATER accounts are billed for water use only.
   COPPER METER SETTER. The apparatus that is also known as the meter “yoke”
that is utilized for the placement and connection of the water meter.
   MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM. All aspects of the water system including, wells and
spring boxes, pumps and pumping stations, treatment, control systems, storage
facilities and distribution infrastructure.
   PUBLIC WORKS ENGINEER. The official whose duties shall include the
supervision of all planning, construction, maintenance and repair of public
works of the city.
   READILY ACCESSIBLE LOCATION. Any location that does not require special
tools, demolition or destruction of materials to access and that will allow
enough space for a utility worker to gain access and functionally work a
minimum of three feet vertical clearance.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The department responsible for all aspects of the water
collection and distribution system including, treatment, storage, repair and
service of such system. The term shall include administration, clerical and
support staff when appropriate.
   WATER DEPARTMENT SUPERINTENDENT. The city employee or contract employee in
direct responsible charge for the fundamental and day to day operations of the
collection, treatment, storage and distribution system of the municipal water
service.
   WATER MAIN. The primary water distribution lines lying within the city
rights-of-way and utility easements for the purpose of providing water service.
   WATER SERVICE CONNECTION PERMIT. Also known as TAP APPLICATION, shall mean
the application form filled out by the water service installer as a means of
requesting water service to a building or premises by means of tapping into the
city water main.
   WATER SERVICE LINE. The line and apparatus from the city water main to the
building or premises being served.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-01) (Ord. 1130, passed 5- -2013; Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-
2018)
§ 51.02 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Application for a water service connection, also referred to as a
tap application, shall be made to the Building Official on a form provided by
the city.
      (2)   A site plan shall accompany the application, indicating the
proposed location of the connection to the water main.
      (3)   An “as-built” map shall be provided to the Building Official
indicating the exact location and depth of the actual connection, such as-built
shall be attached to the application as part of the permanent record of
installation.
   (B)   Connection fees.
      (1)   Said application must be made at least five working days before the
work is commenced. A permit shall be issued after the application has been
approved by the City Building Official or Public Works Engineer and the payment
of the water tap connection fee, which is set by Council and subject to change.
      (2)   Such fees are to be paid at the time of application. For users out
of the city, the water tap connection fees shall be two times the fees
specified.
   (C)   Information verification.
      (1)   Prior to the approval of any application, the city shall verify
that any water main, water service line, water meters or apparatuses have been
installed or will be installed in accordance with this chapter. In the event
there is any change in the information required in division (A)(1) above, the
application will be deemed void and the owner shall submit a new or revised
application for permit to the city for approval.
      (2)   In the event the subject property is not serviced by the municipal
water system and legal connection cannot be made to service the property, the
application shall be denied unless provisions for a water main extension are
included in the application.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-02) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1063, passed 6- -2008;
Ord. 1130, passed 5- -2013; Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1249, passed 11-
6-2023)
§ 51.03 SERVICE SIZES, MATERIALS AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Minimum service sizes.
      (1)   Minimum size service taps for single-family dwellings is one inch.
      (2)   Three-fourths inch service taps for mobile home dwellings will only
be permitted in accordance with the provisions of the National Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Service taps.
      (1)   The applicant for the water service connection shall notify the
Water Superintendent when the water service connection is ready for inspection
and connection to the water main. The city will make all taps on all city owned
water mains. Exception: the city reserves the right to contract with outside
resources when deemed necessary.
      (2)   Saddle shall be double-strap bronze by Mueller Corp or approved
equivalent.
   (C)   Installation requirements and responsibility.
      (1)   All approved materials will be furnished by the contractor or owner
with the exception of the water meter, which will be furnished by the city.
      (2)   All two-inch and larger services require flanged meter connections
for the water meter along with shut-off valves directly upstream and downstream
of the meter.
      (3)   All installations within the city’s area of responsibility shall be
installed in accordance with the city water standards.
   (D)   New services connected to existing municipal stub-outs. In addition to
all other fees paid for a new water service connection, those new services that
connect to a municipally installed service line stub-out to the property will
pay a water connection to a municipal stub-out fee, which is set by Council and
subject to change. For users out of the city, the fee shall be two times the
specified fee.
   (E)   Excavation permits.
      (1)   Excavation work done in the public right-of-way (streets, alleys
and the like) shall be done by a city’s licensed trenching contractor. See
Chapter 110 for license regulations.
      (2)   An excavation permit as provided by the ordinances of this city
must first be obtained before a water service connection permit can be issued.
   (F)   Water main repair; shut-offs. The city reserves the right at any time
to shut off the water on any main for the purpose of repairing, making
connections, extensions or cleaning the same, and it is expressly provided that
no claim shall be made against the city by reason of such users affected. In
case of emergency, except where the health and safety of the people is
involved, the water may be shut off without notice.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-03) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1063, passed 6- -2008;
Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1249, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 51.04 SERVICE LINE CONNECTIONS; TERMINATION.
   (A)   Unlawful connections.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install any water service
line into or about any building or any grounds, or do any plumbing work that
directly affects the supply of any premises with water from the city water
mains without first obtaining a water service connection permit to do such
work. All water mains constructed within the corporate limits or jurisdiction
of the city must be installed according to plans approved by the city’s Public
Works Engineer.
      (2)   Penalty: per SDCL § 46-1-11.
   (B)   Water service line connections.
      (1)   All work to be done for the installation of the service line from
the water main into said premises, and all labor connected therewith, shall be
done by or under the direction of a plumbing contractor or pipe laying
contractor, licensed by the state, who shall be employed and paid by the owner
or consumer and who shall at all times hold the city harmless and indemnify
said city against all accidents or damage to persons or property arising from
neglect in performance of the said work.
      (2)   Provisions for the termination or abandonment of existing water
services shall be as follows.
         (a)   Any property owner who shall discontinue an existing water
service to any building or premises for any reason shall, at his or her own
expense, have said service disconnected at the city water main.
         (b)   Upon approval of the Water Department Superintendent or the
Public Works Engineer, the existing water service may be allowed to remain
provided that the water service line is not compromised in any manner and shall
remain connected to a properly placed and installed curb stop valve.
         (c)   It shall be prohibited to terminate an existing water service
within the city right-of-way in any manner other than as provided herein.
         (d)   Violations of these provisions shall result in the city causing
such existing water service to be terminated in accordance with the provisions
herein, the costs of which shall be charged to the property owner. Upon failure
of the property owner to satisfy the bill within 30 days of the date of
billing, the city shall place a lien against that property in the amount of the
bill and all costs associated with such action.
         (e)   Any work performed by a private contractor, from the water main
to the curb stop within the city’s right-of-way, shall be warranted for a
period of two years from the date that the water was turned on.
      (3)   The city may shut off water to any user that has caused, or is
causing, the contamination of any source of surface or ground water because of
a faulty or inadequate septic system or where that cause is eminent.
   (C)   Water service line materials.
      (1)   Materials; requirements. All materials for the installation of new
water service lines, with the exception of the copper meter setter and the
water meter, shall be furnished by the owner, or his or her plumbing or pipe
laying contractor, and shall comply with the following requirements.
         (a)   Water service line pipe from main to water meter, less than two
inches in diameter, shall be made of type “K” soft copper or AWWA C-901
polyethylene PE3408/PE4710 with a pressure rating of 200 psi or greater.
         (b)   Water service line pipe from main to water meter greater than
two inches shall be made of AWWA Class 150 (or above) C-900 PVC, AWWA C-901
polyethylene PE3408/PE4710 or AWWA Class 50 (or above) C-150 Ductile Iron pipe.
         (c)   For a new connection: if the service line is copper and if the
existing curb stop is made of mixed metal, the city will replace the curb stop
at the city’s expense.
      (2)   Curb stops and curb boxes.
         (a)   Curb stops shall be placed on each new service line that is two
inches or less in diameter.
         (b)   Curb stops shall be of the Minneapolis pattern.
         (c)   Curb stops shall be placed on, or as near the property line
adjacent to the water main, as possible.
         (d)   Curb stops shall be made of brass with 90-degree operation.
         (e)   Connections for service pipe shall be Mueller style compression
type with locknut rings.
         (f)   Curb boxes shall be cast iron and of the Minneapolis type
pattern.
         (g)   The lid shall be a screw type marked “water” with a pentagon
nut.
         (h)   Risers shall be a minimum of one and one-half inches in
diameter.
         (i)   The top of the curb stop boxes shall be set at grade.
         (j)   No mixed metal corporation stop or curb stop is permitted.
      (3)   Gate valves and valve boxes.
         (a)   Gate valves shall be used on all service lines larger than two
inches in diameter.
         (b)   Valves shall be placed in proximity to the water main within
five feet of the tapping sleeve or installed “Tee”.
         (c)   Gate valves shall have a cast iron body, two-inch square
operating nut, mechanical joint connections with mechanical joint restraints
(mega lugs), and are to open counterclockwise. The valve box shall be made of
cast iron with a lid marked “water,” with a rubber valve box alignment adapter.
      (4)   Water service apparatus.
         (a)   Tapping saddle. All taps two inches or less in diameter shall
use a bronze tapping saddle with double straps.
         (b)   Tapping sleeve. All taps larger than two inches in diameter
shall use a tapping sleeve and gate valve.
         (c)   Corporation stop. All taps two inches or less in diameter shall
use a brass corporation stop of the Minneapolis pattern type in conjunction
with a tapping saddle. The inlet shall be Corporation Connection (CC) tapered
thread (AWWA Standard) and the outlet connection shall be for copper tube size
pipe with Mueller style compression locknut ring fitting.
         (d)   Stopcock. Every service shall be equipped with a stopcock or
shut-off valve on the inside of the premises to enable consumers to turn off
the water in case of accidents to the pipes on the premises and to be able to
drain their pipes to prevent freezing. The stopcock or shut-off valve shall be
located in a readily accessible location where the water service enters the
premises.
         (e)   Meter pits. In new construction where meter pits are used, meter
pits shall be of the PVC coil-type with backflow prevention and installed to a
depth of not less than six feet below finished or final grade. The owner is
responsible for meter pit assembly and any check valve, pressure reducer or
other fitting and any subsequent maintenance and/or repair.
         (f)   Copper meter setters and backflow preventers.
            1.   Where a meter pit is not used, copper meter setters shall be
used on water services lines two inches or less in diameter.
            2.   The copper meter setter shall be located in a readily
accessible location.
            3.   Immediately downstream of the copper meter setter a double
check backflow preventer will be installed. Following the backflow preventer, a
pressure reducing valve may be installed if desired or recommended.
         (g)   Flange meter settings and backflow preventers.
            1.   Flange meter settings will be used on all services larger than
two inches in diameter.
            2.   Unless otherwise specified by the Water Department
Superintendent, the flange meter setting will be located just inside the
premises where the water service enters the building.
            3.   The meter settings shall be located in a readily accessible
location.
            4.   The setting shall be located just downstream from a wheel type
gate valve. Ball valves are permitted for use in service lines of two inches or
less. Immediately downstream of the meter setting will be a double check
backflow preventer.
            5.   Following the backflow preventer, a pressure reducing valve
may be installed if desired or recommended.
            6.   Following the backflow preventer (or in the case when a
pressure reducing valve is used), a second wheel type gate valve shall be
installed immediately downstream.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-04) (Ord. 1130, passed 5- -2013; Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-
2018; Ord. 1249, passed 11-6-2023) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 WATER METERS.
   (A)   One meter to each service. Each separate service must be recorded by
one meter only, for which only one bill will be rendered by the city. Following
are the only three exceptions:
      (1)   Meters that are installed for the purpose of metering irrigation
water only;
      (2)   For service provided outside the city limits to nongovernmental
entities, the user may have more than one separate service recorded by one
meter so long as the user receives prior approval from the city; and
      (3)   Duplexes and multi-family dwellings may be individually metered
provided that each meter is provided with a shut-off valve that is accessible
to the city without entering a private residence.
   (B)   Meter location and accessibility.
      (1)   Each owner or water user shall provide a suitable location for the
water meter to be installed by the city. The city shall have the right to deny
water service where a meter is set in violation of this code.
      (2)   Where a meter pit is not used, meters may be located on the water
user’s premises in the basement, cellar, utility room or in exterior meter pits
on the property of the consumer. Locations that are tight, narrow or low, such
as crawl spaces with less than four feet of vertical clearance, are not
acceptable locations for meter installations.
      (3)   The city may install remote meter reading devices on the structure
of the owner or water user and such devices shall be considered as part of the
water meter. Each meter must be accessible for the purpose of reading,
inspecting or repairing such meter.
      (4)   If the owner or water user refuses to grant access to any water
meter or refuses to keep free access to said water meter for the purpose of
reading, inspecting or repairing by the city, the water service shall be shut
off from such property and not turned on again until such violations have been
corrected and a disconnect and reconnect fee, set by Council and subject to
change is paid.
      (5)   The reading of the meter shall be prima facie evidence of the
amount of water consumed.
   (C)   Access to consumer’s premises. The city shall be given permission to
enter the water user’s premises for the purposes of reading meters, inspecting
and keeping them in repair, and/or installing or removing any or all of its
apparatus used in connection with the supply of water or for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   To make necessary or desirable repairs, or because of leaks,
alterations or extensions;
      (2)   For non-payment of any bills;
      (3)   For failure to provide proper security when requested to do so;
      (4)   For fraudulent use of water;
      (5)   For misrepresentation in the application to the city for water
service;
      (6)   When the water user has vacated the premises;
      (7)   For tampering with the city’s meter or meter connections, or to
safeguard the city’s property from damage or further damage;
      (8)   For reasons of health and/or safety;
      (9)   During periods of water shortage;
      (10)   For the purpose of securing compliance with orders issued by civil
or military authority;
      (11)   For any violation of the provisions of this Water Code or contract
for water service;
      (12)   To ensure compliance with this chapter; or
      (13)   To verify the size of the tap, the number of users, the kind of
service and the purposes for which the water is used.
   (D)   Meter location for non-resident users. Water meters for all non-
resident users will be located inside the corporate limit boundary or at a
location designated by the city. The city will not be responsible for any water
mains, water service, water meters or apparatuses installed outside the city
limits unless the same are installed by the city, and meet the materials
requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Meter responsibility. The city provides the initial meter and is only
responsible for the meter and meter yoke, but not responsible for service lines
in or out when there is a point of shut off before the meter.
   (F)   Frozen/damaged meters.
      (1)   City will assist with thawing frozen meters once per season, if
necessary. Repeat calls for service will be charged a call out fee set by
Council from time to time.
      (2)   The customer is responsible for all damage to the meter caused by
repeated freezing, tampering, or other mistreatment.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-05) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1063, passed 6- -2008;
Ord. 1130, passed 5- -2013; Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1249, passed 11-
6-2023)
§ 51.06 SERVICE LINE INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Service line installation.
      (1)   Water meters and water meter yokes shall not be less than five-
eighths inch in new construction and service line replacement projects.
      (2)   Water service lines shall be installed at a minimum depth of six
feet below finished grade.
      (3)   A tracer wire shall be installed with each water service line and
attached or affixed to the curb stop within six inches of the finished or final
grade.
   (B)   Service line responsibility. City responsibility ends at the first
point of shut off, i.e., curb stop, angle valve, or gate valve with the
following exceptions:
      (1)   Where there is no curb stop or shut-off device between the
corporation stop and the structure in question, the city’s responsibility shall
end at the property line.
      (2)   Where there is a curb stop or gate valve that functions as first
point of shut off, the city is not responsible for service line materials from
that point, with the exception of the meter yoke assembly.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-06) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1063, passed 6- -2008;
Ord. 1130, passed 4- -2012; Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1249, passed 11-
6-2023)
§ 51.07 DISPUTED WATER BILLS.
   (A)   Disputed water bills.
      (1)   Water rebates shall not be granted under the following conditions:
         (a)   When the water loss is the result of leaking service or
distribution lines;
         (b)   When the water loss is the result of malfunction of fixtures,
including, but not limited to, washers, ice machines and water softeners;
         (c)   Once the water has run through the meter, it becomes the
responsibility of the customer to pay for the water, except where it is
discovered through the normal billing process and checked by the Water
Superintendent that an excessive amount of water has been metered and
subsequently lost, without any evidence of the water leak being evident or
observed and where the water user was not aware of the leak or negligent in any
manner regarding the leak; or
         (d)   When the water loss is the result of improper installation and
operation of service line and related fixtures.
      (2)   Water rebates may be granted when one or more of the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   Incorrect meter readings due to the negligence of city
personnel;
         (b)   Faulty meter;
         (c)   Faulty meter installation;
         (d)   Leaks in city-owned equipment; or
         (e)   Where it is discovered through the normal billing process and
checked by the Water Superintendent that an excessive amount of water has been
metered and subsequently lost, without any evidence of the water leak being
evident or observed and where the water user was not aware of the leak or
negligent in any manner regarding the leak.
      (3)   A customer wishing to dispute a water utility billing may do so
provided the customer:
         (a)   First pays the disputed bill in full, and then;
         (b)   Files a written request for review of said billing on a form
provided by the city within 30 days following the receipt of the disputed bill;
and
         (c)   Where the disputed bill exceeds three times a 12-month average
of normal water usage monthly billing. Partial payment in the amount of the
undisputed portion of the bill may be accepted by the City Finance Office prior
to the review of the disputed amount of the bill.
      (4)   Adjustments:
         (a)   The disputed bill shall be adjusted by using the following
formula: a 12-month average of normal water usage shall be determined. The
overage water used shall be billed at 30% of the current rate per thousand, as
produced by the city; and
         (b)   Any water bill adjustments granted in this section shall be made
in the form of a credit to the water bill, unless the account is being closed,
then the adjustment shall be made in the form of a check refund paid after the
next regular meeting of the City Council.
   (B)   Testing water meters at request of user.
      (1)   In addition to routine city meter tests, the city will test a meter
whenever it is requested to do so by a water user. A fee, set by resolution of
the City Council, shall be charged for the removal of the meters to be tested.
The fee shall be paid to the city by the water user in advance of such
requested test. User is also responsible for the applicable third party testing
fees as well as any shipping charges.
      (2)   In the event the meter so tested is found to have an error in
registration of more or less than 3% of its normal rated capacity, the advance
charge will be refunded and the disputed bill or bills shall be corrected
accordingly.
      (3)   In the event the meter so tested is found to be accurate within 3%
of its normal rated capacity, then the advance charge will be retained by the
city.
      (4)   Correction of a disputed bill shall apply both to excess or
insufficient registration. All meters shall be considered accurate if they
register within 3% fast or 3% slow. Whenever a meter is found to be inaccurate,
it shall be replaced by the city with an accurate meter without expense to the
water user.
      (5)   A disputed bill will be corrected retroactive for a maximum of
three billing periods only.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-07) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1063, passed 6- -2008;
Ord.1101, passed 2- -2011; Ord. 1063, passed 5- -2013; Ord. 1151, passed 11- -
2014; Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1217, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 51.08 WATER RATES AND BILLING.
   (A)   Generally. Water rates for resident family dwellings and commercial
users shall be set by either resolution or ordinance by the City Council. There
shall be a minimum monthly demand charge for water for all users based on the
size of the meter which shall include the first 1,000 gallons of water used,
plus a standard rate fee per 1,000 gallons of water used over the first 1,000
gallons. City Council shall adopt and revise by resolution a fee schedule for
metered and flat rate water.
   (B)   Water rate for municipal facilities. Water for the city will be
metered, billed and credited back to the function charged by the Water Fund as
a transfer in (forgiveness).
   (C)   Water rate for out of the city, and other exceptions.
      (1)   The water rates of users out of the city shall be calculated as
follows.
         (a)   A out of the city user having only one separate service with one
meter shall pay two times the minimum monthly fee, and two times the standard
water rate over 1,000 gallons for resident users.
         (b)   A out of the city user having more than one separate service
with one meter shall pay two times the minimum monthly fee for each service had
each service been metered individually, and two times the standard water rate
over 1,000 gallons for resident users.
         (c)   The city may negotiate and contract for a different rate for
bulk water sales to other entities and the fees will be set by resolution.
         (d)   Hydrant meter rate shall be set by Council and subject to
change.
      (2)   Water fill station users: the rates for the water fill station
shall be set by Council and subject to change.
      (3)   Pool filling: the rate to fill a residential or commercial pool is
set by Council and subject to change, allowed one time per year. Additional
fillings shall be at two times the standard cost.
      (4)   Seasonal water users: a regular water account holder can be out of
service for more than 90 days without being charged the disconnect or reconnect
fee upon getting into service again. If the time out of service is less than 90
days the reconnect fee will apply.
   (D)   Billing upon estimate.
      (1)   If the city is unable to obtain access to premises or dwellings for
a meter reading, an estimated bill will be issued based upon the last meter
reading.
      (2)   The proper adjustment will be made when the meter reading is
obtained. In no case will any bill be estimated more than one billing period.
If any meter reading is not obtained at the end of any such billing period, the
water will be turned off ten days after notice in writing has been mailed to
the last known address of the person charged for water use, or by leaving
notice by door card at the address of the consumer account that such water
service will be shut off within 48 hours until such meter reading is obtained,
and the water shall not be turned on again until the disconnect fee is paid for
turning water service off and the reconnect fee is paid for turning the water
service on.
   (E)   Construction water; deposit required.
      (1)   On all new construction a construction water account shall be
opened any time that construction water is desired.
      (2)   Application for water service shall be made on a form provided by
the city. A water deposit shall be made at the time of application per division
(F) below.
   (3)   The water user shall notify the Water Department to request the water
service to be turned on for construction water use. The Water Department shall
provide the necessary meter yoke to be installed by the plumbing contractor.
The Water Department shall install the water meter provided that an approved
back flow prevention device has been properly installed by the plumber. The
water service shall then be turned on by Water Department personnel.
      (4)   Construction water accounts shall be billed for water use in
accordance with division (A) above.
      (5)   Upon the issuance of the certificate of occupancy by the Building
Official, the construction water account shall transition out of the
construction water account and into the applicable residential or commercial
water account.
      (6)   Unauthorized persons shall not turn water service on or off to any
structure under penalty as provided in this chapter except as follows:
         (a)   Emergency water leaks;
         (b)   Charging and testing new or newly repaired water service lines;
and
         (c)   Flushing of newly installed service lines by a licensed plumber.
      (7)   Penalty: Per SDCL § 46-1-11.
   (F)   Application for water account; credit requirements of water users.
      (1)   Application for water service shall be made by the property owner
on a form provided by the city. The application shall include the billing
address of the property owner and the account shall be the responsibility of
the applicant.
         (a)   A property with one shut off for multiple meters, where there is
a new application for water service, is required to have the service placed in
the property owner’s name.
         (b)   Transferring rental service into property owner’s name: existing
tenants are “grandfathered” as the water account holder. As new tenants are
moved in, all new water applications for service shall be made in the name of
the property owner.
      (2)   The city shall have the right at any time to require the water user
to make a reasonable deposit or to give a reasonable safe guarantee to secure
payment of its bills for water service, conforming to the laws of the state.
         (a)   The deposit amount will be set by Council and subject to change,
such deposit shall be credited to the customer account after one year provided
the account has not been late or delinquent in that time. For accounts where
direct payment from the applicant’s financial institution has been approved,
security deposits shall be reduced.
         (b)   Hydrant meter deposit will be set by Council and subject to
change.
   (G)   Bills and payments.
      (1)   Municipal utility bills are rendered monthly which show billing
amounts for various city services as are applicable to a specific user. Bills
are due when rendered and are delinquent 15 days after they have been rendered.
      (2)   If any municipal utility user neglects or refuses to pay the amount
due for any or all of the municipal charges on or before the delinquent date,
the city shall provide such delinquent municipal utility user with a written
notice of termination of water service.
      (3)   The notice of termination will specify the reason for the impending
shut-off, the exact amount owed, the steps which the municipal utility user can
take to avoid the shut-off. The steps necessary to have service restored after
the shut-off, and the means to appeal the notice of termination.
      (4)   A municipal utility user shall have the right to appeal said notice
of termination to the City Council. Application for appeal shall be made within
five business days of notification and shall be made on a form provided by the
city. The hearing shall be held during a regularly scheduled City Council
meeting. Failure to appeal the notice of termination within the specified time
period shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and
adjudication of the notice or any portion thereto.
      (5)   Following hearing, if it appears that there is no bona fide and
just dispute regarding the bill, a notice of shut-off will be provided the
water user, which notice shall specify the time and date the shut-off will be
made.
      (6)   Delinquent bills.
         (a)   All municipal utility users whose bills are delinquent shall be
subject to a monthly late fee set by Council and subject to change.
         (b)   Accounts that are delinquent greater than 60 days shall have the
balance of that account, including any associated fines or fees, assessed to
that property and service terminated.
         (c)   Where water service has been disconnected due to delinquency, a
disconnect fee and reconnect fee shall be charged.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-08) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 970, passed 11- -2000;
Ord. 1028, passed 1- -2006; Ord. 1030, passed 2- -2006; Ord, 1063, passed 6- -
2008; Ord. 1076, passed 4- -2009; Ord. 1093, passed 6- -2010; Ord. 1130, passed
5- -2013; Ord. 1168,passed 10- -2016; Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1249,
passed 11-6-2023)
§ 51.09 AFTER HOURS SERVICE CALLS.
   (A)   There shall be charged in addition to any other authorized charge, the
after hours call out fee will be charged to any account owner who requests the
city to make water calls other than during regular working hours, including
Sundays and holidays (does not apply to emergencies).
   (B)   All such charges are to be added to the appropriate water bill.
   (C)   The city shall not be responsible for thawing frozen water services
past the point of city responsibility.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-09) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1051, passed 8- -2007;
Ord. 1130, passed 5- -2013; Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1249, passed 11-
6-2023)
§ 51.10 CRITICAL WATER CONDITION.
   (A)   During a critical water condition or shortage as determined by the
city, it shall be the responsibility of the Mayor, or the President of the
Council in the Mayor’s absence, to initiate such measures and restrictions as
recommended conserving precious water resources. Such water restrictions may be
imposed on all water users, and shall remain in effect until the situation
warrants that they be removed or lessened.
   (B)   Disregard for restrictions so imposed shall be sufficient cause for
refusal or discontinuance of service.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-10) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1063, passed 6- -2008;
Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 51.11 RESALE OF MUNICIPAL WATER.
   (A)   Water furnished by the city shall be used by the water user, household
members, guests, tenants and employees only. The water user shall not sell
water within the city limits, but the sale of water outside the city limits may
be permitted under such terms and conditions as the City Council may provide.
   (B)   The water user shall not permit the water supplied to be piped or
transported to any other place or location, but such water may be piped or
transported to another place or location outside the city limits under such
terms and conditions as the City Council may provide.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to discontinue the supply of water to any
water user for violation of the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-11; Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 51.12 PRIVATE AND PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Private fire protection systems.
      (1)   Private fire protection systems must be installed in accordance
with standards set forth by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA).
Plans, specifications and calculations shall be supplied to the City Building
Official or Public Works Engineer for review and acceptance.
      (2)   Rates for private fire protection systems are set by Council and
subject to change.
      (3)   Connections to water mains for automatic fire sprinkler systems
shall be permitted only after the specifications for said connections have been
submitted to and approved by the City Building Official or Public Works
Engineer prior to the commencement of construction of said connections.
   (B)   Public fire hydrants for fire protection only. Fire hydrants
authorized by the city are for the use of the City Fire Department for the
extinguishment of fires and must not be used for any other purposes, except
such as may be specified in writing by the City Public Works Engineer or the
Water Department Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-12) (Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1249, passed 11-6-
2023)
§ 51.13 WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Permanent extensions; assessment districts.
      (1)   Inside city limits.
         (a)   Water users desiring to have the city make permanent extensions
of its water distribution system through an assessment district shall petition
the city in writing for such extension.
         (b)   The petition shall set forth the nature and character of service
requested, the location of the distribution system extension requested, the
number of potential properties to be served, the legal descriptions of those
properties, and all other pertinent facts and details relating to the
extension.
         (c)   The petition shall contain the names, mailing addresses and
signatures of the owners of at least 55% of those properties to be served.
         (d)   Upon acceptance of the petition for water distribution system
extension, the city shall estimate the total installed cost of the requested
distribution system extension and will advise all affected property owners, in
writing, of the estimated total cost of such extension.
         (e)   Upon acceptance of the proposed assessment district by the
owners of at least 75% of the affected properties, the city shall begin the
notification and public hearing process required for assessment districts.
         (f)   The city will perform engineering design and inspections for
areas of the city that are already developed or partially developed with
multiple residential or commercial improvements.
         (g)   The city shall not provide engineering design for new or
proposed subdivisions in substantially undeveloped portions of the city. This
expense will lie with the developer. Plans will require approval of the Public
Works Engineer and installations will be subject to inspection and acceptance
by the city.
         (h)   All materials and methods of installation shall comply with the
provisions of the city’s Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Improvements.
      (2)   Outside city limits. Water main extension projects outside the city
shall comply with the subdivision ordinance and the city’s Comprehensive
Development Plan as applicable and this section.
      (3)   Water main assessments. The City Council may make the determination
that an improvement is necessary absent a petition by landowners. The governing
body has the power to establish one or more districts for the construction and
maintenance of local improvements; they may establish or modify the boundary of
the district, construct improvements or portions of improvements, and assess
the amount of the special benefit of the improvement to the property within the
district. See the provisions of SDCL Chapter 9-43 for more information on
special assessment districts.
      (4)   Maintenance fees. The governing body may annually, by resolution,
levy a special maintenance fee for the purpose of maintaining or repairing any
public improvements within the municipality, which are maintained by the
municipality. The governing body may designate the lot or portion of lots
against which a maintenance fee is to be assessed. The maintenance fee may be
directly billed by the municipality to the property owners, or may be collected
by the county with real estate tax assessments.
   (B)   Privately funded and installed main extensions; cost recovery. The
purpose of this provision is to allow for reasonable cost recovery to
developers who privately fund a water main extension project where that water
main extension directly benefits certain properties. The city may enter into an
agreement with a developer where the city collects a pre-determined connection
fee through the water service connection process, that pre-determined portion
is then forwarded to that developer to off-set the initial cost of the
construction of that water main.
      (1)   Water main extensions that are completely privately funded shall:
         (a)   First receive approval from the City Council;
         (b)   Be designed and installed in accordance with plans that have
been reviewed and accepted by the Public Works Engineer;
         (c)   Be inspected by designated city personnel; and
         (d)   Be certified with a two-year warranty against defects and
workmanship.
      (2)   The cost of privately funded water main extension projects may be
recovered, in part or in whole, with the following provisions.
         (a)   Apportionments, charges and negotiated connection fees are
subject to approval by the City Council.
         (b)   The developer is free to negotiate with potential connectors,
and reasonable charges will be accepted by the City Council.
      (3)   Properties that will potentially benefit from the water main
extension, and the owners of those properties, shall be provided on the
agreement to be entered into between the developer and the city.
      (4)   No interest or charges in excess of the cost of construction,
including engineering costs, can be collected.
      (5)   Cost recovery agreements:
         (a)   No agreements shall exceed ten years of commitment by the city;
and
         (b)   The developer may pursue private cost recovery methods in lieu
of entering into a cost recovery agreement with the city.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-13) (Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 51.14 PRIVATELY OWNED WATER WELLS.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the municipal water supply
and distribution system from contamination resulting from cross-sections with
privately owned wells.
   (B)   It is also the purpose of this chapter to protect the water supply of
the city and to insure equitable distribution of clean water and its related
costs, to include water for fire protection, to the residences and businesses
of the city.
      (1)   No new privately owned wells will be permitted within the city
following the passage of this chapter except as follows.
         (a)   Wells used exclusively for outside irrigation of lawns and/or
gardens.
         (b)   Wells used exclusively for heat transfer systems (heat pumps).
         (c)   Domestic wells will be permitted only if the municipal water
distribution system is more than 350 feet from the boundary of the property to
be served.
         (d)   If in the opinion of the Building Official or Public Works
Engineer it is not feasible or reasonable to extend the system due to
inaccessibility (topography, rock and the like).
      (2)   No property or facility will be permitted to be served
simultaneously by a privately owned well and the municipal water supply for
domestic service. Privately owned wells are permitted for outside irrigation
systems and heat transfer systems provided they are physically separated from
the domestic service with no pipes, valves or fittings connecting the two
systems together.
      (3)   All properties and facilities currently receiving domestic,
irrigation or heat pump water from privately owned wells, and all future wells
whether for outside irrigation or heat transfer systems shall have no pipe,
valve or fitting connecting any of these systems with the municipal water
system. Privately owned wells and the municipal water system must have no
physical connection. Exception: provisions for municipal water supply for back-
up or emergency operations may be approved by the Public Works Engineer.
      (4)   Before a privately owned well can be installed, the owner must
first obtain a building permit from the City Building Official which shows the
location, depth, planned capacity and proposed piping schematics. The permit
must also show where the discharge from the system will be delivered. All new
installations will be subject to the inspection and approval of the Building
Official.
      (5)   When an existing privately owned well is discontinued from service
by the owner, the well will be permanently discontinued and will not be
permitted to operate again. The owner of property on which a discontinued or
abandoned well is located is deemed to be the owner of that well. The owner is
responsible for plugging the abandoned well or wells as required by SDCL §§ 46-
6-18 and 46-6-27.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-14) (Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any user violates any section of this chapter, the city reserves
the right to terminate water service. Prior to termination, the city shall
provide the user with written notice of termination of water service. The
notice of termination shall state the reason for the termination, the steps
which the user can take to avoid the termination, the steps necessary to have
service restored after the termination, and the date, time and place for
hearing on the matter, and the means to appeal the notice of termination.
   (B)   Following a hearing on the notice of termination, if it appears that
there is no bona fide or just dispute concerning the reason for termination, a
notice of shut-off will be provided to the user. The notice of shut-off shall
state the time and date the shut-off will be made. Once the shut-off is made,
the city will charge the applicable disconnect and reconnect fees.
   (C)   In addition to, or in the alternative to, the provisions above, any
person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall also be subject to any remedy or injunction as allowed by law. Each day
such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable with a fine not to exceed the amount
established by SDCL §§ 22-6-2(2) and 9-19-3.
(Prior Code, § 26-A-15) (Ord. 1063, passed 6- -2008; Ord. 1130, passed 5- -
2013; Ord. 1196, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1249, passed 11-6-2023)
CHAPTER 52: WASTEWATER AND STORM SEWER
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of public sewers required
   
52.03   Private wastewater disposal (septic systems)
   
52.04   Sanitary sewers, connections and fees
   
52.05   Existing buildings
   
52.06   Installations
   
52.07   Sewer main extensions
   
52.08   Use of public sewers
   
52.09   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.10   Fees and collection
   
52.11   Bills and payments
   
52.12   Biosolids
   
52.13   Termination, remedies
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARSD. The Administrative Rules of South Dakota.
   AS-BUILT MAP. A map that indicates the actual location, depth, size and type
of a utility or service installed below grade, to include location indicators
such as names, address, legal description, streets and other permanent
landmarks to assist in the mapping of said utilities or services for the
purpose of locating those utilities or services in the future.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BIOSOLIDS. The solid, semisolid or liquid residues generated during primary,
secondary or advanced treatment of domestic sanitary sewage through one or more
controlled processes that reduce pathogens and attractiveness to vectors.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the sanitary sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The appointed official responsible for the administration
and enforcement of the city’s codes and ordinance regulating construction and
the use or occupancy of buildings and structures, public or private.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of matter under standard laboratory procedure, expressed in
milligrams per liter.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   DENR or SD-DENR. The South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pre-treated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   FORCE MAIN. Any sanitary sewer carrying wastewater under pressure as in a
pump discharge or inverted siphon.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as differentiated from domestic or sanitary waste.
   MAY. Permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any natural occurring outlet, including storm sewers and
combined sewer overflows, watercourse, crack, crevice, seasonal drainage, draw,
pond, ditch, lake or other body or surface or groundwater.
   OWNER. The owner of record according to the County Tax Assessor’s files.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen-ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PUBLIC SEWER or SEWER MAIN. A common sewer not less than six inches in
diameter with manholes and/or clean-outs installed for maintenance access,
within a right-of-way or legal utility easement, and controlled by a
governmental agency or public utility.
   PUBLIC WORKS ENGINEER. The official whose duties shall include the
supervision of all planning, construction, maintenance and repair of public
works of the city.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together.
Also known as WASTEWATER SERVICE LINE.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER SERVICE LINE. The private service line that carries wastewater from
any residential or non-residential building or structure to the public sewer
main.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface
water or unpolluted water from any source to discharge into or onto an approved
lands or waters.
   STORM WATER. Waters that originate during precipitation events to include
snow melt or runoff water from over watering, or other surface waters that
enters the storm water system.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). A measure of the filterable solids present in
a sample.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water or storm water that may be present. See SEWAGE.
   WASTEWATER DEPARTMENT. The department responsible for all aspects of the
wastewater system including, collection, treatment, storage, repair and service
of such system. The term shall include administration, clerical and support
staff when appropriate.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CONNECTION PERMIT or TAP APPLICATION. The application
form filled out by the wastewater service installer as a means of requesting
sewer service to a building or premises by means of tapping into the city sewer
main.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE LINE. Synonymous with sanitary sewer
   WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Wastewater Facilities of
the City of Hot Springs or his or her authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes referred to as
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
seasonally, continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 52.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Connection to public sewer.
      (1)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
city, except force mains, is hereby required, at the owner(s) expense, to
connect such facilities directly to the proper public sewer in accordance with
the provision of this chapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to
do so, provided that said public sewer is within 400 feet of the property line.
      (2)   Exception: where in the findings of the Public Works Engineer or
Building Official that it is not readily achievable to install the
infrastructure necessary for connecting to the sanitary sewer due to
topography, rocks or other naturally occurring barrier, other methods of
private wastewater disposal may be used where approved and appropriate.
      (3)   Penalty under §
52.99 and can result in the condemnation of the property as being unfit for
human use or habitation.
   (B)   Unlawful disposal or discharge.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any outhouse, privy,
cesspool or other similar facility intended or used for the disposal or
detention of wastewater, polluted water or human or animal excrement within the
jurisdiction of the city.
      (3)   Combined sewers are not permitted.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 52.03 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL (SEPTIC SYSTEMS).
   (A)   Construction; regulation of private wastewater disposal system.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary is not available under the provisions of §
52.02(A)(1), the sanitary sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater
disposal system, the owner(s) shall:
         (a)   Submit the proposed plans for the private wastewater disposal
system to SD-DENR for review and approval;
         (b)   Obtain an on-site wastewater disposal permit approved by the
City Building Official. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city. The applicant shall submit any plans, specifications and
other information as are deemed necessary by the Building Official; and
         (c)   A septic system permit and inspection fee, set by Council and
subject to change, shall be paid to the city upon approval of the private
wastewater application. Where construction of a private wastewater disposal
system has commenced without a permit the fee shall be multiplied by a factor
of four.
      (3)   A private wastewater disposal system shall not become operational
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Building
Official.
      (4)   The Building Official shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Building Official when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within two business days from the receipt of notice by the Building Official,
exclusive of weekends and holidays.
   (B)   Termination; abandonment of private wastewater disposal system.
      (1)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private wastewater disposal system the following shall be required:
         (a)   Upon failure of the private wastewater disposal system, or upon
demand of the Building Official or Public Works Engineer for public health or
safety concerns, direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60
days of official notice; and
         (b)   Any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater
disposal facilities shall be cleaned of wastewater and sludge and then either
removed or filled with fine sand or other approved material.
      (2)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the city or
the state in the interest of public health and safety.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1250, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 52.04 SANITARY SEWERS, CONNECTIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Sewer service line connections.
      (1)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first making application on a form provided by the city. Such
application to be approved by the Building Official or Public Works Engineer.
      (2)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all
sanitary sewers and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and back-filling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
      (3)   All costs and expense associated with the installation and
connection and maintenance of a private sewer service line shall be borne by
the owner.
      (4)   The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
be directly or indirectly occasioned by the installation of the private sewer
service.
   (B)   Wastewater service connection permits.
      (1)   There shall be two classes of wastewater service connection
permits:
         (a)   For residential service; and
         (b)   For commercial and industrial waste.
      (2)   Residential sewer services shall be a minimum of four inches and
shall have a double clean-out located within 25 feet of the residence, and
shall run directly from that property to the city right-of-way to connect to
the municipal sewer main in the most direct route obtainable.
      (3)   Where wastewater service lines cannot be installed at a 90 degree
angle to the street (+/- five degrees) as identified by the clean-out location,
a tracer wire shall be installed with the wastewater service line and attached
or affixed to the clean-out within six inches of the finished or final grade.
      (4)   Commercial and industrial sewer services shall be sized in
accordance with applicable plumbing codes. Commercial or industrial sewer
services implementing the use of grease traps, interceptors or other
containment system shall comply with the requirements of §
52.08(D) and (E).
      (5)   Commercial and Industrial sewer services greater than four inches
shall enter the sanitary sewer via an approved manhole, services not entering a
manhole shall have a double clean-out located within 25 feet of the structure.
   (C)   Sewer tap fees.
      (1)   Residential and commercial tap fees.
         (a)   For all residential sewer taps there shall be a residential
connection fee set by Council and subject to change.
         (b)   For commercial and industrial sewer services entering the
municipal sewer main via a manhole, there shall be a commercial connection fee
set by Council and subject to change. Users outside of the city will be charged
two times the fee.
      (2)   In addition to all other fees paid for a new sewer service
connection, those new services that connect to a municipally installed service
line stub-out to the property line will pay a connection to municipal stub-out
fee which will be set by Council and subject to change. Users outside of the
city will be charged two times the fee.
   (D)   Wastewater service connection (tap) application.
      (1)   Application for a wastewater service connection, also referred to
as a “tap application” shall be made to the Building Official on a form
provided by the city.
      (2)   A site plan shall accompany the application indicating the proposed
location of the connection to the sewer main.
      (3)   The applicant for the wastewater service connection permit shall
notify the Wastewater Superintendent when the wastewater service line is ready
for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing
shall be made under the supervision of the Wastewater Superintendent.
      (4)   An “as-built” map shall be provided to the Building Official
indicating the exact location and depth of the actual connection, such as-built
map shall be attached to the application as part of the permanent record of
installation.
   (E)   Sewer mains and service line responsibility.
      (1)   The City Wastewater Department will be responsible for the
maintenance and repair of all sewer mains, manholes, lift stations and other
appurtenances of the collection system located in the public right-of-way, with
the exception of private wastewater service lines, provided that all parts of
that system in question have been installed in accordance with the provisions
of such installations and have been accepted by the Public Works Engineer.
      (2)   All private wastewater service lines, fixtures and clean-outs
extending from the premises served to the sewer main in the public right-of-way
is the responsibility of the property owner to service and maintain. All
wastewater service lines and fixtures installed and connected to the municipal
sanitary collection system shall be kept in good working order, and properly
protected from frost and other damage at the expense of the owner.
      (3)   If any person shall fail to promptly repair any leaky, clogged or
inadequate wastewater service line, or if any person shall fail to promptly and
properly empty or repair any septic tank, after receiving official notification
by the city to do so, the supply of city water may be immediately shut off from
the premises of all water users on that line, and shall remain off until the
necessary repairs have been made. The city shall not be liable for any damage
resulting from the shutting off of the water, and no deductions shall be
allowed from regular water rates during the period that the water is shut off.
The water supply shall not again be turned on to the premises until all work
ordered by the city has been satisfactorily completed and a disconnect and
reconnect fee, set by Council and subject to change, paid for turning the water
off and on. In addition, the city may cause the said service pipe to be
repaired and assess the actual cost of the repair to the property.
      (4)   A wastewater service line now in existence which does not conform
to the ordinances of the city may remain in service until such line needs to be
replaced. Any replaced wastewater service line must conform to the city
ordinances and will be treated as a new sewer service line.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1250, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 52.05 EXISTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Wastewater service lines.
      (1)   A separate and independent sanitary sewer shall be provided for
every building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the sanitary
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one sanitary sewer.
      (2)   The city does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Existing services; abandonment.
      (1)   Existing building wastewater service lines may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found to meet all requirements
of this chapter and such use is authorized by the Wastewater Superintendent,
Public Works Engineer or Building Official.
      (2)   Provisions for the termination or abandonment of existing
wastewater services shall be as follows.
         (a)   Any property owner who shall discontinue an existing sewer
service line to any building or premises for any reason shall, at his or her
own expense, have said service capped and sealed at the right-of-way line
provided that the line is not damaged or compromised in any manner. All work
within the right-of-way shall be performed by a licensed installer or plumber.
An as-built map indicating location and depth in relation to a permanent
landmark shall be provided to the city.
         (b)   Upon demand of the Public Works Engineer, the existing sewer
service line shall be capped and sealed at the public sewer main.
         (c)   It shall be prohibited to terminate an existing sewer service
line within the city right-of-way in any manner other than as provided herein.
         (d)   Violations of these provisions shall result in the city causing
such existing sewer service line to be terminated in accordance with the
provisions herein, the costs of which shall be charged to the property owner.
Upon failure of the property owner to satisfy the bill within 60 days of the
date of billing, the city shall place a lien against that property in the
amount of the bill and all costs associated with such action.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 52.06 INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Excavation.
      (1)   Excavations in streets, alleys and public rights-of-way of the city
require such work to be done by a contractor with a city’s trenching contractor
license and excavation permit.
      (2)   All excavations for sanitary sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
      (3)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored as prescribed in
Chapter 94 (streets and sidewalks).
   (B)   Installation requirements.
      (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all
sanitary sewers, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
      (2)   Whenever possible, the sanitary sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 52.07 SEWER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Permanent extensions; assessment districts.
      (1)   Inside city limits.
         (a)   Property owners desiring to have the city make permanent
extensions of its wastewater collection system through an assessment district
shall petition the city in writing for such extension.
         (b)   The petition shall set forth the nature and character of service
requested, the location of the collection system extension requested, the
number of potential properties to be served, the legal descriptions of those
properties, and all other pertinent facts and details relating to the
extension.
         (c)   The petition shall contain the names, mailing addresses and
signatures of the owners of at least 55% of those properties to be served.
         (d)   Upon acceptance of the petition for wastewater collection system
extension, the city shall estimate the total installed cost of the requested
extension and will advise all the affected property owners, in writing, of the
estimated total cost of such extension.
         (e)   Upon acceptance of the proposed assessment district by the
owners of at least 75% of the affected properties, the city shall begin the
notification and public hearing process required for assessment districts.
         (f)   The city will perform engineering design and inspections for
areas of the city that are already developed or partially developed with
multiple residential or commercial improvements.
         (g)   The city shall not provide engineering design for new or
proposed subdivisions in substantially undeveloped portions of the city. This
expense will lie with the developer. Plans will require approval of the Public
Works Engineer and installations will be subject to inspection and acceptance
by the city.
         (h)   All materials and methods of installation shall comply with the
provisions of the city’s Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Improvements.
      (2)   Outside city limits. Wastewater collection system extension
projects outside the city shall comply with the subdivision regulations in
Chapter 154 and the City Comprehensive Development Plan as applicable and this
chapter.
      (3)   Sewer main assessments. The City Council may make the determination
that an improvement is necessary absent a petition by landowners. The governing
body has the power to establish one or more districts for the construction and
maintenance of local improvements; they may establish or modify the boundary of
the district, construct improvements or portions of improvements, and assess
the amount of the special benefit of the improvement to the property within the
district. See the provisions of SDCL Chapter 9-43 for more information on
special assessment districts.
      (4)   Maintenance fees. The governing body may annually, by resolution,
levy a special maintenance fee for the purpose of maintaining or repairing any
public improvements within the municipality, which are maintained by the
municipality. The governing body may designate the lot or portion of lots
against which a maintenance fee is to be assessed. The maintenance fee may be
directly billed by the municipality to the property owners, or may be collected
by the county with real estate tax assessments
   (B)   Privately funded and installed main extensions; cost recovery. The
purpose of this provision is to allow for reasonable cost recovery to
developers who privately fund a wastewater main extension project where that
wastewater main extension directly benefits certain properties. The city may
enter into an agreement with a developer where the city collects a pre-
determined connection fee through the wastewater service connection process,
that pre-determined portion is then forwarded to that developer to off-set the
initial cost of the construction of that wastewater main.
      (1)   Wastewater main extensions that are completely privately funded
shall:
         (a)   First receive approval from the City Council;
         (b)   Be designed and installed in accordance with plans that have
been reviewed and accepted by the Public Works Engineer;
         (c)   Be inspected by designated city personnel; and
         (d)   Be certified with a two-year warranty against defects and
workmanship.
      (2)   The cost of privately funded wastewater main extension projects may
be recovered, in part or in whole, with the following provisions.
         (a)   Apportionments, charges and negotiated connection fees are
subject to approval by the City Council.
         (b)   The developer is free to negotiate with potential connectors,
and reasonable charges will be accepted by the City Council.
         (c)   Properties that will potentially benefit from the wastewater
main extension, and the owners of those properties, shall be provided on the
agreement to be entered into between the developer and the city.
         (d)   No interest or charges in excess of the cost of construction,
including engineering costs, can be collected.
         (e)   Cost recovery agreements:
            1.   No agreements shall exceed ten years of commitment by the
city; and
            2.   Developer may pursue private cost recovery methods in lieu of
entering into a cost recovery agreement with the city.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 52.08 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Infiltration into sanitary sewer.
      (1)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm
water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff and subsurface drainage or
foundation drainage, into any sewer that is connected directly or indirectly to
a public sewer main.
      (2)   Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the City Public Works Engineer, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer, sanitary sewer or natural outlet
   (B)   Prohibited and limited wastes.
      (1)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other combustible,
flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
         (b)   Any water containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than (5.5), or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater works; or
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited
to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, cloth or
paper towels, impervious, rubber latex gloves, baby wipes or personal hygiene
wipes, disposable diapers, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, garbage, whole blood,
paunch manure, hair or fleshings, entrails, paper dishes, cups, milk containers
and the like.
      (2)   The following described substances, materials, waters or waste
shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process
or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will
not otherwise endanger lives, limbs, public property or constitute a nuisance.
The City Public Works Engineer may set limitations lower than the limitations
established in the regulations below if in his or her opinion such more severe
limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming the opinion
as to the acceptability, the City Public Works Engineer will give consideration
to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on
materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary
sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the City Public Works
Engineer are as follows:
         (a)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
         (b)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or product of mineral origin;
         (c)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat
or grease;
         (d)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage
grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the City Public Works Engineer for such materials;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing substances
exceeding limits which may be established by the City Public Works Engineer;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the City Public Works
Engineer in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined herein;
         (i)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; or
         (j)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (C)   Violations.
      (1)   Waters or wastes that are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which contain any of the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (B) above, and which in the judgment
of the City Public Works Engineer, may have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the City
Public Works Engineer may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment and screening to an acceptable condition
for discharge to the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rate of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treatment of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   When considering the above alternative, the City Public Works
Engineer shall give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on
the discharge. If the City Public Works Engineer permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Public Works
Engineer, the Wastewater Superintendent and State Department of Environment and
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Interceptors. Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided in
accordance with applicable plumbing codes and, when in the opinion of the City
Public Works Engineer in coordination with the Wastewater Superintendent, they
are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable
grease in excessive amounts as specified in this chapter, or any flammable
wastes, or harmful ingredients that may adversely affect the wastewater
collection or treatment system.
      (1)   Grease interceptors.
         (a)   The City Public Works Engineer or the Wastewater Superintendent
shall have the right of approval of the design, sizing and installation of all
grease interceptors.
         (b)   All kitchen drainage receiving grease shall pass through the
interceptor. The interceptor shall be easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. The responsibility of cleaning and maintaining the interceptor in
an efficient operating condition shall be the owner and/or lessee’s
responsibility.
         (c)   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captured material and shall maintain records of the dates, and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the City Public Works Engineer or the
Wastewater Superintendent.
         (d)   Existing interior replacements may be allowed when proper sizing
and installation procedures can be accomplished.
         (e)   When, in the opinion of the City Public Works Engineer, it would
be impractical or unnecessary to install a full-size grease interceptor due to
the nature or relative size of a food establishment, the installation of an
inline grease trap may be approved.
         (f)   Expense shall not be considered sufficient reason to waive the
requirements for full-size grease interceptors.
         (g)   Single-family dwelling units are exempt from the grease
interceptor requirements.
      (2)   Sand and particulate interceptors.
         (a)   The City Public Works Engineer shall have the right of approval
of the design, sizing and installation of all sand and particulate
interceptors.
         (b)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
City Public Works Engineer, and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
         (c)   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captured material and shall maintain records of the dates, and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the City Public Works Engineer or the
Wastewater Superintendent.
   (E)   Pretreatment of industrial wastes.
      (1)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
      (2)   When required by the City Public Works Engineer, the owner(s) of
any property serviced by a sanitary sewer carrying industrial wastes shall
install a suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the sanitary sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the City Public Works Engineer, and SD-DENR where required. The structure shall
be installed by the owner at the owner’s expense and shall be maintained by the
owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
      (3)   The City Public Works Engineer may require a user of sewer services
to provide information needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These
requirements may include:
         (a)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
         (b)   Chemical analysis of wastewaters;
         (c)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
         (d)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil,
solvent or other materials important to sewer use control;
         (e)   A plot plan of sewers on the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
         (f)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
         (g)   Details of systems to prevent and control the loss of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
      (4)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the procedures approved under ARSD 74:52:03:06 a.
b. r., 40 C.F.R. part 136, unless other test procedures, sampling methods,
locations, times, durations and frequencies are required by the City Public
Works Engineer and/or the Wastewater Superintendent.
      (5)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment.
   (F)   Guidelines for commercial sewage dumping.
      (1)   Permit fee. An annual dumping permit will be required of all
commercial wastewater haulers wishing to dump at the site. A permit can be
attained by a formal application and payment of the dumping permit fee, which
will be set by Council and subject to change. This permit is for a period of
January 1 through December 31. This permit can be revoked if contractor fails
to follow the guidelines set forth.
      (2)   Dumping rates. There shall be a base dumping rate for the first
1,000 gallons, and an additional rate charged for each 1,000 gallons over base,
which shall be set by Council and subject to change.
      (3)   Commercial sewage dumping hours. Commercial sewage dumping must be
coordinated in advance and may only occur between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:
30 p.m., Monday through Friday. No dumping will occur on Saturdays, Sundays,
holidays or any other leave days authorized by the city.
      (4)   Rules. An accurate and complete log of all dumps is required.
Failure to accurately report will result in suspension or termination of
dumping privileges.
      (5)   Spillage. A spillage/garbage fee shall be applied to any contractor
who is found to have spilled anywhere at the sump site, or dumped garbage into
the system. The spillage/garbage fee shall be set by Council, and subject to
change. Should spill/garbage result in drainage into any storm sewer drain, the
contractor will also be billed the cost of a sanitary sewer overflow test, as
required by the state.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1250, passed 11-6-2023) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Right of entry.
      (1)   The City Public Works Engineer, Building Official, Wastewater
Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The City Public Works Engineer, Building Official, Wastewater
Superintendent and other duly authorized employees are authorized to obtain
information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system.
      (3)   The industry may request specific information considered
confidential to be held in confidence. The industry must establish that the
revelation to the public of the information in question might result in an
advantage to competitors. Disclosure of confidential information shall be
subject to state law.
      (4)   While performing the necessary work on private properties, the City
Public Works Engineer, Building Official, Wastewater Superintendent or duly
authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company.
   (B)   Easement access.
      (1)   The City Public Works Engineer, Building Official, Wastewater
Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities lying within
said easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 52.10 FEES AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Purpose of establishing procedure for determining equitable sewer
services to be levied on all users which discharge wastewater to the wastewater
collection system. The purpose of this chapter shall be to generate sufficient
revenue to pay all costs of the operation and maintenance of the wastewater
treatment system. The cost shall be distributed to all users of the system.
   (B)   Determining the total annual cost of operation and maintenance. The
city, or its City Public Works Engineer, shall determine the total annual costs
of operation and maintenance of the wastewater system which are necessary to
maintain the capacity and performance, during the service life of the treatment
works, for which such works were designed and constructed. The total annual
cost of operation and maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, labor,
repairs, equipment replacement, maintenance, necessary modifications, power,
sampling, laboratory tests and a reasonable contingency fund.
   (C)   Rate schedule.
      (1)   Residential users are considered to be one class of user. For the
purpose of this chapter, a RESIDENTIAL USER shall be deemed to be and mean any
single independent family, and irrespective of whether living in a one-family
residence, mobile home or any other type of residence, if such residence is
served by an independent connection to the municipal sewer system of the city.
The City Council shall adopt and revise by resolution a fee schedule for
residential sewer charges.
      (2)   Multiple-family residence and mobile home parks are considered to
be one class of user. For the purpose of this chapter, a multiple-family
residence shall include duplexes, four-plexes, apartment buildings and any
structure or series of structures that contain multiple residential units that
collectively discharge their domestic waste into a single. independent
connection to the municipal sewer system of the city. For the purposes of this
chapter, a mobile home park is two or more mobile homes that collectively
discharge their domestic waste into a single, independent connection to the
municipal sewer system.
         (a)   City Council shall adopt and revise by resolution a fee schedule
for multi- family users.
         (b)   For the purpose of this chapter, fees will be based on 90% of
the number of apartments or mobile home spaces regardless of occupancy.
      (3)   City Council shall adopt and revise by resolution a fee schedule
for commercial users of the municipal wastewater system that originate within
the corporate boundaries of the city.
      (4)   All other users of the municipal wastewater system within the
corporate boundaries of the city and whose water supply did not originate from
the city’s municipal water system, shall be charged a fee for the use of the
municipal wastewater system. This fee shall be based on the flow from the user
to the total flow of the system. The fee shall be this percentage applied to
the current years’ total operation and maintenance budget for the city
wastewater treatment and collection system.
      (5)   The wastewater service charge for all out-of-town users of the
municipal wastewater system shall be two times the rate for in-town users in
the same user class categories.
      (6)   The wastewater service charge for all commercial waste haulers is
set by Council and subject to change.
   (D)   After hours service calls.
      (1)   An after hours call out fee shall be made for any call requests at
any time for service requiring more than an ordinary inspection. The fee will
be set by Council and subject to change. All such charges are to be added to
the appropriate sewer bill.
      (2)   The city shall not be responsible for thawing frozen sewer
services. The Wastewater Superintendent shall be responsible for determining
when these costs shall be assessed against the property owner, plumber or
contractor.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1250, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 52.11 BILLS AND PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Billing.
      (1)   Municipal utility bills are rendered monthly which show billing
amounts for various city services as are applicable to a specific user. Bills
are due when rendered, and are delinquent 15 days after they have been
rendered.
      (2)   If any municipal utility user neglects or refuses to pay the amount
due for any or all of the municipal utility charges on or before the delinquent
date, the city shall provide such delinquent municipal utility user with a
written notice of termination of water service and/or sewer service.
      (3)   The notice of termination will specify the reason for the impending
termination of services, the exact amount owed, the steps which the municipal
utility user can take to avoid the shut-off, the steps necessary to have
service restored after the shut-off, and the date, time and place for hearing
on the matter.
      (4)   A municipal utility user shall have the right to appeal said notice
of termination to the City Council. Application for appeal shall be made within
five business days of the date of the notice and shall be made on a form
provided by the city. The hearing shall be held during a regularly scheduled
City Council meeting. Failure to appeal the notice of termination within the
specified time period shall constitute a waiver of the right to an
administrative hearing and adjudication of the notice or any portion thereto.
      (5)   Following the hearing, if it appears that there is no bona fide and
just dispute regarding the bill, a notice of shut-off will be provided the
water user, which notice shall specify the time and date the shut-off will be
made.
      (6)   All municipal utility users whose bills are delinquent will be
subject to a late fee on unpaid accounts, plus a reconnect fee to reconnect a
water service disconnected for nonpayment of the bill. The fees are set by
Council and subject to change.
   (B)   Disputed sewer bills.
      (1)   A customer wishing to dispute a sewer billing may do so provided
the customer:
         (a)   First pays the disputed bill in full;
         (b)   Files a written request for review of said billing on a form
provided by the city within 30 days following the receipt of said bill; and
         (c)   Where the disputed bill exceeds three times the average monthly
billing, partial payment in the amount of the undisputed portion of the bill
may be accepted by the City Finance Office prior to the review of the disputed
amount of the bill.
      (2)   Sewer rebates may be granted when one or more of the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   Incorrect billing amount due to negligence of city personnel;
and
         (b)   On commercial accounts whose sewer bill is based on a percentage
of the water bill, a rebate or bill adjustment for sewer may be given when:
            1.   The corresponding water bill has been adjusted under §
51.07(A); or
            2.   When a water leak develops on the customer side of the meter
and it can be shown that the water from the leak did not enter the sewer
collection system.
      (3)   Adjustments:
         (a)   Any adjustments made to a disputed bill will be made in the form
of a credit which will be applied to the next billing, except where the amount
of the disputed bill exceeds three times the average monthly billing, at which
time a rebate may be given upon approval of the City Council; and
         (b)   Cash settlements will only be made on accounts that are intended
to be closed.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1250, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 52.12 BIOSOLIDS.
   In compliance with the provisions of the State Water Pollution Control Act
and the Administrative Rules of South Dakota, Article 74:52, the city is hereby
authorized to compost biosolids and to comply with the Sludge Management Plan
as approved by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. The city will
also comply with additions to the Sludge Management Plan as required by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency and the city will comply with all
of the permit requirements in the authorization to compost sludge biosolids.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 52.13 TERMINATION, REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any user violates any section of this chapter, the city reserves
the right to terminate water service. Prior to termination, the city shall
provide the user with written notice of termination of water service. The
notice of termination shall state the reason for the termination, the steps
which the user can take to avoid the termination, the steps necessary to have
service restored after the termination, and the date, time and place for
hearing on the matter, and the means to appeal the notice of termination.
   (B)   A municipal utility user shall have the right to appeal said notice of
termination to the City Council. Application for appeal shall be made within
five business days of the date of the notice and shall be made on a form
provided by the city. The hearing shall be held during a regularly scheduled
City Council meeting. Failure to appeal the notice of termination within the
specified time period shall constitute a waiver of the right to an
administrative hearing and adjudication of the notice or any portion thereto.
   (C)   Following a hearing on the notice of termination, if it appears that
there is no bona fide or just dispute concerning the reason for termination, a
notice of shut-off will be provided to the user. The notice of shut-off shall
state the time and date the shut-off will be made. Once the shut-off is made,
the user shall be charged the reconnect and disconnect fees.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1250, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to, or in the alternative to, the provisions of this chapter,
any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall also be subject to any remedy or injunction as allowed by law. Each day
such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense with a fine not to exceed the amount established by SDCL §§
22-6-2(2) and 9-19-3.
(Ord. 1195, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 1250, passed 11-6-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
71.   BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS
         
72.   WAYFINDING
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic and traffic accidents
   
70.03   Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.04   Traffic control devices
   
70.05   Speed limits
   
70.06   Intersections; stopping, turning, obedience to signage
   
70.07   Vehicles on roadway, general; crosswalks; pedestrians
   
70.08   Parking; obedience to signage
   
70.09   Parking; snow removal, vehicle towing
   
70.10   Loading zones; authority to impound vehicles
   
70.11   Authority to designate route of travel
   
70.12   Protective helmet required for minor
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor public way having a narrow right-of-way and affording a
secondary means of access to abutting properties.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances; and also vehicles owned or operated by members of the
Fire Department for emergency purposes.
   BOULEVARD. The area of the public right-of-way lying between the established
roadway and the adjacent property line that is set aside for public utilities,
utility poles, sidewalks or walkways, and fire hydrants.
   CROSSWALK. Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. An at-grade junction where two or more roads meet or cross.
Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every
crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting highway
shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event intersecting highway
also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of two
roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
   MOTORCYCLE. Motor vehicle designed to travel on not more than three wheels
in contact with the ground, except any such vehicles as may be included within
the term “over-sized.”
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Wherever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight savings time as may be in current use in this
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices,
not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   OVER-SIZED MOTOR VEHICLE. Semi-truck (with or without a trailer), truck
(except pickup trucks of not more than one and one-half tons capacity) and fuel
delivery trucks of not more than 4,500 gallons capacity, or bus.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of vehicle, whether occupied or not, other
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Officer of the municipal Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Road or driveway not open to the use of the public
for purpose of vehicular travel.
   RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD. A grouping of one or more homes within the
Residential A Zone, the Residential B Zone, the Mountain Residential Zone, the
Mixed-Use Zone or the Golf Course Residential A Zone.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. 
      (1)   The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
      (2)   A strip of land that, upon development of a property, is dedicated
as “public right-of-way” for streets, sidewalks, utilities and similar public
uses.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel. In the event a highway includes two or more separate
roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SIDEWALK, PUBLIC. The portion of the street right-of-way between the
established roadway and adjacent property line that is set aside for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation of movement.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. Way or place of whatever nature dedicated and open to the
use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of travel and public use.
   THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY. Street or highway or portion thereof at the
entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is
required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop
signs are erected as provided in this act.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, bicycles, vehicles and other conveyances either singly
or together while using any street for purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   VEHICLE. Device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices used exclusively upon
stationery rails or tracks, provided that for purposes of this chapter, a
bicycle shall be deemed a VEHICLE.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC AND TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Records of traffic violations.
      (1)   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of the
traffic ordinances of this city or of the state vehicle laws of which any
person has been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all
such alleged offenses.
      (2)   Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types of
violations and the total of each.
   (B)   Police Department to investigate accidents. It shall be the duty of
the Police Department to investigate traffic accidents, to arrest and to assist
in the prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law causing or
contributing to such accident.
   (C)   Traffic accident reports. The Police Department shall maintain a
suitable system of filing traffic accident reports. Accident reports or cards
referring to them shall be filed alphabetically by location.
   (D)   Drivers files to be maintained. The Police Department shall maintain a
suitable record of all traffic accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions and
complaints reported for each driver.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018)
§ 70.03 POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of the city and all of the state vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in this city.
      (2)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct
all traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided
that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
      (3)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at an emergency, may direct
or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
   (B)   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials. No person shall
willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a
police officer or Fire Department official.
   (C)   Exemptions to authorized emergency vehicles. The provisions of this
chapter regulating the operation and parking of vehicles shall apply to
authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in this chapter, except as follows.
      (1)   A driver, when operating any such vehicle in an emergency, except
when otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
         (a)   Park notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         (c)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does
not endanger life or property; and
         (d)   Be exempt from regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or
property.
      (2)   These exemptions hereinbefore granted in reference to the movement
of an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of said
vehicle sounds audible signals by siren, horn or bell, or emergency lights.
      (3)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of
any such vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of the
safety of others.
   (D)   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles.
      (1)   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle giving visual
and/or audible signals by siren, horn or bell, or emergency lights the driver
of every other vehicle shall immediately drive to a position as near as
possible and parallel to the right-hand edge or curb of the street, clear of
any intersection of streets, and shall stop and remain in such position unless
otherwise directed by a police or traffic officer until the authorized
emergency vehicle shall have passed.
      (2)   This section shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Traffic control devices. The Police Department shall recommend when/
where traffic control signs, signals and devices shall be placed as required
under the traffic ordinances of the city, to the Public Safety Committee. The
driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device applicable thereto unless otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this chapter.
   (B)   Traffic devices required for enforcement purposes. No provision of
this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced against an alleged
violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation an official sign is
not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are
required, such section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or
in place.
   (C)   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings. 
      (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway, any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall public
authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon
any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection
upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
      (2)   Such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   Interferences with official traffic control devices. No person shall,
without the lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface, injure,
knock down or remove any official traffic control device.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit on all streets in the city shall be 25 mph, except as
otherwise specifically posted or provided hereinafter.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle upon any alley or in any municipal
park of the city at a speed in excess of 15 mph.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 INTERSECTIONS; STOPPING, TURNING, OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers.
      (1)   The Police Department shall recommend when/where markers, buttons
or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be
traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law
or ordinance, to the Public Safety Committee.
      (2)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
   (B)   Restricted turn signs. The Police Department shall recommend when/
where those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right,
left or U-turn, to the Public Safety Committee. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in
which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be
removed when such turns are permitted.
   (C)   Obedience to “no turn” signs. Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of any such sign.
   (D)   “U-turns” and traveling on the left side. No vehicle shall cross over
from the right side of the street to the left side, except to enter a premises
with off-street parking or make a turn of over 90 degrees upon any street,
except upon the intersection of one street with another or to enter an alley.
Any such authorized cross over or turn shall be made only after yielding to
oncoming traffic.
   (E)   Authority to erect traffic control and public safety signage. The
Police Department shall recommend, to the Public Safety Committee, when/where
to designate and properly sign locations for parking, traffic control and
public safety. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to fail to
obey any such duly erected sign.
   (F)   Emerging from alley. The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley,
driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto
a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yielding
the right-of-way to all persons using sidewalks and vehicles approaching on
said roadway.
   (G)   Stop when traffic obstructed. No driver shall enter an intersection or
a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating
without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 VEHICLES ON ROADWAY, GENERAL; CROSSWALKS; PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Driving through funeral or other procession. No driver of a vehicle
shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession while they are in motion and when such funeral vehicles are
conspicuously designated.
   (B)   Driving and parking on a public sidewalk and boulevard. See §
70.06(F).
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive or park on any public
sidewalk.
      (2)   Vehicles and trailers of all types, including travel, boat, camping
and hauling, shall not be parked or stored between the back of curb and the
adjacent property line along any substantially improved street.
   (C)   Pedestrians’ right-of-way in crosswalk.
      (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a
crosswalk, no pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety
and walk or run into the path of a vehicle, which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield.
      (2)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 PARKING; OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAGE.
   (A)   The operator/owner of a vehicle shall not stop, stand or park the
vehicle in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal:
      (1)   Within an intersection;
      (2)   On a crosswalk;
      (3)   Within 15 feet of the intersection of curb lines of streets and
alleys;
      (4)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to a fire station;
      (5)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (6)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (7)   On a sidewalk;
      (8)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (9)   Contrary to the signing;
      (10)   Across any painted line or to park vehicle in such a position that
the vehicle shall not be entirely within the parking space designated by such
lines;
      (11)   Alongside or in front of a curb that has been painted yellow;
      (12)   Park on the street side of a vehicle that is already parked on the
side of the road, or park behind a vehicle that is parked in a designated space
in a manner that obstructs traffic, or blocks, or partially blocks, another
vehicle from exiting its parking spot (i.e. double park);
      (13)   Where the city streets or on-street parking area has received more
than two inches of snow and has not been cleared of snow at least 25 feet in
either direction of the vehicle. (The person can either move vehicle prior to
city plowing or they can remove snow onto their property at their own cost/
effort).
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in any city park or parking lot overnight.
On-street parking is allowed, except during scheduled, routine or emergency
maintenance; or during snow removal.
   (C)   All motor vehicles parked within the city on any public road shall be
insured as required in SDCL § 32-35-113, shall have current registration, and
be in operable condition.
   (D)   Position of parking on two-way road, every vehicle stopped or parked
upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels
parallel to and within twelve inches of the righthand curb or edge of the
roadway.
   (E)   Position of parking on one-way road, every vehicle stopped or parked
upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the curb or
edge of the roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic movement, with its
right-hand wheels within twelve inches of the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway, or its left-hand wheels within twelve inches of the left-hand curb or
edge of the roadway.
   (F)   Parking in alleys. No person shall park a vehicle within any alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no
person shall stop or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to
block the driveway entrance to any nearby property.
   (G)   Parking for certain purposes prohibited. No person shall park a
vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
      (2)   Maintaining or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated
by an emergency; or
      (3)   All vehicles parked in a roadway or alleys have to be functioning
and be capable of being moved under their own power.
   (H)   Parking adjacent to schools.
      (1)   The Police Department shall recommend to the Public Safety
Committee, when/where to erect signs indicating no parking upon that side of
any street adjacent to any school property when such parking would interfere
with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
      (2)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon that
side of a street adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a
vehicle in any such designated place.
   (I)   No stopping or parking near hazardous or congested places.
      (1)   The Police Department shall recommend to the Public Safety
Committee, when/where to designate by proper signs, places not exceeding 100
feet in length in which the stopping or parking of vehicles would create an
especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
      (2)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, no person shall stop or park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
   (J)   Parking of oversize vehicles.
      (1)   Commercial or private vehicles or combined vehicle and trailer with
a total payload capacity exceeding five tons, shall not be parked on any public
street, highway or right-of-way for more than 72 hours and shall comply with
all provisions of Title IX - General Regulations, Chapter 95 Nuisances §
95.70 Noise.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to those commercial vehicles
temporarily parked for loading or unloading freight or merchandise; or in an
emergency response.
   (K)   Recreational vehicle/trailer parking.
      (1)   No person shall park and leave standing on any public or private
street, alley or public property any recreational and/or leisure vehicle
including trailers for more than a reasonable amount of time (three weeks)
without written approval of a time extension provided by the Development
Coordinator (aka. Code Enforcement Officer) or Police Dept. For purposes of
this section a "recreational vehicle" means a vehicle for the conveyance and/or
shelter of persons or goods for purposes of leisure-time activities, including
a motor home, travel trailer, van, truck camper, camping trailer, boat, or off-
the-road vehicle.
      (2)   No recreational vehicle or trailer can be parked on any public
street, alley or public property (including right-of-way) between November 1
and March 31. Any non-compliant vehicle or trailer is subject to towing at
owner's expense.
   (L)   Removal of vehicles parking in violation of title. Any motor vehicle,
recreational or leisure vehicle, trailer, or equipment parked in violation of
any provision of this title or in such manner or location as to create a hazard
or obstruction to lawful traffic may be removed at the direction of the Police
Department to any place designated by the Police Department for the storage of
the vehicle. The Police Department will make an attempt to contact the
registered owner, except in the event of emergency.
   (M)   Abandoned vehicles are subject to the provisions of SDCL §§ 32-30-13
to 32-30-18, inclusive, or to Chapters 32-36 for the purposes of being titled
by a removal agency, SDCL § 32-30-12.
(Ord. 1026, passed 11- -2005; Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018; Ord. 1219, passed
11-2-2020) Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.09 PARKING; SNOW REMOVAL, VEHICLE TOWING.
   (A)   Areas for disposal of snow from city snow removal activities may be
designated by the Street Superintendent with the approval of the Mayor or City
Administrator. Such areas will be properly posted with signs to identify these
areas as no parking areas during all snow removal activities.
   (B)   Areas of streets where snow buildup or icing problems occur may be
designated by the Street Superintendent with the approval of the Mayor or City
Administrator as no parking zones during snow removal activities.
   (C)   Vehicles parked in violation of divisions (A) or (B) above shall be
issued a parking violation and may be towed from such no parking zone by order
of the Police Department.
   (D)   Snow removal from driveways or parking lots shall not be deposited
onto any public sidewalk or street except where expressly permitted by the
Street Superintendent.
   (E)   Vehicles parked during or after any snow removal activities causing
hazardous traffic problems, ice build-up or parking problems because of the
inability of the city to properly clean streets may be issued a parking
violation. If vehicles are not removed 24 hours after a parking violation is
issued and continue to be an ice build-up problem, they may be towed by order
of the Police Department.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 LOADING ZONES; AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Police Department to designate curb loading zones. After application
is made to the Police Department, the Police Department shall recommend, to the
Public Safety Committee, when/where to determine the location of curb loading
zones and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable. All costs of signage will be paid by applicant.
   (B)   Authority to impound vehicles.
      (1)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to initiate
removal of a vehicle from a street, alley or parking lot to the nearest garage
or other place of safety or to a garage designated or maintained by the Police
Department or otherwise maintained by this city:
         (a)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct or
causeway, where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
         (b)   When a vehicle upon a street or alley is so disabled as to
constitute an obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the
vehicle are by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to
be unable to provide for its custody or removal; and
         (c)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or alley and
is so parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
      (2)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle as authorized under this
chapter and the officer knows or is able to determine from the registration
records in or on the vehicle the name and address of the owner thereof, such
officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice to such owner of the
fact of such removal and the reasons therefor and of the place to which such
vehicle has been removed.
      (3)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle pursuant to this chapter and
does not know and is not able to determine the name of the owner, or for any
other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as hereinbefore
provided, and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the owner within a
period of three days, then and in that event the officer shall immediately send
or cause to be sent a report of such removal to the Department of Motor
Vehicles in Pierre, South Dakota. Such notice shall include a description of
the vehicle, the date, time and place from which removed, the reasons for such
removal, and the name and address of the place where the vehicle is stored.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE ROUTE OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   Pursuant to SDCL 9-31-2 and 31-8-2 the City Council is hereby
authorized and empowered to designate routes of travel on public streets and
highways within and through the city by resolution or ordinance, and are
empowered to designate routes of travel on public streets and highways within
and through the city for commercial motor carriers over-sized motor vehicles,
trucks and buses, and to require such motor vehicles to follow such designated
routes of travel within and through said city; provided, that such motor
carriers over-sized motor vehicles, trucks and buses may deviate from any
designated route to the extent required to reach a necessary destination within
the city not located thereon not on such designated routes.
   (B)   Any street within the city which is not on a designated route of
travel for over-sized motor vehicles, trucks and buses may be marked with
appropriate signs showing that such motor vehicles are prohibited from
traveling thereon.
   (C)   Any driver of a over-sized motor vehicle, semi-truck (with or without
trailer), truck (except pickup trucks of not more than one and one-half tons
capacity and fuel delivery trucks of not more than 4,500 gallons capacity), or
bus, who shall operate such over-sized motor vehicle, truck or bus on a street
within the city which has been marked with a sign or signs showing that such
motor vehicle is prohibited from traveling thereon, unless such driver has
deviated from a designated route in order to reach a necessary destination
within said city which is not located on a designated route shall be in
violation of this section.
   (D)   (1)   No overnight parking is permitted for any over-sized motor
vehicle, semi-truck (with or without a trailer), truck (except pickup trucks of
not more than one and one-half tons capacity and fuel delivery trucks of not
more than 4,500 gallons capacity), or bus within a residential neighborhood or
within 100 feet of a residence.
      (2)   Any driver who has parked such over-sized motor vehicle within the
parameters of this section shall be in violation of this section.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 PROTECTIVE HELMET REQUIRED FOR MINOR.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age may operate or ride upon a motorcycle
on the public streets or highways of this state unless the person wears a
protective helmet of a type meeting Department of Transportation Motor Vehicle
Safety Standard 218 as in effect on January 1, 1984.
   (B)   No person may operate a motorcycle with any person under the age of 18
as a passenger if the passenger is not wearing a protective helmet.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The full fine schedule is itemized in Title III.
   (B)   Any city ordinance not itemized therein above shall be treated in the
same manner as a Class 2 misdemeanor, except that no violation of a city
ordinance shall contemplate the possibility of a jail sentence.
   (C)   The fines above itemized are only binding upon cases where a power of
attorney is issued by the officer and/or when the appearance is made before a
lay magistrate. State statutes provide that magistrate judges or circuit judges
are not bound by this schedule.
(Ord. 1193, passed 11-5-2018)
CHAPTER 71: BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Applicability
   
71.03   Registration
   
71.04   General bike, skateboards, scooters and rollerblades regulations
   
71.05   Skateboards, scooters and rollerblades
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. A vehicle consisting of a light frame mounted on two wire-spoked
wheels one behind the other and having a seat, handlebars for steering, brakes
and is propelled with hand cranks or foot pedals. The term shall also include
three-wheeled bicycles.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel. In the event a highway includes two or more separate
roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SKATEBOARD, SCOOTER, ROLLERBLADE OR OTHER WHEELED DEVICE. Such definition
shall include any item commonly known as and associated with the terms
skateboard, scooter, rollerblade, roller skates or similar item.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. Every way or place of whatever nature dedicated and open
to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of travel and
public use.
(Prior Code, § 5-A-01)
§ 71.02 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply whenever any bicycle is operated
upon any street or highway or upon any path or trail within the city, subject
to those exceptions stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-A-02)
§ 71.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Bicycle registration.
      (1)   Every owner of a bicycle who is a resident of the city may register
with the Police Department name, address, serial number, make, style and
general description of the bicycle.
      (2)   No person who resides in the city shall ride or propel a bicycle on
any street or any public path or trail unless the bicycle has been registered
in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Mechanical condition.
      (1)   The Police Department shall have authority to inspect all bicycles
for mechanical fitness prior to registration.
      (2)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
which shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear
when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may
be used in addition to the red reflector.
      (3)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 5-A-03) (Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 GENERAL BIKE, SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS AND ROLLERBLADES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles. Every person riding a
bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject
to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this
state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by the traffic
ordinances of this city applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this chapter and except as to those provisions of law
and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
   (B)   Obedience to traffic control devices.
      (1)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of
official traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
      (2)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or
left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
   (C)   Riding on bicycles.
      (1)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      (2)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designated and equipped.
      (3)   Bicycle riders under the age of 16 shall be required to wear a
safety helmet.
   (D)   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths.
      (1)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near
to the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
      (2)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast.
      (3)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
   (E)   Speed. No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (F)   Emerging from alley or driveway. The operator of a bicycle emerging
from an alley, driveway or building, shall upon approaching a sidewalk or the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering
the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said
roadway.
   (G)   Cling to vehicles. No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach the
same or himself or herself to, or otherwise cling to, any vehicle upon any
street or roadway.
   (H)   Carrying articles. No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one
hand upon the handle bars.
   (I)   Parking. No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon
the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the
bicycle or against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford the
least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
   (J)   Riding or skating on sidewalks. 
      (1)   No person shall ride a bicycle, skateboard, scooter, rollerblade or
similar recreational-use wheeled devices, except wheelchairs or personal
mobility scooters, upon a sidewalk within a business district.
      (2)   The Police Department is authorized to determine the placement of
signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles,
skateboards, scooters and rollerblades thereon by any person and when such
signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
      (3)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such
person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible
signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
   (K)   Parents and guardians not to authorize or permit chapter violations.
The parent of any child or the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-A-04) (Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS AND ROLLERBLADES.
   (A)   Skating on sidewalks.
      (1)   No person shall ride a skateboard, scooter, rollerblade or similar
wheeled device upon any sidewalk within a business district.
      (2)   The Police Department is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk
or roadway prohibiting the riding of skateboards, scooters, rollerblades or
similar wheeled devices and when such signs are in place, no person shall
disobey the same.
      (3)   Whenever any person is riding a skateboard, scooter, rollerblade or
similar wheeled device upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-
way to any pedestrian and shall give ample warning before overtaking and
passing such pedestrian.
   (B)   Skating at night; equipment required.
      (1)   The rider of any skateboard, scooter, rollerblades or similar
wheeled device who is under the age of 16 shall be required to wear a safety
helmet.
      (2)   The rider of any skateboard, scooter, rollerblades or similar
wheeled device who is under the age of 16 shall be required to wear reflective
clothing or approved lighting device when operating said skateboard scooter,
rollerblade or similar wheeled device after dark.
   (C)   Clinging to vehicles. No person riding upon any skateboard, scooter,
rollerblades or similar wheeled device shall attach the same or himself or
herself, or cling, to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   (D)   Helmets required. The rider of any skateboard, scooter, rollerblades
or similar wheeled device shall be required to wear a safety helmet when
utilizing the city’s skateboard park.
(Prior Code, § 5-A-05) (Ord. 1128, passed 4-9-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: WAYFINDING
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Eligible destinations
   
72.03   Sign code inapplicable
   
72.04   Additional requirements
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY WAYFINDING SIGN. An off-premise guide sign that is part of a city
coordinated and continuous system of signs meant to direct vehicular and
pedestrian traffic to key civic, cultural, visitor, and recreational
attractions.
   MUTCD. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways, published by the Federal Highway Administration.
   PRIVATE SIGN. A type of city wayfinding sign where the destination is a
private, non-governmental facility.
   WAYFINDING PLAN. The wayfinding signage plan approved by the City of Hot
Springs Council, which may be reviewed and amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1246, passed 1-17-2023; Ord. 1257, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 72.02 ELIGIBLE DESTINATIONS.
   The Master Wayfinding and Sign Policy originally approved by Council and
updated as necessary, shall be used to determine eligible destinations for
wayfinding signs.
(Ord. 1246, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 72.03 SIGN CODE INAPPLICABLE.
   City wayfinding signs constitute traffic control devices and shall be exempt
from the provisions of §
155.051.
(Ord. 1246, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 72.04 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the requirements set forth in this chapter, all city
wayfinding signs must comply with the requirements and restrictions enumerated
in the agreement entered between the city and the South Dakota Department of
Transportation, a copy of which is available at the city’s Finance Department.
(Ord. 1246, passed 1-17-2023)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
         
91.   CEMETERY
         
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
95.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Enforcement and administration
   
90.04   Animal shelter; keeping of animals
   
90.05   Cruelty to animals; killing of animals
   
90.06   Feeding of wild animals prohibited
   
90.07   Dangerous or vicious animals; rabies
   
90.08   Fees, licenses; remedies
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals restricted in park or recreation areas, public sidewalks or streets,
see §
92.17
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the general health, safety and
welfare, of the citizens of the city by establishing regulations regarding the
keeping of animals within the corporate limits of the city, and establishing
remedies to abate nuisances caused or created by animals or their masters. This
chapter also establishes rules regarding the feeding or killing of wild animals
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-A-01) (Ord. 1126, passed 2–12-2013)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, fish, vertebrate creature,
domestic or wild, except humans.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any police officer or other person employed by the
City Council or as a contractor with the city, to enforce this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by action of the city for the
purpose of impounding and caring for animals.
   AT LARGE. Any animal which is off the property of its owner and not under
control of a competent person.
   BITE. The grasping or tearing of clothing, any abrasion, scratch, puncture,
laceration, bruise or piercing of the skin inflicted by the teeth of an animal.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the city right-of-way which abuts the adjoining
real property which is not utilized as an improved street, of which the
maintenance is the responsibility of said adjoining property owner.
   CONTROL. An animal is under control within the meaning of this chapter if it
is restrained by a leash, cord or chain not over eight feet in length, or if it
is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal that has been exposed to rabies within the
meaning of this chapter, if it has been bitten by, or been exposed to, any
animal known to be or suspected of being infected with rabies.
   HABITUALLY RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal that has been impounded in the city
animal shelter or a warning or citation issued to the owner more than three
times in any 12-month period and is found running at large shall be considered
to be habitually running at large within the city.
   HARBOR, HARBORED or HARBORING. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if
it is fed or sheltered for three or more consecutive days.
   KENNEL (to include the term CATTERY). Any one lot, building, structure,
enclosure or premises where more than three dogs, cats or other household
animals over the age of six months are kept shall be considered a commercial
kennel operation.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity owning,
harboring or keeping any animal, or in the case of a minor under the age of 14,
that person’s parent or legal guardian.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. Any dog that is individually trained to do work or perform
tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including a physical,
sensory, psychiatric, intellectual or other mental disability. Other species of
animals, whether wild or domestic, trained or untrained, are not SERVICE
ANIMALS for the purposes of this definition.
(Prior Code, § 4-A-02) (Ord. 1126, passed 2–12-2013)
§ 90.03 ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Enforcement of chapter generally; functions of Animal Control Officer.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Police
Department and the Animal Control Officer, who shall be supervised and assisted
in the performance of his or her duties by the Police Department.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer shall perform the professional services
required in the care, treatment or destruction of animals being handled under
this chapter.
   (B)   Right of entry to enforce chapter.
      (1)   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter
and to enforce its provisions, the Animal Control Officer, or any police
officer is empowered to enter upon any premises upon which any animal is kept
in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal and
to take possession of such animal, when in his or her opinion, it requires
humane treatment, and to demand the exhibition by the owner of the animal
license if applicable as required by this chapter.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer or any member of the Police Department
is hereby authorized and empowered to follow and enter upon any enclosure or
lot within the corporate limits of the city in quest of any animal suspected of
being affected by rabies, or to apprehend any animal which he or she has
observed to be running at large in violation of this chapter.
      (3)   If an animal is in violation of a provision of this chapter and is
found on the animal owner’s private property, the police officer, Animal
Control Officer or other person hired by the city shall give or attempt to give
notice to the animal’s owner of the violation before catching, retrieving or
impounding the animal. If the owner of the animal is not available and it is
not possible to give the animal’s owner notice, the police officer, Animal
Control Officer or person hired by the city shall be entitled to enter the
private property of the animal’s owner to catch or retrieve the animal and the
animal shall be impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and a
uniform citation issued and delivered to the owner of the animal as soon
thereafter as is possible and reasonable.
   (C)   Animal defecation in public places.
      (1)   It shall be illegal and punishable by fine for any owner of any
animal, whether under the owner’s control or not, to allow such animal to
defecate on or in any of the following public places:
         (a)   Any area within a public park or playground;
         (b)   Any public sidewalk;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of the Freedom Trail;
         (d)   All of Evergreen Cemetery; and
         (e)   Any boulevard other than the particular boulevard adjoining that
animal owner’s personal and private property.
      (2)   Any person accompanied by an animal on public or private property
other than his or her own property must carry with him or her a visible means
of cleaning up fecal matter left by the animal. Service animals and animals in
parades are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Records of Animal Control Officer. It shall be the duty of the Animal
Control Officer to keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of
the licensing, impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into his or
her custody. It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to keep, or
cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of all bite cases reported to
him or her under this chapter and his or her investigation of the same.
(Prior Code, § 4-A-03) (Ord. 1126, passed 2–12-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ANIMAL SHELTER; KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Animal shelter generally. The city shall provide a suitable shelter
for the impounding of animals. Such shelter shall be so constructed that
animals of different kinds and of different sizes and sexes may be segregated,
and shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. Such shelter may
either be constructed and/or operated by the city or the city may enter into a
contract with a veterinarian or other suitable person for the supplying and
operation of the same. All animals confined in such shelter shall be regularly
fed and watered and treated in a humane manner.
   (B)   Keeping of animals.
      (1)   No horse, cow, mule, sheep, goat, swine, flocks of rabbits or
domestic fowl shall be kept, picketed, maintained, enclosed or housed in any
house, barn, pen or enclosure within the city except as provided below.
         (a)   Horses may be kept as provided in the city’s zoning ordinance.
         (b)   Chickens may be kept within the city as an accessory use for the
purpose of having private laying hens provided there are not more than a total
of six such chickens and a proper chicken coop and fenced chicken yard is
provided for proper containment, and provided that the following provisions are
complied with.
            1.   Any owner or keeper of chickens within the city shall register
said chickens with the Animal Control Officer on a form provided by the city
within ten days of obtaining such chickens.
            2.   Said chickens, and the number thereof, shall be re-registered
with the Animal Control Officer every two years.
            3.   The registration of such chickens shall include a registration
fee in an amount as set forth by the City Council from time to time.
Registration shall not be considered complete until the registration fee is
paid and the receipt issued to the registrant.
            4.   The keeping of chickens shall not create a nuisance or
disturbance of the peace. Substantiated complaints from the neighborhood shall
constitute a violation of division (C) below and shall be subject to citation
and fines established in §
90.99.
            5.   Upon any three violations where a citation has been issued,
the accessory use shall be terminated upon written notice by the Animal Control
Officer.
            6.   In no case shall a rooster be permitted to be kept within the
corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a kennel on
any residential property except where expressly allowed or permitted by the
city.
   (C)   Noisy animals. It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep
any animal which disturbs the peace by barking or other loud noises at anytime
of the day or night.
(Prior Code, § 4-A-04) (Ord. 1126, passed 2–12-2013; Ord. 1183, passed 11-20-
2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; KILLING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals. No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the
city in any way. Any person who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, overloads or
abandons any animal shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
   (B)   Teasing, molesting, animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, molest, bait or in
any way bother any animal not belonging to him or her or not legally under his
or her control.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any animal under his
or her control to tease, molest or harass any other animal within the city.
   (C)   Killing, injuring or poisoning animals or fowl.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and maliciously
kill, wound or injure any animal or fowl, the property of another, or to
willfully and maliciously administer poison to any such animal or fowl, the
property of another.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to the following situations:
         (a)   Authorized by the City Council. The City Council may authorize
the killing of animals or fowl for a purpose determined to be necessary by the
City Council. The City Council may determine the humane means of carrying out
the City Council’s authorization; or
         (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to any
governmental agency or to any employee or authorized agent thereof in the
course of his or her employment or agency who in the course of their duties
kills an animal or fowl pursuant to the authorization of the City Council.
   (D)   Fights between animals. No person shall allow any fight between any
animals, in the city; nor shall any person keep any house, pit or other place
to be used in permitting any fight between animals.
(Prior Code, § 4-A-05) (Ord. 1059, passed 1- -2008; Ord. 1126, passed 2–12-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 FEEDING OF WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition. The City Council finds that the feeding of wild animals
by placing grain, fruit, vegetables, nuts, hay, salt, mineral or other edible
material, upon real property for the purpose of attracting wild animals to eat
such food source has the effect of enticing wild animals from their natural
habitat into an unnatural urban environment, thereby endangering the wild
animals, resulting in an unnatural growth of the wild animal population,
resulting in an unnatural loss of the wild animal’s instinctive avoidance of
humans, resulting in reliance of the wild animals upon such food source, and
also endangering persons and domestic animals, and resulting in damage to
property. No person shall feed or allow the feeding of wild animals in city
limits.
   (B)   Evidence; presumptions.
      (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that the following acts are
for the purpose of feeding wild animals:
         (a)   The placement of one-half cubic foot or more of grain, fruit,
vegetables, nuts, hay, salt, mineral or other edible material, either on the
ground or at a height of less than five feet above the ground; and
         (b)   The placement of grain, fruit, vegetables, nuts, hay, salt,
mineral or other edible material in an aggregate quantity of greater than one-
half cubic foot in a drop feeder, automatic feeder or similar device regardless
of the height of the grain, fruit or vegetable material.
      (2)   It shall be an affirmative defense to any prosecution hereunder
that the placement of grain, mineral, fruit, plant, salt, vegetable or other
material in an aggregate quantity of greater than one-half cubic foot or more
was placed not less than five feet above the ground and was not accessible to
wild animals, or that the unnatural food source was placed in good faith for
the purpose of feeding animals, except those animals prohibited in §
90.04(B) and division (A) above, by or at the request of a person owning or
having responsibility for such animals, or that the unnatural food source was
placed in good faith for a purpose other than attracting deer or other wildlife
and that the attraction of wild animals is only an incidental result.
   (C)   Removal.
      (1)   Each property owner shall have the duty to remove any device placed
on the owner’s property to which wild animals are attracted or from which wild
animals actually feed. Alternatively, a property owner may modify such a device
or make other changes to the property that prevents wild animals from having
access to or feeding from the device.
      (2)   Failure to remove such a device or to make such modifications
within 24 hours after notice from the city shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Application. This chapter shall not apply to the following situations:
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to any
governmental agency or to any employee or authorized agent thereof in the
course of his or her employment or agency who in the course of his or her
duties have wild animals in their custody or under their management;
      (2)   Naturally growing materials. Naturally growing grain, fruit or
vegetable material, including gardens and residue from lawns, gardens and other
vegetable materials maintained as a mulch pile;
      (3)   Bird feeders. Unmodified commercially purchased bird feeders or
their equivalent; or
      (4)   Authorized by the City Council. The feeding of wild animals may be
authorized on a temporary basis by the City Council for a specific public
purpose as determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-A-06) (Ord. 1126, passed 2–12-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS; RABIES.
   (A)   Animals to be kept under restraint. No person being the owner of any
animal shall fail to keep such animal securely confined upon his or her own
property or premises, except when under the control of a competent person 14
years of age or older.
   (B)   Nuisances. Any animal within the city which habitually barks, yowls,
chases or annoys animals, vehicles or persons, or which damages or destroys
property or habitually runs at large, is hereby declared a nuisance, and the
Animal Control Officer or any police officer may proceed to abate such nuisance
as set forth in division (C)(2) below.
   (C)   Confinement of biting dogs or cats.
      (1)   Any animal which has ever bitten or scratched any person or animal
so as to break the skin, to the knowledge of the person owning, keeping, having
charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking care of such animal, must
be kept in a secure kennel with either concrete floor or chain link fence
buried at least 20 inches underground with a covered roof, or be accompanied by
a person at least 14 years of age who, by means of a leash, has such animal
firmly under control at all times.
      (2)   The owner or keeper of any animal which has been declared a
nuisance or having bitten, attacked, assaulted or assisted in causing a serious
bodily injury to a person, shall pay a fine in an amount as set by the City
Council from time to time and a law enforcement officer or animal control
officer is empowered to impound the animal at their discretion. However, If the
animal cannot be captured without undue risk to the safety of the public, law
enforcement, or an animal control officer, it may be immediately euthanized in
a manner whereby the head is not damaged.
         (a)   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY is defined as bodily injury that involves
a substantial risk of death, unconsciousness, extreme physical pain, protracted
and obvious disfigurement, or protracted loss or impairment of the function of
a bodily member, organ or mental faculty.
         (b)   An animal that causes a serious bodily injury to a person may be
humanely euthanized by a licensed veterinarian after the expiration of a five-
day waiting period, exclusive of Sundays and holidays, unless:
            1.   The animal was being used to protect persons or property and
the attack occurred in a properly marked enclosure that is designed to prevent
the animal’s escape, and the injured person was trespassing within said
enclosure;
            2.   The animal was not being used to protect persons or property;
however, the attack occurred in an enclosure designed to prevent the animal’s
escape;
            3.   The animal was being used for law enforcement purposes and the
attack occurred during an arrest or other law enforcement purpose; and
            4.   The attack occurred while the animal was defending a person
from an assault or in the protection of property from damage or theft.
         (c)   Prior to humanely euthanizing said animal by a licensed
veterinarian, the city shall provide at least three days’ prior verbal notice
to the animal’s owner, who shall then have the right to request a hearing in
Magistrate Court to show cause why said animal should not be humanely
euthanized by a licensed veterinarian as a dangerous animal. The animal’s owner
shall make a written request for a hearing, which can be filed at either the
Police Department or City Hall. Once a written request has been made, the
County Court Clerk should be notified and a hearing be scheduled at the next
Magistrate Court date. If such a request is filed, the city shall take no
further action to said animal until after the hearing, except in an emergency
to protect public safety. The Judge may either confirm the proposed action by
the city or make any other appropriate order regarding said animal. If the
Judge confirms the proposed action by the city, the animal will be humanely
euthanized by a licensed veterinarian with the full cost of euthanasia to be
paid by the owner of the animal.
   (D)   Confinement of female dog or cat in heat. Every female dog or cat in
heat shall be kept confined in a building or secure enclosure, or in a
veterinary hospital, or boarding kennel, in such manner that such female dog or
cat cannot come into contact with another like animal, except for breeding
purposes as intended by the owner.
   (E)   Animals at large, dangerous or vicious animals, humane euthanasia.
      (1)   In accordance with SDCL § 40-34-14, this chapter defines a VICIOUS
DOG as:
         (a)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, in a vicious or terrorizing
manner approaches a person in apparent attitude of attack, or the dog bites,
inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks a person upon the streets,
sidewalks or any public grounds or places within the city limits; and/or
         (b)   Any dog which, on private property, when unprovoked, in a
vicious or terrifying manner approaches a person in an apparent attitude of
attack, or the dog bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks a
mailman, meter reader, serviceman, journeyman, delivery man or other employed
person who is on private property with expressed or implied permission of the
owner or occupant of such property or a person who is on private property with
permission from the owner to be on said property or by a clear recognizable
pattern of dealings between the parties and the private property.
      (2)   In accordance to SDCL § 40-34-15, no dog may be declared vicious if
an injury or damage is sustained to any person who was committing a willful
trespass or other tort upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the
dog, or who was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or was
committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to permit any animal
to run at large within the limits of the city, whether the animal is licensed
or unlicensed.
      (4)   If any animal attacks or attempts to attack any person or any other
animal while such animal is at large or under the control of another person,
then such animal shall be conclusively presumed to be a dangerous animal or an
animal of dangerous propensities and tendencies. Attack or attempting to attack
shall include biting or attempting to bite.
      (5)   Any dangerous or vicious animal, or an animal having dangerous or
vicious propensities and tendencies, found at large after the owner thereof has
previous knowledge or notice that such animal is dangerous or vicious, or has
dangerous or vicious propensities and tendencies, may be humanely euthanized by
a licensed veterinarian as set forth in division (C)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 4-A-07) (Ord. 973, passed 7- -2001; Ord. 1126, passed 2–12-2013;
Ord. 1183, passed 11-20-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 FEES, LICENSES; REMEDIES.
   (A)   Same redemption or other disposition; fees.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions of division (A)(3) below, the owner shall
be entitled to regain possession of any animal impounded under §
90.07 upon compliance with the vaccination and licensing provisions contained
in this chapter, and upon payment of the fees and charges provided for in
division (A)(2) below. Any other animal impounded under the provisions of §
90.07 may be reclaimed by the owner upon payment of the fees and charges
provided for in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   Any animal impounded under §
90.07 may be reclaimed as provided for in this section upon payment by the
owner of the impoundment fee for each animal reclaimed, any charges for
veterinarian services rendered, and any additional sum for each day each animal
has been kept in the animal shelter. The Animal Control Officer may destroy any
sick or injured animal which has been impounded without holding it for three
days, if its condition is such as to make its earlier destruction necessary or
desirable. All animals destroyed under this section shall be destroyed by a
humane procedure.
      (3)   Any animal impounded under §
90.07 and not reclaimed by its owner within three days may be humanely
destroyed by the Animal Control Officer or sold. A fee set by resolution of the
City Council shall be charged. The Animal Control Officer may destroy any sick
or injured animal which has been impounded without holding it for three days,
if its condition is such as to make its earlier destruction necessary or
desirable. All animals destroyed under this section shall be destroyed by a
humane procedure.
   (B)   Rabies vaccination for dogs and cats. No animal shall be kept or
harbored within the city limits without having a current rabies vaccine
designated for the species by the United States Department of Agriculture and
recommended in the current Compendium of Animal Rabies Vaccines prepared by the
National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians. Such vaccination
shall be administered by or under the supervision of a qualified veterinarian.
   (C)   Dog and cat licenses, required; exceptions.
      (1)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat within the city
limits, unless a current license has been issued for such dog or cat in
accordance with this chapter. This section shall not apply to any dog or cat
belonging to a nonresident of the city and kept within the city for not longer
than 30 days; provided all such dogs and cats shall, at all times while in the
city, be kept within a building, enclosure or vehicle, or be under restraint by
the owner.
      (2)   Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed
veterinarians for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   Application. Written application for the license required by this
chapter shall be made to the City Finance Department, or such agents as shall
be designated by the City Finance Department. Such application shall state the
name and address of the owner and the name, breed, color and sex of the dog or
cat.
   (E)   Rabies vaccination prerequisite to issuance. No application for a dog
license or cat license shall be accepted, nor shall any such license be issued,
until the applicant has produced satisfactory evidence that the dog or cat for
which the license is to be issued has been vaccinated for rabies pursuant to
division (B) above.
   (F)   Fee; issuance of receipt.
      (1)   The applicant shall at the time of making such application present
to the City Finance Department or the city animal shelter a certificate showing
compliance with division (B) above, and pay as an annual license fee the sum of
an amount as set by the City Council from time to time for each animal for
which such license is sought. It shall be the duty of the City Finance
Department or city animal control shelter at the time of issuance of the
license herein provided for, to furnish and deliver to said applicant a
metallic animal tag for each animal for which such license is issued, upon
which tag shall be stamped or engraved the registered number of the animal and
the year when the animal was registered, and it shall then be the duty of the
owner of said animal to place a collar around the neck of such animal owned or
kept by him or her, on which collar shall be securely fastened the metallic tag
so furnished by the City Finance Department or city animal control shelter;
provided, that in the case of the loss of any tag so issued, the City Finance
Department only is authorized to issue a duplicate thereof upon payment to him
or her of the actual cost of the same upon application being made therefor, and
upon satisfactory proof that such tag has been lost.
      (2)   If the animal is less than six months old for which the applicant
is making application for an animal license, he or she shall not be required to
present a certificate showing that said animal has been inoculated against
rabies, but shall pay a license fee in an amount as set by the City Council
from time to time for such animal for which a license is sought. Thereupon, the
City Finance Department shall furnish and deliver to the applicant a special
metallic animal tag, and it shall then be the duty of the owner of said animal
to place a collar around the neck of such animal and securely fasten to such
collar said special metallic animal tag. When such animal reaches the age of
six months, the owner or keeper thereof shall be required to obtain a regular
animal license as hereinbefore provided and shall receive credit in an amount
as set by the City Council from time to time toward the license fee.
   (G)   Term. All dog and cat licenses shall be issued for one calendar year
from January 1 through December 31.
   (H)   Transfer. If there is a change of ownership of a dog or cat during the
license year, the new owner may have the current license transferred to his or
her name upon application to the City Finance Department.
   (I)   Unlawful use of receipt, tag or evidence of vaccination. No person
shall use, for any dog or cat, a license receipt or license tag, or evidence of
vaccination for rabies issued for any other dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 4-A-08) (Ord. 1126, passed 2–12-2013; Ord. 1208, passed 3-16-
2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fines.
      (1)   The fine schedule shall be set by resolution by the City Council.
      (2)   Fines for offenses under this chapter shall be a maximum fine of an
amount as set by the City Council from time to time.
   (B)   Interference with enforcement of chapter. No person shall interfere
with, hinder, molest or oppose, or resist any police officer or the Animal
Control Officer in the performance of any duty under this chapter, or seek to
release any animal in the custody of the Animal Control Officer, except as
provided in this chapter. Conviction of an offense under this chapter shall be
in accordance with §
10.99, in addition to a possible maximum fine of up to an amount as set by the
City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 4-A-09) (Ord. 1126, passed 2–12-2013)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERY
Section
   
91.01   City cemetery established
   
91.02   Cemetery Committee
   
91.03   Superintendent of cemetery
   
91.04   Duties of Superintendent of cemetery
   
91.05   Designation of portions to be platted; determination of prices and
conditions for sale of lots
   
91.06   Conveyance of lots
   
91.07   Rules and regulations
   
91.08   Grave open/close, installations of burial vaults, markers and monuments
all under the supervision of Cemetery Superintendent
   
91.09   License required for cemetery contractors
   
91.10   Application for a cemetery contractor’s license
   
91.11   Renewal of licenses
   
91.12   Revocation of license
   
91.13   Bond required for contractors
   
91.14   Appeals
§ 91.01 CITY CEMETERY ESTABLISHED.
   Evergreen Cemetery is hereby designated a City Cemetery and shall be
maintained forever for the burial of the dead.
(Prior Code, § 7-01) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000)
§ 91.02 CEMETERY COMMITTEE.
   The Cemetery Committee shall consist of five members, appointed by the Mayor
and confirmed by the City Council. One of such members shall be appointed for
one year, one for two years, one for three years, one for four years and one
for five years, and annually thereafter re-appointments or new appointments
shall be for a term of five years or to complete an unexpired term of five
years. Such Cemetery Committee shall make recommendations to the City Council
regarding rules and regulations for the operation of “Evergreen Cemetery”
consistent with law.
(Prior Code, § 7-02) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1253, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.03 SUPERINTENDENT OF CEMETERY.
   A Superintendent of Cemetery may be hired by the Maintenance Superintendent
with the approval of the Cemetery Committee and the City Council. City Council
may contract for the services to be otherwise provided by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 7-03) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1253, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.04 DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT OF CEMETERY.
   The Superintendent shall be responsible for the general supervision and care
of the cemetery. He or she shall cause to be dug any graves for which proper
permit has been previously delivered to City Hall. Grave diggers shall be
responsible to the Superintendent. A Superintendent may require additional
notice when the ground is frozen. He or she shall have charge of all
disinterments and shall perform such other duties as directed by rule or action
of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-04) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1253, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.05 DESIGNATION OF PORTIONS TO BE PLATTED; DETERMINATION OF PRICES AND
CONDITIONS FOR SALE OF LOTS.
   (A)   The Council shall determine the portions of the cemetery to be platted
and laid out and the prices for which the lots and parcels are to be sold and
the limitations and conditions under which such sales are to be made.
   (B)   Until otherwise changed by resolution of the Council, grave lot
charges shall be as follows.
      (1)   Adult graves (single interment): in an amount as set by the City
Council from time to time.
      (2)   Adult graves (double interment in single grave unit): in an amount
as set by the City Council from time to time.
      (3)   All infant graves shall be sold on a basis of an amount as set by
the City Council from time to time. Infant graves in Section 0 of the cemetery
shall be exempt from any charges retroactive to January 1, 1998.
(Prior Code, § 7-05) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1019, passed 5- -2005;
Ord. 1091, passed 5- -2010; Res. 2015-38, passed - -2015)
§ 91.06 CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The Finance Officer shall upon payment in full for a lot, deliver to the
purchaser thereof a proper conveyance executed by the Mayor and attested by the
Finance Officer under the seal of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-06) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000)
§ 91.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Rules and regulations shall apply to the cemetery operation as follows.
   (A)   Only one adult body shall be permitted in a single interment adult
grave except in the case of a mother and her infant in which case special
permission must be obtained from the Superintendent. Up to six cremains
containers shall be permitted in an adult grave and each cremains shall be
buried in a cremains vault and marked with a ground level marker. The first two
cremains vaults will be placed at the head of the plot, with subsequent vaults
proceeding to the foot. Cremains to be placed above ground shall be sealed in
an all-weather vault approved by the Superintendent.
   (B)   No disinterment shall be permitted except by proper authority.
   (C)   Adult graves shall be located at least six inches within the lot
boundaries and shall be dug nine feet deep for the first of a double interment
in a single grave unit and five and one-half to six feet for all single
interments of adults or infants. DOUBLE INTERMENT IN A SINGLE GRAVE UNIT means
two individual casket burials in one grave unit; one above the other. The grade
established shall be on the level with the surrounding or adjoining graves and
compliance with the grade of all lots shall be as determined by the
Superintendent.
   (D)   No sale, assignment or transfer of a lot shall be valid without the
consent of the city, endorsed upon such sale, transfer or assignment, and
entered on record by the city. The city shall have the option of repurchasing a
lot offered for sale at the price then being charged for similar lots.
   (E)   No person shall place papers, decayed flowers or any rubbish on any
lot, grave, roadway or cemetery ground.
   (F)   No planting of any tree, bush, shrub or plant is allowed upon grave
units, lots or in alleyways. As existing plantings located on grave units, lots
or in alleyways die, they shall not be replaced. Certain varieties of trees may
be donated as living memorials, if approved by the Cemetery Superintendent as
to location prior to planting.
   (G)   The Superintendent shall remove any unsightly tree, shrub or object in
the cemetery.
   (H)   Fences, hedges, curbs and walks around or on grave units or around
lots are prohibited.
   (I)   All memorials and markers placed on any grave require prior approval
of the Superintendent in accordance with division (A) above.
   (J)    All persons are welcome to visit the cemetery while the gates are
open. Hours during the summer shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.; and during
the winter shall be from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
   (K)   Floral arrangements and ornaments shall not be permitted on any grave
or lot except from April 1 through October 31, and on Christmas, Thanksgiving,
Easter and the decedent’s birthday. Floral arrangements shall be placed in
approved metal vases permanently fixed in the ground or in collapsible vases
fitted flush with the ground. No glass jars or tin containers shall be
permitted. Any floral arrangement shall be removed when it is wilted and no
longer fresh looking. Ornaments shall not be placed so as to interfere with
mowing. Ornaments shall have prior approval by the Superintendent.
   (L)   Funerals shall not be permitted on Memorial Day, Sundays or legal
holidays unless special permission is obtained from the Cemetery
Superintendent.
   (M)   No person shall be buried in the cemetery unless the casket is
enclosed in a concrete, steel, fiberglass or equally hard material container.
Said container shall have a minimum of 40 inches of soil covering.
   (N)   The city may repair any lot found to be so un-cared for as to be
unsightly and shall not be liable to the lot owner for any damage done thereby
unless such damage is caused by willful bad acts by the city.
   (O)   Markers and monuments.
      (1)   The cemetery will not allow the use of ledgers, grave markers,
surface mausoleums or surface vaults with covers, allowing an exception only to
match existing grave covers or markers already paid for.
      (2)   Grave markers must be placed on the lot to be read from the
walkway.
      (3)   Foot markers set with a grave marker must be put at ground level.
      (4)   The foundations for monuments or markers may not exceed the
boundaries of the owners’ legal description of the grave space or spaces.
      (5)   Vases will be allowed to be placed in front, on the side, or on the
base of the monument.
      (6)   Monuments are not city property. Maintenance and vandalism are the
owners’ responsibility.
      (7)   Native rock will be allowed to be used as markers; however, native
rock must be the approximate size as other monuments or markers.
      (8)   The use of corner markers with the letter of the last name must be
set at ground level.
      (9)   Rock or concrete walls will not be allowed to mark the boundaries
of lots or grave spaces.
   (P)   Temporary markers shall be placed in concrete flush with the ground
within one year from the date of burial, unless replaced with a permanent grave
marker.
(Prior Code, § 7-07) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 982, passed 5- -2002;
Ord. 1034, passed 6- -2006; Ord. 1177, passed 3- -2017; Ord. 1253, passed 2-5-
2024)
§ 91.08 GRAVE OPEN/CLOSE, INSTALLATIONS OF BURIAL VAULTS, MARKERS AND MONUMENTS
ALL UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The opening/closing of all graves shall be done only by city-approved
contractors and shall be under the supervision of the Superintendent with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Cemetery Superintendent must be provided legal description of the
lot to be opened by the funeral home or responsible party.
      (2)   No grave opening shall take place until all fees for cemetery lot
and any applicable fees to the city have been paid.
      (3)   Cemetery Superintendent will mark all graves/internment sites.
      (4)   Contractor/digger will excavate according to superintendent ground
markings.
      (5)   Contractor/digger will open ground within a timely manner.
      (5)   Contractor/digger will close ground after the funeral and after
attendees have left the burial site.
      (6)   Dirt must be compacted and grave site must be completely cleaned
up.
      (7)   A final inspection will be completed by Superintendent, who may
require contractor/digger fix any issues/damage to the grave or surrounding
terrain.
      (8)   On occasion contractor/digger may be required to move headstones to
gain access to grave sites.
   (B)   The installation or erection of any burial vault, grave marker or
grave monument in Evergreen Cemetery shall be under the supervision of the
Superintendent as follows.
      (1)   All monuments or markers must have foundations except for ground
level markers.
      (2)   All monuments or markers must be set and placed with the use of
survey stakes to ensure that the monuments or markers are in line with the
others.
      (3)   Monuments setters and salespeople must contact the Superintendent
or a cemetery employee in order to find the survey stakes so flags can be place
to align the monument or marker properly.
      (4)   The vehicles of monument setters are not allowed on the grass while
setting the monument or marker without prior permission from the
Superintendent.
      (5)   Any damage done to the cemetery by contractors or monument
companies will be repaired by contractors or if repaired by the city, will be
charged to the contractor or monument company.
      (6)   Monuments must be set and placed level unless the terrain dictates
otherwise.
      (7)   Any monument or marker that is set and placed improperly is the
responsibility of the monument company to correct.
      (8)   The city is not responsible for errors on monuments, i.e., placed
and faced wrong, paneled the opposite direction and the like.
(Prior Code, § 7-08) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1091, passed 5- -2010;
Ord. 1253, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.09 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR CEMETERY CONTRACTORS.
   No person or company shall open/close graves, install or erect any burial
vault, grave marker or grave monument in Evergreen Cemetery without a valid
city cemetery contractor’s license.
(Prior Code, § 7-09) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1253, passed 2-5-2024)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.10 APPLICATION FOR A CEMETERY CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE.
   Application forms for a cemetery contractor’s license may be obtained from
City Hall. The fee shall be in an amount as set by the City Council from time
to time per year and will expire December 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 7-10) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1253, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.11 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Licenses may be renewed each year between January 1 and March 1 by paying a
fee in an amount as set by the City Council from time to time and meeting the
bond requirements.
(Prior Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000)
§ 91.12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council may, upon notice of hearing, revoke any cemetery
contractor’s license upon finding that the holder of such license willfully
violated any statute, ordinance, rule or regulation pertaining to such license
or has aided or abetted any unlicensed person in performing work which requires
a cemetery contractor’s license or has demonstrated an inability or unfitness
to perform the work for which he has been licensed.
(Prior Code, § 7-12) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000)
§ 91.13 BOND REQUIRED FOR CONTRACTORS.
   No license shall be issued until the contractor has filed with the city a
surety bond for faithful performance of all duties required by the city and for
repayment to the city for damages growing out of the willful acts or negligence
of the contractor.
(Prior Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1079, passed 6- -2009;
Ord. 1253, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 91.14 APPEALS.
   Appeals to administrative determinations of the provisions of this code
shall be made to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-14) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Enforcement of chapter
   
92.03   Violation
   
92.04   Littering prohibited
   
92.05   Discharging weapons prohibited
   
92.06   Throwing objects prohibited
   
92.07   Improper use of sound producing devices
   
92.08   Improper personal conduct
   
92.09   Fires restricted
   
92.10   Damaging or removal of any park property, vegetation or natural
features prohibited
   
92.11   Buildings, erection of signs, advertising and fences prohibited
   
92.12   Possession, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages/glass containers
   
92.13   Vehicles restricted
   
92.14   Parking limited to park and recreation area users
   
92.15   Commercial activity restricted
   
92.16   Hours open to public restricted
   
92.17   Animals restricted
   
92.18   Pyrotechnics restricted
   
92.19   (Reserved)
   
92.20   Park and recreation area restrictions
   
92.21   Camping
   
92.22   Smoking and tobacco use in prohibited areas
   
92.23   Hunting and trapping prohibited
   
92.24   Permits
Cross-reference
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Chapter 111
   Animals and Fowl, see
Chapter 90
   Bicycles, see
Chapter 71
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Intoxicating beverage, malt beverage, wine or any other
beverage containing any alcohol whatsoever.
   BUILDING. Any structure attached to the ground which has a roof and which is
designed for the shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property
of any kind.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, paper, rubbish, debris, trash and all other waste
material whether natural or artificial.
   PARK AND/OR RECREATION AREA. All recreation areas in parks, including land,
buildings, lakes, ponds, streams, swimming pools, sports fields, cemeteries and
all other property and buildings owned, leased or managed by the city, and
including all RECREATION AREAS AND PARK in the city-owned by the state or
federal government and managed by the county.
   VEHICLE. Any motor-driven or engine-driven equipment, such as an automobile,
truck, motorcycle, moped, go-cart, ATV, snowmobile or Segway.
   WEAPON. Firearm, rifle, pistol, revolver, paintball gun, BB gun, Airsoft gun
or any weapon designed or intended to propel a shot, bullet or other missile of
any kind, or any device capable of discharging a projectile by air, spirit, gas
or explosive, or any explosive substance or harmful solid, liquid and gaseous
substance, or any, arrow, bow and arrow, slingshot, crossbow, spear or spear
gun, or any knife as defined by state law, Bowie knife, switchblade knife,
ballistic knife or any other knife, straight-edged razor, spring stick, metal
knuckles, blackjack, any bat, club or other bludgeon-type weapon, or any
flailing instrument or any disk which is designed to be thrown or propelled and
which may be known as throwing star or oriental dart, or any weapon of like
kind, and any stun gun, laser or similar device.
(Prior Code, § 14-01) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017)
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be enforced by any law enforcement officer authorized to
enforce the ordinances of the city. Where there has been a violation of any
provisions of this chapter, the law enforcement officer in his or her
discretion may issue a citation, warning and/or order the person to leave the
park or recreation area.
(Prior Code, § 14-02) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017)
§ 92.03 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to have violated any provision of this chapter may be
punished by the maximum limits established by the city in accordance with the
courts.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter may further be
denied any park permit or permission to utilize the area of any park or
recreation area.
(Prior Code, § 14-03) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit litter on the
grounds, streets, sidewalks, fountains, ponds, lakes, swimming pools, streams
or other body of water in any park or recreation area, except in public trash
canisters and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or recreation
area. Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be
carried away from the park or recreation area by the person responsible for its
presence and shall be properly disposed of elsewhere. It shall be unlawful to
take into or put into a park or recreation area, any litter generated outside
the park or recreation area.
(Prior Code, § 14-04) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 DISCHARGING WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any weapon or similar
device in a park or recreation area unless discharge of weapon is from an
authorized law enforcement officer or animal control officer in the performance
of their regularly assigned duties.
(Prior Code, § 14-05) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 THROWING OBJECTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any stone or missile at any
person, animal, animal habitat, light, sign or at any public or private
building or structure in a park or recreation area.
(Prior Code, § 14-06) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 IMPROPER USE OF SOUND PRODUCING DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use any sound producing or
motorized equipment, including, but not limited to, generators and vehicles, or
play or operate any sound amplification devices, including, but not limited to,
radios, television sets, stereos, musical instruments, public address systems
and the like, in such a manner as to unreasonably annoy, disturb, injure or
endanger other persons, or to otherwise destroy the comfort, repose, peace or
safety of other persons in a park or recreation area. Those possessing a
special parks use permit obtained in advance by the city shall be exempted from
this requirement.
(Prior Code, § 14-07) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 IMPROPER PERSONAL CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any violent, abusive, lewd,
profane, vulgar, wanton, obscene or otherwise disorderly speech or conduct that
is or may be disturbing or annoying to other persons, or that could cause
injury to other persons while in a park or recreation area, which conduct may
include but is not limited to loitering, fighting, throwing or breaking
articles, indecent exposure, lewd sexual acts, urinating or defecating in
public, or public drunkenness. Persons shall be prohibited from entering or
occupying city park or recreational property for any purpose which interferes
with the management of the area or authorized use of the area by others.
(Prior Code, § 14-08) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 FIRES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or maintain a fire in a park or
recreation area except in designated areas which are clearly marked by signs or
defined with fire rings, fireplaces, grills or other area designated for the
purpose of safely maintaining a fire, except by written permit by the city.
Fires shall be confined to those areas so designated, shall not be left
unattended and must be completely extinguished prior to departure.
(Prior Code, § 14-9) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10 DAMAGING OR REMOVAL OF ANY PARK PROPERTY, VEGETATION OR NATURAL
FEATURES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, graffiti, harm or damage any
park buildings, wildlife, property, equipment or signs; or dig up, cut, damage
or remove any trees, tree limbs, shrubbery, flowers, rocks, mulch, water (with
the exception of water from the developed spring located at Kidney Springs),
historical artifacts, natural features or other vegetation in a park or
recreation area.
(Prior Code, § 14-10) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11 BUILDINGS, ERECTION OF SIGNS, ADVERTISING AND FENCES PROHIBITED.
   No person may place, construct, erect or occupy any improvement or building;
post or erect signs, place or distribute advertising material, or erect a fence
or barrier on city park and recreation areas without prior authorization from
the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-11) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.12 POSSESSION, USE OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES/GLASS CONTAINERS.
   (A)   (1)   In all city parks, no person shall consume any alcoholic
beverages, except that the restriction shall not apply to malt beverages or
wine as defined by SDCL § 35-1-1 or where alcoholic beverages are licensed to
be sold. It is a Class 2 misdemeanor for any person to consume distilled
spirits in any public place, other than upon the premises of an on-sale dealer
that is licensed to sell distilled spirits or upon the location set forth in a
permit granted by SDCL § 35-1-5.5. For purposes of this section, the term
PUBLIC PLACE means any place, whether in or out of a building, commonly and
customarily open to or used by the general public, and any street or highway.
      (2)   Exception: Brookside Park. No person shall possess or consume any
alcoholic beverage, including malt beverages or wine, in Brookside Park in the
space from South Sixth Street to the southerly edge of the University Avenue
Bridge. Possession and/or consumption of the prohibited substances shall
constitute a Class 2 misdemeanor.
   (B)   Glass beverage containers of any type are not permitted in any park or
recreation area with the exception of glass beverage containers enclosed by a
silicone or silicone-like sleeve.
(Prior Code, § 14-12) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017; Ord. 1207, passed 1-21-
2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.13 VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any unauthorized vehicle in a
park or recreation area except upon designated roadways and parking areas
maintained for vehicular traffic. Approved personal mobility devices for those
persons with disabilities are allowed on pedestrian trails and walkways. Law
enforcement or other public safety officials, and parks and recreation
employees whose duties require them to drive maintenance vehicles and equipment
shall be exempt from the limitations set forth in this section. All persons
operating any vehicle in a park or recreation facility upon roadways designated
and maintained for vehicular traffic must operate such vehicle in a safe
manner, and must obey all posted speed limits and traffic signs. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for any person to operate any vehicle in a park and/
or recreation area at an excessive speed, in a reckless and unsafe manner, or
in violation of posted traffic signs.
(Prior Code, § 14-13) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.14 PARKING LIMITED TO PARK AND RECREATION AREA USERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park and leave unattended a vehicle
or other property in a park or recreation area if the owner of the vehicle or
other property is not utilizing the park or recreation facility, unless
authorized by the city. It shall be unlawful for persons to congregate within a
parking area of a park or recreation area so as to disrupt traffic or other
persons, or so as to create a safety hazard.
(Prior Code, § 14-14) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.15 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any
merchandise or operate or attempt to operate a concession or engage in a
commercial activity in a park or recreation facility unless approved by permit
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-15) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.16 HOURS OPEN TO PUBLIC RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or vehicle to enter or be within a
park or recreation area outside of the posted hours of operation unless
approved by permit by the city, or unless such person is participating in
authorized and scheduled programs, classes, special events or meetings.
   (B)   Park hours of operation are 90 minutes before sunrise until 11:00 p.m.
   (C)   The Freedom Trail shall be available for use 24 hours/day
(Prior Code, § 14-16) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.17 ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every animal owner or custodian whose animal
is in a park or recreation area or on a public sidewalk or street to have
physical control of the animal by leash or lead line no greater than ten feet
at all times unless in signed park areas where off leash is permitted. It shall
be unlawful for any person with an animal, other than service animals (such as
guide dogs) as necessary, to access areas of a park or recreation area which
are restricted to animals. It shall be the duty of every animal owner or
custodian of any animal whose animal is in a park or recreation area or on a
public sidewalk or street to immediately and properly dispose of solid waste
deposited by the animal.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every animal owner or custodian of any animal
whose animal is in a recreation area to have in their possession proof of a
current rabies vaccination for their animal. A vaccination tag or city pet
license tag on the animal's collar indicating a current vaccination shall be
acceptable proof of vaccination.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every animal owner or custodian of such animal
on a public sidewalk or street or in a park or recreation area to immediately
remove from such park, sidewalk, street, or recreation area such animal upon
such animal exhibiting aggressive behavior toward any person or toward any
other domesticated animal. For the purpose of this section, AGGRESSIVE BEHAVIOR
includes, but is not limited to; aggressive barking, growling, bearing of teeth
or fangs, biting or attempts to bite, or any other behavior that could
reasonably be expected to scare or intimidate any person or domesticated
animal.
(Prior Code, § 14-17) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017; Ord. 1256, passed 4-2-2024)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.18 PYROTECHNICS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, display, use, set off or
attempt to ignite any firecracker, fireworks, smoke bombs, rockets, black
powder guns or other pyrotechnics, unless approved by written permit by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 14-18) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.19 RESERVED.
§ 92.20 PARK AND RECREATION AREA RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to enter a locked or closed park or
recreation facility, including any sports field (by field closed signage)
unless approved in advance by city.
(Prior Code, § 14-20) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.21 CAMPING.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for persons to camp in a park,
recreation facility or in the parking lot of a park or recreation facility,
except at sites or areas specifically designated for camping within the park or
recreation area, or unless otherwise permitted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-21) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.22 SMOKING AND TOBACCO USE IN PROHIBITED AREAS.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for persons to smoke or use tobacco
products in areas of a park or recreation where restrictions of tobacco
products are posted.
(Prior Code, § 14-22) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.23 HUNTING AND TRAPPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to hunt or trap
animals, or attempt to hunt or trap animals, within a park or recreation area.
Fishing shall be permitted so long as person(s) comply with State Department of
Game, Fish and Parks licensing requirements.
   (B)   The city retains the right to perform hunting and trapping activity in
the event of animal control purposes.
(Prior Code, § 14-23) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.24 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits for special events in a park or recreation area shall be
obtained by application to City Hall.
   (B)   Guidelines for the issuance of permits by the city include:
      (1)   The proposed activity or use of the park or recreation facility
will not unreasonably interfere with or detract from the enjoyment of the park
or recreation area (factors to be considered include, but are not limited to,
scope and duration of event);
      (2)   The proposed activity or use of the park or recreation facility
will not unreasonably interfere or detract from the promotion of public health,
welfare, safety and recreation of a park or recreation area;
      (3)   The proposed activity or use of the park or recreation area is not
reasonably anticipated to incite violence, crime or disorderly conduct;
      (4)   The proposed activity or use of the park or recreation area will
not conflict with existing parks and recreation services;
      (5)   The proposed activity or use of the park or recreation area desired
has not been reserved for other use;
      (6)   The permitting person or persons will abide by all other state,
county or city laws, ordinances, rules and regulations and shall be liable for
any loss, damage or injury sustained by any person whatsoever by reason of
negligence of the person or persons to whom such permit shall have been issued;
      (7)   The city shall have the authority to revoke the permit upon the
finding of a violation of any laws, ordinances, rules or regulations or upon
good cause shown;
      (8)   Persons may apply for a permit for a proposed activity or use of
the park or recreation facility under the following categories: picnicking,
fundraising, special event, food service for approved activities, and park or
recreation area rentals; and
      (9)   Any fees associated with acquiring a permit are made to City Hall
prior to or at the time designated on the permit application
(Prior Code, § 14-24) (Ord. 1174, passed 2-14-2017)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Fire Code
   
93.03   Fire Department
   
93.04   Fires and burning
   
93.05   Requirements for outdoor, detached fireplace construction
   
93.06   Fireworks
   
93.07   Restriction on blasting
   
93.08   Storing gun or blasting powder
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BONFIRE. An outdoor fire used for recreational, ceremonial, cooking or
related purpose.
   BURN PERMIT. A burn permit obtained from the City Volunteer Fire Department
for a particular prescribed burn within the city.
   FIRE APPARATUS. Includes fire trucks, hose carts, ladder wagons or ladder
trucks and vehicles carrying members of the Fire Department, which vehicles
must display the insignia or sound the bell or siren of the City Fire
Department.
   FIREWORKS. Any substance or combination of substances or articles prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible combustion, explosion,
deflagration or detonation, and includes blank cartridges, toy cannons, and toy
canes in which explosives are used.
      (1)   The term FIREWORKS shall not include toy pistols, toy guns, in
which paper caps containing 25/100 grains or less of explosive compound are
used and toy pistol caps which contain less than 25/100 grains of explosive
mixture.
      (2)   The term FIREWORKS shall also not include trick noisemakers which
include paper streamers, party poppers, string poppers, snappers and drop pops,
each consisting of not more than 25/100 grains of explosive mixture.
      (3)   NON-TRAVELING FIREWORKS are those fireworks that do not move more
than three feet when being used.
   PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE. A portable fireplace where the area of the fire
does not exceed a two-foot by two-foot square, or 30 inches in diameter, by
two-foot high area, regulated pursuant to the currently adopted International
Fire Code, § 307.4.3.
   RECREATIONAL FIRES. Contained fires for residential use where the fireplace
is constructed in accordance with the city requirements for fireplace
construction.
(Prior Code, § 9-01)
§ 93.02 FIRE CODE.
   The International Fire Code, 2018 Edition, is hereby adopted by the city,
and the printed, copyrighted copy of such Code, which is on file in the office
of the Building Official of this city, is adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-02) (Ord. 1215, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 93.03 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Fire Department created.
      (1)   There is hereby continued the City Volunteer Fire Department, which
may consist of one Fire Chief, one or more assistant Fire Chief(s), and other
volunteer fire captains, firefighters and other staff as the organization may
decide.
      (2)   The City Volunteer Fire Department shall maintain and adhere to
their constitution and bylaws at all times.
      (3)   The city, through the action of the City Council, shall enter into
a contract with the City Volunteer Fire Department to ensure fire protection
services for the city. Such contract shall permit the formation of a fire
board, consisting of two members of the City Council and two members of the
City Volunteer Fire Department, one of whom shall be an officer of the Fire
Department. The intent of this Board is to provide clear communication between
the city and the City Volunteer Fire Department for the fire protection of the
city.
   (B)   Authority at fires.
      (1)   The Fire Chief, or in his or her absence, a designee, shall in all
cases of fire, have the sole control over all the other members of the City
Volunteer Fire Department. The Fire Chief, or in his or her absence, the
assistant chief next in rank, shall have the power to order the arrest of any
person who, during a fire or other emergency, refuses to obey lawful orders,
makes a disturbance, commits any breach of the peace, or for any other just
cause. Any person arrested shall be subject to the penalty as provided under
state law.
      (2)   In the vicinity of a fire, it shall be the duty of the Police
Department to preserve order, protect property, and give any other assistance
as needed.
   (C)   Interference with a fire apparatus.
      (1)   No person shall interfere with, injure or destroy any fire hose,
ladders, axes or other property belonging to the City Volunteer Fire Department
and used for fire purposes, except if they be a member of the Fire Department
and then only in case of fire; provided, however, that nothing in this section
shall be construed to prevent any person from lending assistance to the Fire
Department in case of fire.
      (2)   No person shall willfully hinder or interfere with any city police
officer or firefighter in the performance of his or her duty at, going to or
returning from any fire, or while attending to his or her duty as a member of
the Fire Department.
      (3)   No vehicle may be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire
Department when laid down on any street, private road or driveway to be used at
any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command. A violation of this section is a Class 2 misdemeanor provided under
SDCL § 32-31-8.
   (D)   Obstructing or tampering with fire hydrants.
      (1)   No person shall erect or place a fence or other obstruction, nor
pile any goods or other things, within six feet of any fire plug or hydrant.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to unscrew or remove any cap of any
water hydrant, or in any way interfere with such hydrant, except in such manner
as provided by regulations of the Fire Department.
      (3)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer, firefighter or traffic control device within 15
feet of a fire hydrant (§
70.10).
   (E)   False alarm of fire. No person shall knowingly give a false alarm or
false report of a fire in any manner.
   (F)   Fire alarms.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to loosen or in anyway change or
remove any installation belonging to, used or connected with a fire alarm
without having obtained consent of the Fire Chief for that purpose.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to deface, injure or tamper with any
fire alarm, telephone box or wire, or any apparatus used or connected
therewith, or in any manner to open or give any fire alarm except in case of
fire.
(Prior Code, § 9-03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 FIRES AND BURNING.
   (A)   Burning activities. 
      (1)   No person shall, at anytime, engage in burning activities within
the corporate limits of the city except as follows:
         (a)   Open burning within the Fall River Flood Channel by Fire
Department personnel under the direction and supervision of the Fire Chief;
         (b)   Open burning of structures by the Fire Department for training
purposes;
         (c)   Open burning for the heating or cooking of food for human
consumption in residential areas in a fireplace that is constructed in
accordance with the city requirements for fireplace construction;
         (d)   Open burning for the heating or cooking of food for human
consumption in city parks or campgrounds in fixtures provided for such
activities;
         (e)   Open burning for recreational purposes when such fires are
confined to a fireplace or fire pit constructed in accordance with the city
requirements for fireplace construction. Portable outdoor fireplaces with
maximum quarter inch expanded metal screening shall be permitted;
         (f)   Open burning for bona fide religious or ceremonial purposes
provided the area of the fire does not exceed a two-foot by two-foot square, or
30 inches in diameter, by two-foot high area; and
         (g)   All fires shall be attended pursuant to the currently adopted
International Fire Code, § 307.5.
      (2)   No person shall be permitted to perform open burning in a fireplace
that is not being fueled at the time solely by propane when a Red Flag Warning
is in effect.
   (B)   Fireplace fuels, prohibited fireplace fuels.
      (1)   Approved fire fuels include:
         (a)   Natural woods, such as sawn and split tree wood;
         (b)   Untreated dry wood or products manufactured for the sole purpose
of fire fuel; and
         (c)   Propane for the purpose of a bonfire or recreational fire as
defined in this chapter.
      (2)   Inappropriate and unapproved fire fuels includes, but is not
limited to: leaves, grass clippings, green plants, household garbage,
residential rubbish, building materials, chemically soaked or treated wood
products, painted wood, fiberboard, shipping packaging, rags, fabric, books or
magazines, newspaper, liquid or gelatinous hydrocarbons, caustic materials,
human or animal waste, plastic, vinyl or rubber.
   (C)   Prescribed burns and bonfires.
      (1)   Bonfires, other than those defined in the most current adopted
International Fire Code § 307.4.1, shall be considered a ‘prescribed burn’ for
the purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   Prescribed burns shall be allowed on a case-by-case basis by the
Fire Chief, provided that each of the following provisions are adhered to.
         (a)   There shall not be less than four inches of snow on the ground.
         (b)   A burn permit provided by the City Volunteer Fire Department
shall be obtained and the City Police Department and County Sheriff’s Office be
contacted by the applicant with the burn permit number.
         (c)   Prescribed burns shall not include grasslands, rangelands or
pasturelands within the city limits or contain any inappropriate or unapproved
fire fuels.
(Prior Code, § 9-04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR OUTDOOR, DETACHED FIREPLACE CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Location. The fireplace shall not be located closer than ten feet from
any structures, property lines, utility poles, fences, trees, bushes or
overhanging branches.
   (B)   Fireplace site.
      (1)   The fireplace site shall consist of an area with a minimum radius
of eight feet.
      (2)   The fireplace pad will consist of a cleared area with a minimum
radius of six feet cleared to bare mineral soil and/or covered with gravel
located in the center of the fireplace site. A concrete pad of the same
dimensions may be used in lieu of bare mineral soil or gravel.
      (3)   The remaining two feet of the eight-foot circular fireplace site
may contain vegetation provided it is not greater than three inches in height.
   (C)   Fireplace construction.
      (1)   The fireplace must consist of at least three sides of not less than
ten inches in height but not more than 36 inches in height.
      (2)   The fireplace must be constructed of non-combustible materials
which are mortared or fastened together with a maximum fuel diameter of three
feet, constructed to include a screen, chimney or other device placed above the
fuel area so that the heat source is contained in such a manner that sparks or
embers are not allowed to freely escape into the open atmosphere. Fireplaces
using propane as the sole fuel source do not require a device to contain sparks
or embers.
      (3)   Commercial free-standing portable fireplaces may be used in lieu of
a site-built fireplace provided a screen or expanded metal spark arrester with
openings not greater than one-half inch is used and all other criteria above
are met. Fireplaces using propane as the sole fuel source do not require a
device to contain sparks or embers.
(Prior Code, § 9-05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Approved fireworks for individual use shall be limited to stationary
"cones and fountains" and novelty devices only. No consumer fireworks legally
or illegally sold in the State of South Dakota that are thrown, propelled or
otherwise travel may be discharged. Additionally, no consumer fireworks that
explode or provide a "report" such as, but not limited to, firecrackers, aerial
mortars, bottle rockets, skyrockets, and the like may be discharged.
   (B)   Allowed fireworks shall not be permitted when the Black Hills Area
fire danger for the Southern Hills that includes Custer and Fall River Counties
is high, very high or extreme, as specified on the United States Forest Service
Wildland Fire Assessment System "WFAS - Severe Fire Danger Mapping System" or
if a red flag warning has been issued by the National Weather Service.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to perform fireworks displays for public
entertainment purposes at its discretion. The city shall consult with the Hot
Springs Volunteer Fire Department Fire Chief prior to such displays.
   (D)   Discharge of allowed fireworks is limited to July 4 from 9:00 a.m. to
11:00 p.m. Discharging allowed fireworks outside the allowed times may result
in violations and fines associated with §
95.03.
   (E)   Fines for offenses under this section shall be a maximum fine of an
amount as set by the City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 9-06) (Ord. 1208, passed 3-16-2020; Ord. 1237, passed 12-20-
2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 RESTRICTION ON BLASTING.
   No person shall do any blasting with dynamite, gunpowder or any other
explosive substance within the city without first securing a permit in writing
from the Public Works Engineer or City Administrator. Such permit shall not be
issued unless the applicant shall first sign and file with the Public Works
Engineer an application in writing, specifying where it is proposed to do such
a blasting; the name of the owner of the premises upon which such blasting is
proposed to be done; the number of blasts proposed to be made; the time or
times when such proposed blasts will be detonated; and the amount of dynamite
or other explosive material which will be used for each blast. The fee for a
written permit to do blasting within the city shall be in an amount as set by
the City Council from time to time to be paid by applicant to the Finance
Officer or his or her designee before such permit is issued.
(Prior Code, § 9-07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 STORING GUN OR BLASTING POWDER.
   No person shall keep or store any gunpowder or blasting powder or other like
substance for commercial use or resale, except in such place or magazine as
shall have been approved by the Fire Chief and the Development Coordinator for
that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 9-08) (Ord. 1208, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
94.01   Names of streets and avenues
   
94.02   Street grades
   
94.03   Designated routes of travel on city streets for commercial motor
carriers, trucks and buses
   
94.04   Width of sidewalks
   
94.05   Material for the construction of sidewalks
   
94.06   Sidewalk repairs
   
94.07   Failure to make sidewalk repairs
   
94.08   Permit required to build sidewalks, curbs, gutters and driveway
approaches
   
94.09   Obstruction of streets, alleys and sidewalks prohibited
   
94.10   Water discharge from eaves of buildings on sidewalks prohibited
   
94.11   Removal of snow and ice from public sidewalk
   
94.12   Trimming of trees or shrubs within or overhanging the public right-of-
way
   
94.13   Trenching contractor’s license
   
94.14   Renewal of license
   
94.15   Revocation of license
   
94.16   Permit required for excavation
   
94.17   Bond and insurance required for contractors
   
94.18   Excavation permit fees
   
94.19   Liability
   
94.20   Guarding excavations
   
94.21   Refilling excavations
   
94.22   Excavations near streets, alleys and the like
   
94.23   Street improvement policy
§ 94.01 NAMES OF STREETS AND AVENUES.
   The names of the streets and avenues in the city are hereby fixed and
adopted in accordance with and as shown by the map of the city now on file in
the office of the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 22-1)
§ 94.02 STREET GRADES.
   The grades of the streets and avenues in the city that have been established
and set by the installation of concrete curb and gutter and hard top surfacing
and as shown on the street profiles of said streets as recorded on file in the
office of the City Engineer are hereby established and designated as the
official grades of said streets. All existing and proposed streets and avenues
within the city that do not have concrete curb and gutter or hard top surfacing
at the time of this chapter shall be set, and recorded in, the office of the
City Engineer when such concrete curb and gutter and hard top surfacing are
installed.
(Prior Code, § 22-2)
§ 94.03 DESIGNATED ROUTES OF TRAVEL ON CITY STREETS FOR COMMERCIAL MOTOR
CARRIERS, TRUCKS AND BUSES.
   The city may designate routes of travel on public streets and highways
within and through the city for commercial carriers, trucks and buses. Such
commercial carriers, trucks and buses may deviate from any designated route
only to the extent necessary to reach a necessary destination within the city.
Any street which is not a designated route for commercial carriers, trucks or
buses may be posted with appropriate signs prohibiting such traffic.
(Prior Code, § 22-4)
§ 94.04 WIDTH OF SIDEWALKS.
   All public sidewalks constructed within the city shall be set on grade and
location as approved by the City Engineer and shall meet the following minimum
width requirements:
   (A)   Four feet wide for Residential Class A and B zoning areas;
   (B)   Six feet wide for Highway Service and Industrial Park zoning areas;
and
   (C)   Eight feet wide for General Commercial zoning areas.
(Prior Code, § 22-5)
§ 94.05 MATERIAL FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   All public sidewalks constructed within the city shall be constructed of
Portland cement concrete having a minimum compressive strength of 3,500 pounds
per square inch (psi) when tested in six inches by 12 inches cylinders at the
age of 28 days in accordance with the standard test as outline by A.S.T.M. C39-
56T. Sidewalks shall be constructed with a minimum of four inches in thickness,
have surface expansion strikes at intervals equal in width to the sidewalk, and
have expansion joints placed at least every 100 linear feet.
(Prior Code, § 22-6)
§ 94.06 SIDEWALK REPAIRS.
   It is the responsibility of the landowner to which the sidewalk abuts to
keep said sidewalk in good repair and clear of all obstructions. Whenever any
portion of an existing sidewalk in the city shall become dilapidated or unsafe,
the city shall notify the abutting landowner in writing that said sidewalk
shall be repaired or replaced within a given time and the cost of which is the
sole responsibility of the abutting landowner. All such repairs or replacements
shall be built in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-8)
§ 94.07 FAILURE TO MAKE SIDEWALK REPAIRS.
   Whenever an abutting landowner shall fail to properly or promptly repair a
dilapidated or unsafe sidewalk after having been given due notice as provided
under §
94.06, the city shall cause such repairs to be made and the cost of which, to
include all labor, materials and administration, shall be assessed for
immediate payment upon the abutting landowner. Said landowner shall also be
liable to the city for any damage caused by such neglect.
(Prior Code, § 22-9)
§ 94.08 PERMIT REQUIRED TO BUILD SIDEWALKS, CURBS, GUTTERS AND DRIVEWAY
APPROACHES.
   No person shall construct any sidewalk, curb, gutter or driveway approach on
any street or alley in the city, without first obtaining a permit from the City
Engineering Department, and such work shall be under the supervision of the
City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 22-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.09 OBSTRUCTIONS OF STREETS, ALLEYS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business, unless issued a
permit by the Planning Administrator or other designated city employee, to
obstruct any public street, alley or sidewalk. To OBSTRUCT means rendering
impassable without reasonable inconvenience or hazard. Furthermore, a street,
alley or sidewalk shall be deemed obstructed if the passageway becomes non-
compliant with ADA standards for accessible design. At all times items placed
on a sidewalk must ensure a passageway at least five feet in width in which no
section of the five feet contains a cross slope exceeding a 2% maximum. All
advertising signage, bicycle racks, trash containers or other moveable objects
may be placed so long as they are non-obstructive, compliant with ADA standards
for accessible design, and permissible by all governing ordinances.
   (B)   The Planning Administrator or other designee by the city reserves the
right to determine if a public street, alley or sidewalk is obstructed. If a
public street, alley or sidewalk is found to be obstructed, the property owner
shall be notified in writing of such obstruction. For any property owner that
fails to correct the obstruction within the time indicated on the notice, the
city may cause such obstruction to be removed and the cost of such shall be
assessed to the owner.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, stand or sit upon a
public street, alley or sidewalk so as to hinder or obstruct free passage or
cause a safety hazard to others.
(Prior Code, § 22-11) (Ord. 1171, passed 12-19-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.10 WATER DISCHARGE FROM EAVES OF BUILDINGS ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place or maintain any pipes, downspouts or roof drains that
discharge rainwater off the roof or eaves of any building directly onto a
public sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 22-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.11 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the abutting landowner to a public sidewalk to
keep such sidewalk clear from snow and ice at all times. Snowfall shall be
removed from public sidewalks within two hours of the completion of the
snowfall during daylight hours, or by 10:00 a.m. the following morning. If it
is impossible to remove the snow and ice from the sidewalk, the owner shall use
a deicer or sprinkle sand on the sidewalk to prevent the sidewalk from becoming
slippery and dangerous to travel.
   (B)   If the owner shall fail or refuse to remove the snow or ice from
public sidewalks abutting his or her property within a reasonable time, the
city may cause the snow and ice to be removed and assess the cost to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 22-16)
§ 94.12 TRIMMING OF TREES OR SHRUBS WITHIN OR OVERHANGING THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-
WAY.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the property owner to keep all trees and
shrubs that are within or protruding into the public right-of-way adjacent to
his or her property properly trimmed for safe vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   The following minimum heights and distances for trees and shrubs shall
be followed.
      (1)   Overhanging branches and shrubs shall be kept trimmed at least 14
feet above a public street or alley.
      (2)   Overhanging tree branches and shrubs shall be kept a minimum of
eight feet above all public sidewalks.
      (3)   On corner lots, no trees or shrubs shall be planted within a
triangle established by measuring 25 feet back from both streets along the curb
line or edge of pavement.
      (4)   No tree shall obstruct the view of any roadway regulatory sign or
street name sign.
      (5)   No tree, shrub or other vegetation shall obstruct a fire hydrant or
other emergency service access point.
      (6)   No tree, shrub or other vegetation shall obstruct a handicap
accessible access point.
   (C)   The Planning Administrator (also referred to as Code Enforcement
Officer), or in his or her absence, the City Administrator reserves the right
to determine if any tree or shrub within or adjacent to the public right-of-way
is causing public safety or nuisance hazard and to order the obstructing, dead
or dying tree or shrub trimmed or removed.
   (D)   If any property owner shall fail or refuse to trim or remove any tree
or shrub which has been determined by the city to be a public safety or hazard
nuisance within a reasonable time following notification, the city may cause
such tree or shrub to be trimmed or removed and the cost of such shall be
assessed against the owner.
(Prior Code, § 22-19) (Ord. 1161, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 94.13 TRENCHING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE.
   (A)   Persons trenching or excavating in the public right-of-way (streets,
alleys or other public places) are required to have a valid city trenching
contractor’s license. The license does not authorize the holder to place water
or sewer pipe of any type.
   (B)   Application forms may be obtained from the Building Inspector of the
city. The license fee shall be in an amount as set by the City Council from
time to time per year and will expire December 31 of each year. Each licensee
must meet the bond and insurance requirements under §
94.17. Each new license shall be reviewed and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 22-20)
§ 94.14 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Trenching contractor’s licenses may be renewed each year between January 1
and March 1 by paying a fee in an amount as set by the City Council from time
to time and meeting the bond and insurance requirements of §
94.17. Any license which has not been renewed by March 1 will be considered a
new license and subject to §
94.13.
(Prior Code, § 22-21)
§ 94.15 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council may, upon notice and hearing, revoke any trenching
contractor’s license upon finding that the holder of such license has willfully
violated any statute, ordinance, rule or regulation pertaining to such license
or has aided or abetted any unlicensed person in performing work which requires
a trenching contractor’s license or has demonstrated an inability or unfitness
to perform the work, or has failed to renew, or has lost his or her bonding and
insurance requirements.
(Prior Code, § 22-22)
§ 94.16 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR EXCAVATION.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall make or cause to be made,
any excavation in or under any street, alley or public ground or remove any
earth, soil, paving, gravel, or any other material therefrom without first
having obtained a permit from the office of the City Engineer. Any company
which has a franchise from the city, permitting it to make excavations in the
streets and alleys of said city shall not be required to obtain a permit but is
instructed to coordinate its excavation activities with the City Engineer prior
to making any such excavations.
(Prior Code, § 22-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.17 BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED FOR CONTRACTORS.
   No trenching contractor’s license or excavation permit shall be issued until
the contractor has filed with the City Finance Officer the following:
   (A)   A surety bond in the sum of $1,000 for faithful performance of all
duties required by the city and for repayment to the city for all damages done
growing out of the carelessness or negligence of the contractor; and
   (B)   A certificate of insurance showing that the applicant has in effect a
statutory worker’s compensation insurance policy including employer’s liability
coverage in the amount of $100,000 and a liability policy covering business
operations including coverage for explosion, collapse and underground, commonly
referred to as XCU coverage, and including coverage for owned and non-owned
vehicles with limits of not less than $300,000 bodily injury for any one
individual, and $300,000 for injury or destruction of the property of others.
Such certificate shall contain a statement to the effect that the policy cannot
be canceled or substantially altered without ten days’ prior written notice to
the city; provided, however, the City Council, may waive or modify said
worker’s compensation insurance requirement under such circumstances and
conditions as the Council may deem appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 22-31)
§ 94.18 EXCAVATION PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Fees to be paid at the time the excavation permit is applied shall be
set in an amount as set by the City Council from time to time.
   (B)   Fees shall be determined as one cut, or excavation, provided that it
is one continuous trenching operation or under one contract and within a 400-
foot radius.
   (C)   All street surfacing, sidewalks, curb and gutter, alleys and anything
else destroyed or damaged in excavating will be restored to its original
condition or better before the excavation took place.
(Prior Code, § 22-32)
§ 94.19 LIABILITY.
   If any settlement occurs in or under the surface or pavement, within one
year, it shall be presumed that the project was not done properly. The city
will send a notice by certified mail to the person, firm or corporation having
obtained the permit for said work. The permittee shall have ten days upon
receipt of the notification to correct the deficiencies, or the city shall have
the work done and the permittee shall be assessed a fee of one and one-half
times the cost incurred. This assessment shall be paid prior to issuance of any
additional permits and in no case later than 30 calendar days after the project
completion.
(Prior Code, § 22-33)
§ 94.20 GUARDING EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person doing any excavating in, under or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public ground shall erect and maintain around the same both
day and night, suitable guards, fences, signals and lights so as to prevent
injury to persons, animals or vehicles on account of such excavations. Warning
lights shall be kept lit from sundown to sunrise.
(Prior Code, § 22-34)
§ 94.21 REFILLING EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Any person making such excavation shall, when the same has been
completed, promptly and without delay, refill the same as herein provided.
   (B)   All materials used for backfill shall be free from frozen materials,
rocks and foreign materials, that may decompose, and other materials that may
affect the stability of the backfill.
   (C)   Chunks of asphalt or concrete from the street, sidewalk, curb and
gutter and the like will not be used in the backfill.
   (D)   Backfill shall be compacted at near optimum moisture content in layers
not to exceed six inches in compacted thickness, by pneumatic tampers or other
approved means of compaction. Tamping with the bottom or sides of an excavating
bucket will not be acceptable. Compaction in lifts thicker than six inches may
be done provided the City Engineer approves the use of a thicker layer when it
is to be accomplished with an approved mechanical tamper capable of adequately
compacting the additional thickness.
   (E)   Water flooding for the consolidation of backfill will not be
acceptable. The addition of water will be limited to the amount needed to
obtain optimum moisture content for maximum density consolidation.
   (F)   Ninety-five percent compaction or better will be required under
streets and alleys and areas under structural loading. All other areas will
require a minimum of 90% compaction.
(Prior Code, § 22-35)
§ 94.22 EXCAVATIONS NEAR STREETS, ALLEYS AND THE LIKE.
   Property owners shall be responsible for securely guarding and adequately
protecting all open excavations on their property so as to prevent collapse and
endangerment to adjacent property and structures, and to prevent the injury of
any person or animal passing upon or along the same.
(Prior Code, § 22-37)
§ 94.23 STREET IMPROVEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The cost for installation of curb and gutter adjacent to private
property shall be paid entirely by the adjoining property owners. No street
paving project will be undertaken without requiring curb and gutter
installation.
   (B)   Curb, gutter and paving costs for street and alley intersections will
be paid entirely by the city.
   (C)   The cost of paving alley approaches will be paid entirely by the city.
   (D)   Corner lots will be assessed for street paving improvements on a front
foot basis. In addition to paying the cost of curb and gutter installation
along the front of said lot, owners of corner lots shall also pay the cost of
curb and gutter installation along the side of said lot for a distance of 25
feet.
   (E)   Other than the cost allocations provided hereinbefore in this section,
the remainder of the cost of any street paving project will be shared by the
city and the property owners on a 50-50 sharing basis unless decided otherwise
by the City Council.
   (F)   The Council shall annually budget such amount as the Council
determines available in order to encourage future street improvement projects.
In the event the city has more applications for matching fund street paving
projects than the city has funds to complete in any given year, such
applications shall be assigned a priority for future years.
(Prior Code, § 22-39)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances Prohibited
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Enforcement and abatement
   
95.03   Nuisances prohibited
   
95.04   Notification
   
95.05   Means of abatement; cost recovery
   
95.06   Appeals
Weeds and Noxious Plants
   
95.20   Weeds declared nuisances
   
95.21   Remedy, cost recovery
Vacant Property Registration Requirement
   
95.35   Purpose
   
95.36   Scope
   
95.37   Definitions
   
95.38   Registry of vacant properties
   
95.39   Registration requirements
   
95.40   Property maintenance and security requirements
   
95.41   Monitoring and administrative fees
   
95.42   Fire-damaged property and properties going through probate
   
95.43   Unpaid fees; assessment
Vacant lots and Acreages Within the City
   
95.55   Purpose
   
95.56   Definitions
   
95.57   Property maintenance of vacant lands
Emergency Abatement
   
95.60   Declaration of emergency
   
95.61   Immediate abatement
   
95.62   Corrective action plan
   
95.63   Remedies against nuisance generally
Noise
   
95.70   Unlawful noise
 
   
95.99   Penalty
NUISANCES PROHIBITED
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE/COLLECTIBLE/HISTORIC VEHICLE. An antique, collectible or historic
vehicle that is currently licensed as such and that does not meet the
definition of an inoperable vehicle.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way lying between the edge of
an improved street and the property line of the adjoining property.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is not in operating condition due to
damage, removal or inoperability of one or more tires and wheels, engine,
battery or other essential component required to start and operate the vehicle,
or which does not have a lawfully affixed current and valid state license plate
registered to that vehicle.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. One which affects at the same time an entire community or
neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal. Every other
nuisance is private.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, tracks, treads, runners or slides,
and transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, bus, motor home, motor bike, motor scooter, motorcycle,
go-cart, golf cart, four-wheeler, truck or tractor.
      (2)   Any pull trailer or camper, or other conveyance intended to be
pulled or otherwise transported on a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-01-01)
§ 95.02 ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT.
   The Police Department and the Building Department may act jointly or
separately, as is deemed necessary and appropriate by the Chief of Police and/
or the Building Official, or however otherwise directed by the governing body,
in the enforcement and abatement of public nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-01-02)
§ 95.03 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person, owner or occupant of any house, business, building or lot in the
city shall create or commit any public nuisance as defined in this section.
   (A)   Within the meaning of this section, a public nuisance consists in
unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a duty, within the corporate
limits of the city, or in any public grounds or parks belonging to the city
which act or omission either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake, stream, public park, public sidewalk,
street or alley; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in use of
property; and
      (5)   Which affects at the same time an entire community or neighborhood
or any considerable number of persons although the extent of the annoyance or
damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal.
   (B)   Prohibited nuisances shall include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Household waste, including, but not limited to, such items as
paper, rags, trash, garbage, discarded clothing, shoes, curtains, tin cans,
aluminum cans, plastic containers, glass containers, cleaning utensils, cooking
utensils, discarded household fixtures and similar items when kept or stored on
private property in view of adjacent properties or public rights-of-way;
      (2)   Used and unused building materials and construction waste
including, but not limited to, such items as lumber, plaster, scrap or salvaged
iron or other metal, concrete, brick, tiles, stockpiles of rock, sand, dirt or
gravel when not currently being used for landscaping purposes, doors, windows
and similar items that are kept inside the corporate limits of the city and
which are not stored inside a building, except for building or landscaping
materials that are temporarily stored for work on the premises authorized by a
valid building permit or site development permit obtained for the premises from
the city, provided that such used or waste building materials shall not remain
on the premises more than 30 days after the completion of the project;
      (3)   Household appliances, fixtures and furniture including, but not
limited to, such items as stoves, refrigerators, freezers, sinks, cabinets and
other kitchen appliances, bedroom furniture, mattresses, tables, chairs,
clothes washing and drying machines, bathroom appliances and fixtures, light
fixtures, washtubs and similar items when such items are stored, collected,
piled or kept in the city and are not stored inside a building, except that
patio furniture or other furniture designed for outdoor use, and that is being
utilized for that purpose, shall not constitute a nuisance;
      (4)   Dismantled motor vehicles, motor vehicles bodies and disassembled
parts thereof, disassembled bicycles and bicycle parts, and other mechanical
machines or motors or parts thereof when such items are stored, collected,
piled or kept in the city, and are not kept inside a building.
      (5)   Inoperable vehicles that are kept, parked or stored upon any
property within the city for longer than ten days with the following
exceptions:
         (a)   Vehicles that are kept entirely within an enclosed building; and
         (b)   One non-licensed motor vehicle that is in operable condition
that is specifically adopted or designed for operation on drag strips, raceways
or in derby events may be kept provided that it is appropriately covered so as
to not be complained upon as a nuisance.
      (6)   Carcasses of animals and hides, all carcasses of animals remaining
exposed one hour after death, except legally caught and tagged game, which
shall be 24 hours, and all green or salted hides left deposited in any open
place;
      (7)   Liquid refuse, all slop, foul or chemically polluted water, liquor,
all filth, refuse or offal, discharged through drains or spouts or otherwise
thrown or deposited in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, public place, park
or facility, or lake, stream or pool of water;
      (8)   All vegetable, vegetable matter or other articles that emit or
cause an offensive, noxious or disagreeable smell or odor that may attract
rodents, vermin or other disease carrying pests, animals or insects; and
      (9)   Any other condition the City Council shall deem and declare to be a
nuisance.
      (10)   Any structure that the city code official has determined
dangerous, condemned, uninhabitable, and/or in violation of any city ordinance,
state statute, and/or the International Property Maintenance Code, as adopted
by city ordinance, is a public nuisance unless overturned by the City Council
pursuant to § 95.06 Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-01-03) (Ord. 1227, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Whenever the code official becomes aware of, and upon inspection
thereof, that any condition or conditions prohibited in this chapter has been
created or exists on any premises located within the city, the code official
may give, or cause to be given, notice to abate the unlawful condition or
conditions existing on the premises. Such notice shall be served by certified
mail at the last known address of the property owner or by personal service.
   (B)   If certified mail/return receipt requested is sent to the last known
address and the mail is returned marked “refused” or “unclaimed,” then a copy
of such notice may be posted upon the premises where the nuisance exists or, in
the alternative, such notice may be served by publication in the official
newspaper for two consecutive weeks.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-01-04) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 MEANS OF ABATEMENT; COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Any property legally noticed shall be brought into compliance with the
notice within 20 days of the date of the notice. Upon failure to comply with
the notice of violation, any duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or
contractor hired by the jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the
property in violation and remove or destroy the offending matter. The costs of
such abatement or removal shall be charged to the property owner. If the bill
is not satisfied within 30 days of the date of the billing, payment will be
sought either through a collection agency or by placing a lien on the subject
property.
   (B)   Any private person may also abate a public nuisance which is
especially injurious to such person or any private nuisance injurious to such
person by removing or if necessary destroying that which constitutes the
nuisance without committing a breach of the peace or doing unnecessary injury.
If a private nuisance results from a mere omission of the wrongdoer, and cannot
be abated without entering upon the wrongdoer’s land, reasonable notice shall
be given to the wrongdoer, in writing, before entering the property to abate
it.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-01-05) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 APPEALS.
   Any person, firm or entity directly affected by the notice shall have the
right to appeal to the City Council, provided that the written application is
filed with the Building Department within 20 days of the date of the notice.
Application shall be on the form provided by the city. Appeals shall be based
on a claim that the true intent of the code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder has been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of the code do not
fully apply, or the requirements of the code are adequately satisfied by other
means. Failure of any person to file an appeal within the specified time period
shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and
adjudication of the notice or to any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-01-07)
WEEDS AND NOXIOUS PLANTS
§ 95.20 WEEDS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   (A)   Weeds that are deemed or declared noxious by the County Weed and Pest
Supervisor shall be recognized by the city.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the occupant, person in charge of, or owner of
any lot in the city to keep such lot free from noxious vegetation and to cut
such noxious vegetation at such times as may be necessary to prevent its
growth.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-02-01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 REMEDY, COST RECOVERY.
   If the occupant, person in charge of, or owner of any lot within the city
shall fail or neglect to destroy any noxious weeds, the city may issue notice
to property owners requiring all noxious weeds and vegetation to be destroyed.
Such notice may be given by certified mail/return receipt requested, personal
service, or publication once a week for two consecutive weeks in the official
newspaper of the city. Should the occupant, person in charge of, or owner of
any lot within the city fail to cause such weeds to be destroyed within ten
days of the date of the notice, or two days after the last publication, the
city may cause the same to be done. The expense thereof shall be certified to
the Finance Officer and the same shall be charged to the property owner. If the
bill is not paid within 30 days of the date of the billing, all costs and fees
shall be levied as a special assessment against the property upon which such
weeds were destroyed and when collected shall be deposited into the General
Fund of the city or, in the alternative, satisfaction may be sought by the use
of a collection agency.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-02-02)
VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT
§ 95.35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to help protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens by preventing blight, protecting property values,
preserving the Historic District, and preserving the integrity of neighborhoods
by avoiding the creation of nuisances and nuisance properties, thus ensuring
the safe and sanitary maintenance of dwellings, commercial and industrial
buildings and the properties on which they exist. The registry will provide up
to date emergency contact information for every vacant structure, building
conditions, usage and locations for use by first responders and the Building
Inspector to maintain an open line of communication between the city and the
property owners.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-03-01)
§ 95.36 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all structures within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-03-02)
§ 95.37 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EVIDENCE OF OCCUPANCY. Conditions visible from the exterior of the structure
that would lead a reasonable person to conclude that the property is currently
occupied by the owners or tenants.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Conditions visible from the exterior of the structure
that would lead a reasonable person to conclude that the property is not
currently occupied by the owners or tenants. Such conditions shall include, but
are not limited to, overgrown and/or dead vegetation; accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers, phone books and/or mail; past due utility
notices; accumulation of trash, junk and/or debris; the absence of basic
household furnishings and/or personal items consistent with occupied
structures; statements and observations by neighbors, utility personnel,
delivery agents or other government employees that the property is vacant;
failure to comply with the city’s snow removal requirements, or evidence of the
property being an attractive nuisance or harborage for rodents, pests or
vermin. Disconnected or discontinued public utilities shall be considered
undisputable EVIDENCE OF VACANCY.
   GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONE OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT. The portion of the
Historic District that is within the General Commercial (GC) Zone.
   NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARD. Conditions that are present on a simple majority of
properties within a 500-foot radius of the subject property which indicate a
standard that properties should be maintained to in order to preserve
neighborhood property values. Vacant and/or nuisance properties shall not be
considered in the simple majority calculation.
   NUISANCE PROPERTY. An occupied or unoccupied property that is in violation
of one or more nuisance ordinances of the city.
   OWNER. Any person, trustee, power of attorney, partnership, copartnership,
business, association, corporation, fiduciary or any other imaginable entity
having a legal or equitable title or claim, or any interest in, the piece of
property immediately in question.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. One- and two-family dwellings for lease, lent, or rent, to
include residences inhabited by non-owner family members. Triplexes, four-
plexes and apartment complexes shall be considered commercial RENTAL
PROPERTIES.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. A person, trustee, power of attorney, partnership,
copartnership, business, association, corporation, fiduciary or any other
imaginable entity, other than the owner, that has taken responsibility for the
piece of property immediately in question.
   UNOCCUPIED STRUCTURE. A structure left for a period of time unoccupied but
fully furnished with intent to reoccupy. Water may be disconnected but
utilities such as electric are still intact and functioning, even if at a lower
level.
   VACANT STRUCTURE. A building or structure that is not currently occupied and
shows “evidence of vacancy” as defined herein. Not an unoccupied structure.
   VACANT STRUCTURE; FOR SALE BY OWNER. A vacant structure that is for sale by
the “owner” as defined herein.
   VACANT STRUCTURE; FOR SALE BY REAL ESTATE COMPANY. A vacant structure that
shows evidence of vacancy as defined herein and is listed by a real estate
broker or company or auction company. An owner’s agent may register that
structure as the responsible party.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-03-03)
§ 95.38 REGISTRY OF VACANT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the city a registry of vacant structures.
   (B)   Owners of real property are required to register all vacant structures
within 30 days of the vacancy, except where the structure in question is being
repaired or remodeled and a valid building permit has been issued for that
project. This excludes rental properties in between rentals and does not meet
the definition of evidence of vacancy as defined herein.
   (C)   Structures that are vacant at the time of the enactment of this
chapter must register within 30 days after notification of the enactment of
this chapter.
   (D)   A real estate company that has a vacant structure listed for sale may,
as the owner’s agent, register that property for their client within 90 days of
signing a sales contract. Upon notification by the city that an owner has
failed to register a vacant structure that is listed with a real estate
company, the listing real estate company may register that property with the
property owner’s current contact information. Registration fees and subsequent
fines shall be the responsibility of the property owner. (See §
95.37).
   (E)   Owners who are required to register their properties pursuant to this
chapter shall submit a completed vacant structure registration form provided by
the city containing at minimum the following information:
      (1)   The name of the owner of the property;
      (2)   A mailing address where mail may be sent that will be acknowledged
as received by the owner;
      (3)   The name of a responsible party for the care and control of the
property;
      (4)   A current address, phone number, fax and email address (if fax and
email addresses are available) where communications may be sent that will be
acknowledged as received by the owner or responsible party for the care and
control of the property. If certified mail/return receipt requested is sent to
the address and the mail is returned marked “refused” or “unclaimed,” or if
ordinary mail sent to the address is returned for whatever reason, then such
occurrence shall be prima facie proof that the responsible party has failed to
comply with this requirement; and
      (5)   The vacant structure registration form shall also contain, directly
above the signature lines, a statement of acknowledgment and acceptance of the
city’s property maintenance requirements.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-03-04) (Ord. 1215, 8-17-2020)
§ 95.39 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Annual registrations are due by September 30 of each year or within 30
days of the structure becoming vacant.
   (B)   Where the owner of a vacant structure has failed to register that
property by the September 30 deadline, a registration fee in an amount as set
by the City Council from time to time shall be administered.
   (C)   If at any time the information contained in the registration form is
no longer valid, the property owner or his or her agent shall file a new
registration form containing current information within 30 days. There shall be
no fee to update the current owner’s information.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-03-05)
§ 95.40 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE AND SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties on which a registered vacant structure exists shall be
maintained to be consistent with the neighborhood standard.
   (B)   Properties subject to this chapter shall be kept free of tall
vegetation more than eight inches high, vegetation growth between sidewalk and/
or driveway flags or from cracks in the pavement, dry brush, dead vegetation,
trash, junk, debris, building materials, rodent harborage, any accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers, notices (except those required by federal, state
or local law), discarded items including, but not limited to, furniture,
clothing, large and small appliances, printed material, signage, containers,
equipment, construction materials or any illegal outside storage of vehicles or
vehicle parts.
   (C)   Properties subject to this chapter shall be landscaped and properly
maintained. Landscaping includes, but is not limited to: grass, ground covers,
bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark shall be
maintained in an appropriate manner. Landscaping does not include bare soils or
dirt, weeds, unclean gravel, broken concrete, asphalt, decomposed materials,
exposed plastic sheeting, carpet or any similar material.
   (D)   Pools, spas and other water features shall be kept in working order or
winterized to ensure that the water remains clear and free of pollutants and
debris, or drained and kept dry and free of debris to prevent the breeding of
air borne pests.
   (E)   Properties subject to this chapter shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons. SECURE MANNER
includes, but is not limited to, the closure and locking of windows, doors
(walkthrough, sliding and garage), gates and any other opening of such size
that it may allow a child to access the interior of the property and/or
structure(s).
   (F)   (1)   Commercial buildings and all buildings within the General
Commercial Zone of the Historic District which exhibit evidence of vacancy
shall be maintained as to give the appearance of evidence of occupancy, to
include:
         (a)   Maintaining the exterior of the property in good order including
cleaned windows, a lit interior at night (1fc) with the view into the first
floor to be easily viewed by police to maintain security on the premises, and
facade materials maintained in a good state of repair including no peeling
paint, missing mortar, rusted metal and the like. The lighting requirement can
be met by using battery operated string lighting; and
         (b)   All first floor windows installed with clean solid glass and all
upper story windows shall have glass, secure-vue, plexi-glass or black painted
half-inch plywood (not particle board) installed and secured within each window
opening.
      (2)   Exception: commercial buildings undergoing alterations,
renovations, repair or construction in accordance with a building permit
legally issued to that property and actively being executed shall not be
considered a vacant structure.
   (G)   Sidewalks shall be maintained free of snow and ice or other hazardous
conditions, to include overhanging tree branches or brush encroachments into
the walkway, volunteer vegetation, broken concrete, sunken concrete, dirt or
debris.
   (H)   Except as expressly provided for herein, properties that are subject
to this chapter shall comply with the minimum exterior provisions of the most
recent International Property Maintenance Code adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-03-06)
§ 95.41 MONITORING AND ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   (A)   For each notice of violation of any provision of this chapter, the
Code Official is hereby authorized to charge an inspection fee in an amount as
set by the City Council from time to time to be assessed against the property/
owner to offset the costs incurred by the city in responding to telephone
calls, complaints, inquiries, site visits, owner contacts and the monitoring of
the site.
   (B)   Structures that are subject to this chapter that are found open, are
open or exposed to the elements, unsecured or found to be easily accessible
shall be subject to entry by the Code Official in order to ensure that the
property has not become an attractive nuisance and to ensure that the structure
is locked and/or secured. The owner of property shall be charged a fee in an
amount as set by the City Council from time to time to offset the cost incurred
by the city in contacting the owner or responsible party to secure the
property. If the owner and/or responsible party cannot be contacted by means
provided on the registration form, or does not secure the property within 48
hours of notification, the Code Official shall cause the deficiency to be
corrected, the owner shall be responsible for the cost incurred by the city in
securing the property.
   (C)   Inspection fees, administrative fees and securing fees, shall be
documented in the Registry of Vacant Structures, and billed to that property
owner as deemed necessary by the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-03-07)
§ 95.42 FIRE-DAMAGED PROPERTY AND PROPERTIES GOING THROUGH PROBATE.
   Where a building or structure has been damaged by fire or is part of a
probate estate settlement, the vacant property shall be registered with the
city, but shall not be required to pay the required fee. All contact
information shall be supplied on the registration form as if it were a typical
registration. The city must be notified within 30 days of the settlement with
the plans for the renovation, sale or reuse of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-03-08)
§ 95.43 UNPAID FEES; ASSESSMENT.
   Upon the owner’s failure to pay a bill within 30 days, the costs of
abatements shall be assessed against the property as a lien and included on the
tax roll or, in addition to all other remedies allowed by law, the unpaid bill
shall be considered an outstanding debt and shall be satisfied prior to city
utilities being turned on to the property.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-03-09)
VACANT LOTS AND ACREAGES WITHIN THE CITY
§ 95.55 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the aesthetics of the city
and the safety of the public through fire protection by establishing minimum
requirements for the mowing and trimming of vacant acreages, to create fire
breaks of minimal vegetative growth between properties, and to establish
maximum allowable height of fire fuels within those established fire breaks.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-04-01)
§ 95.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY ACREAGE. A lot, parcel, tract or acreage, or other contiguously owned
land, within the city consisting of more than 25,600 square feet of land.
   CITY LOT. A piece or parcel of property within the city consisting of not
more than 25,600 square feet of land.
   SETBACK DISTANCES. The required open spaces as provided in the zoning
ordinance. The distances that structures and improvements must maintain from
property lines.
   VACANT. A lot, parcel, tract or acreage that does not have any improvements
placed on it.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-04-02)
§ 95.57 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE OF VACANT LANDS.
   (A)   All vacant lands within the city shall be maintained in accordance
with the city’s nuisance ordinance and the International Property Maintenance
Code except as provided herein.
   (B)   Vacant city acreages shall be maintained free of weeds, grass, plants
or other vegetation in excess of 12 inches within the required setback
distances of the district in which it is located.
   (C)   Inside the boundary established by the setback lines of the district,
weeds, grass, plants or other vegetation shall not exceed a height of 30
inches.
   (D)   The requirements of this section do not apply to live trees, live
shrubbery or cultivated flowers and garden crops.
   (E)   Exception: where, in the opinion of the Code Official or the
inspecting official, conditions exist (topography, accessibility and the like)
which would make it unreasonable or unnecessary to meet the standards of this
chapter, the minimum standards may be adjusted provided that the spirit and
intent of this chapter is maintained.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-04-03)
EMERGENCY ABATEMENT
§ 95.60   DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Hot Springs Municipal Code
relating to the declaration, identification, and abatement of nuisances, in the
event that the city, the State of South Dakota or federal government declares
an emergency to exist that endangers or presents a hazard to public health,
welfare, or safety, and either the city, state or a federal government
implements rules or recommendations restricting or limiting the actions of
individuals or businesses in order to limit or slow the impact of such
emergency event, the city may declare any business or individual who violates
those rules or recommendations to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   In declaring the emergency, the city may by resolution set forth rules
or recommendations restricting or limiting actions of individuals or businesses
that the city has determined necessary to protect the immediate health,
welfare, or safety of the public and within the resolution may adopt by
reference actions, declarations, or standards currently in place or being put
in place by the state or the federal government.
(Ord. 1215, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 95.61 IMMEDIATE ABATEMENT.
   Upon a determination by the Police Department or the Development Coordinator
that a business or individual is operating in violation of those rules and
recommendations set forth in Section 58 above which the City has declared to be
a nuisance, the police department or the development coordinator may determine
that such violation is an immediate threat to public health, and safety and may
have the nuisance abated immediately at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 1215, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 95.62 CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN.
   (A)   In a situation where the city has to perform an immediate abatement
that includes the closing or limiting of business or personal actions of an
individual, that business or individual shall have the right to submit to the
city in writing the actions the business or individual will take to bring
activity within the rules and/or recommended standards contained in the city
resolution declaring an emergency. Upon receipt of the written proposal, the
city will review the proposal within 48 hours exclusive of weekends or legal
holidays, and advise the business or individual whether the abatement will no
longer be necessary if the business or individual fulfills and follows the
existing regulations and properly adjusts activities to fit within those
regulations.
   (B)   Any business or individual aggrieved by any immediate abatement or
requirements being placed on the person's activities to be brought in
compliance with the city's resolution declaring an emergency may appeal the
action to the next City Council meeting that is at least 48 hours after the
filing of the notice of the request for hearing, exclusive of weekends and
legal holidays, wherein such filing is in writing and sets forth the reasons
why the business or individual believes their actions are within the
restrictions contained in the city's resolution declaring an emergency.
(Ord. 1215, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 95.63 REMEDIES AGAINST NUISANCE GENERALLY.
   In the enforcement of the city's resolution declaring an emergency, the city
shall also have an additional rights and remedies against nuisance as exists
under common law and under state statute including, but not limited to, SDCL §
9-29-13 and SDCL Chap, 21-10.
(Ord. 1215, passed 8-17-2020)
NOISE
§ 95.70 UNLAWFUL NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to create disruptive noise between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   Disruptive noise is a type of sound and is defined as unwanted,
annoying, unpleasant or loud.
Types:
      (1)   Continuous noise is noise that is produced continuously, for
example, by machinery that keeps running without interruption or loud music
that carries sound more than 100 feet outdoors
      (2)   Intermittent noise is a noise level that increases and decreases
rapidly, This might be caused by a revving a car engine repeatedly, train
passing by, or aircraft flying above your house.
      (3)   Impulsive noise is most commonly associated with the construction
and demolition industry. These sudden bursts of noise can startle you by their
fast and surprising nature and may include the starting of a lawn mower,
motorcycle or other un-muffled power equipment.
      (4)   Low-frequency noise includes the hum of a nearby power station or
the roaring of large diesel engines. It also happens to be the hardest type of
noise to reduce at source, so it can easily spread for miles around.
(Ord. 1215, passed 8-17-2020) Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in an amount as set by the City
Council from time to time, per violation, with each day constituting a separate
violation.
   (B)   In addition to penalties or other remedies allowed by law, the city
reserves the right to refuse and terminate service to any building, structure
or property that is declared to be a public nuisance by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 18-A-01-06)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   LICENSES
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
112.   PAWNBROKERS
         
113.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
         
114.   PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
         
115.   TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
         
116.   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES
Section
Licensing Generally
   
110.01   License requirements
   
110.02   Issuance and term
Construction Contractor
   
110.15   Contractor license
   
110.16   License requirements
   
110.17   Classes of licenses
   
110.18   License fees and issuance
LICENSING GENERALLY
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When required. No person shall engage in any activity within the
corporate boundaries of the city for which a license is required without first
having obtained a license as required by ordinance. All licenses issued in the
city shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter unless specified
otherwise. Licenses subject to this chapter shall include, but are not limited
to:
      (1)   Carnival/circus/tent show (
Chapter 114);
      (2)   Cemetery contractor license (
Chapter 91);
      (3)   Construction contractor license (
Chapter 110);
      (4)   Dog license (
Chapter 90);
      (5)   Excavation contractor (
Chapter 94);
      (6)   Mobile home parks (
Chapter 151);
      (7)   Peddlers, solicitors, transient merchants (
Chapter 113);
      (8)   Second hand and pawn shops (
Chapter 112);
      (9)   Solid waste haulers (
Chapter 50);
      (10)   Taxicabs and busses (
Chapter 115); and
      (11)   Adult oriented businesses (
Chapter 155).
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, an applicant for a license shall make
and file an application to the city in writing on a form provided by the city.
Such application shall contain such information as required by the licensing
authority or as provided by ordinance, and must show that the applicant is
eligible for the license for which application is made. The applicant shall
verify the application with a government issued photo identification card.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided, an applicant for a license shall state:
         (a)   Name and physical address of applicant;
         (b)   Mailing address;
         (c)   Trade name, if any, under which license is to be exercised;
         (d)   If a partnership, the name and address of each partner;
         (e)   If a corporation, the names and addresses of the officers;
         (f)   Place of business or location where the license is to be
exercised;
         (g)   Description of the activity to be carried on under the license;
         (h)   Such information as required by ordinance or by the City Council
showing the applicant is entitled to the license and that he or she is a proper
person, and the place a proper place for the exercise thereof; and
         (i)   Such information as required by ordinance as may be necessary
for determination of the amount of the license fee.
   (C)   Approval of required bond, insurance or deposit. Any bond, liability
insurance or deposit required shall be subject to the approval of the City
Council, and in case the City Council deems the security inadequate, it may
require new or additional security.
   (D)   Payment of fee. Except as otherwise provided, an applicant for license
shall first pay the amount of the license fee to the Finance Officer, taking
his or her receipt, therefore showing the kind of license for which the fee was
paid and the amount paid.
(Prior Code, § 11-A-01)
§ 110.02 ISSUANCE AND TERM.
   (A)   Issuance. Except as otherwise provided, all licenses shall be issued
by the Finance Officer if the issuance of the license is approved by the
licensing authority and the applicant has complied with all requirements for
issuance of the license. Unless otherwise provided, all licenses shall be
signed by the Finance Officer and shall have affixed thereto the official seal
of the city.
   (B)   Posting and exhibition. Every person to whom a license is issued by
the city shall keep the same posted in a conspicuous place in the licensed
place of business or vehicle; or if there is no place of business or vehicle,
then he or she shall exhibit the license to any person in authority or to any
person who may deal with the licensee when required to do so.
   (C)   Term. Unless otherwise provided, all annual licenses shall take effect
when issued and shall terminate on December 31 in the year for which issued.
   (D)   Change of name. If a licensee changes the name or form of organization
under which he or she does business, the license may be so changed without
payment of an additional fee except as otherwise provided by law.
   (E)   Registry. The Finance Officer shall keep a registry listing, under
their proper headings, all licenses that have been issued, giving the name of
the licensee and the place of business.
   (F)   Cancellation. 
      (1)   The City Council shall have the power to cancel any license issued
by the city for failure of the licensee to comply with any ordinance or
regulation of the city or state law respecting such license or the manner of
exercise thereof or for other good cause after hearing upon notice to the
licensee.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a violation of any ordinance of the city by the
licensee relating to the exercise of such license, the court, in addition to
other penalties imposed, may enter its judgment canceling such license.
(Prior Code, § 11-A-03)
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTOR
§ 110.15 CONTRACTOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this license requirement is to protect the
public welfare by assuring that those undertaking the construction, alteration,
repair or demolition of structures and other construction activities are
qualified to perform such services and maintain insurance responsibilities for
the protection of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALTERATION. As defined in the International Existing Building Code.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR. The person under the direction of the Building
Official responsible for duties relating to the Building Department.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The appointed official responsible for the
administration and enforcement of the city’s codes and ordinances regulating
construction, use or occupancy of buildings and structures, public or private.
      CONSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, cement or concrete
contracting; masonry contracting; carpenter contracting; excavation
contracting; demolition; tree cutting or trimming; underground sprinkler system
installation; all building trade contracting which includes within limitation
to electrical, plumbing, roofing, remodeling, siding, rough framing; all phases
of new construction, alterations, additions, repairs and demolition of
structures; street, sidewalk and pavement contracting and any items requiring a
permit within the licensing jurisdictional limits of the city.
      CONTRACTOR, CLASS A. The individual or company that is the general
contractor, project administrator or project manager in charge of any
construction project up to $500,000.
      CONTRACTOR, CLASS A-2. The individual or company that is the general
contractor, project administrator or project manager in charge of any
construction project in excess of $500,000.
      CONTRACTOR CLASS B.
         (a)   A construction contractor for a construction project that does
not exceed $35,000 in total valuation; or
         (b)   A sub-contractor on construction project whose part or portion
contracted for does not exceed 25% of the total valuation of the project.
      CONTRACTOR CLASS C. An individual or company for hire as a Class C
contractor as required in this subchapter.
      CONTRACTOR, DRY WALL/SHEET ROCK. An individual or company for hire for
the installation of gypsum board in new construction or alterations, excluding
repairs or replacement not to exceed $1,000 in total valuation.
      CONTRACTOR, GENERAL. The primary contractor hired by the consumer to be
responsible for overseeing the entire construction project. The GENERAL
CONTRACTOR is the contractor named on the building permit application as the
GENERAL CONTRACTOR. The GENERAL CONTRACTOR pays the 2% state excise tax for the
project and is responsible for issuing the excise tax exemption certificate to
the sub-contractors.
      CONTRACTOR, HVAC. Individuals or companies who install heating,
ventilation and/or air conditioning systems. The term shall not include the
servicing of existing units.
      CONTRACTOR, LANDSCAPE. An individual or company for hire for the purpose
of grading, re-grading or landscaping properties, the scope of which requires
that a site development permit be obtained in accordance with the city’s
erosion and sediment control ordinance (Chapter 152).
      CONTRACTOR, PAVING CONTRACTOR. A company who advertises for hire to pave
streets, alleys, driveways, parking lots and similar areas. The term shall not
include flat work as defined herein.
      CONTRACTOR, ROOFING. An individual or company for hire to install or
replace residential or commercial roof coverings and/or roof decking. The term
shall not include roof repairs to residential use structures provided that the
scope of the work does not exceed 100 square feet of area.
      CONTRACTOR, SIDING. An individual or company for hire to install
residential or commercial siding on structures, excluding repairs or
replacement not to exceed $1,000 in total valuation.
      CONTRACTOR, TREE SERVICE. Any individual or company for hire for the
cutting or trimming of trees and tree limbs above ten feet from the adjacent
grade with a boom or bucket truck. The term shall not include ground-level work
on trees, bushes or shrubbery or the chipping of the same.
      CONTRACTOR, UNDERGROUND SPRINKLER SYSTEM INSTALLATION. An individual or
company for hire to install underground sprinkler systems when that installer
connects that system to the municipal water supply. The term shall not apply to
the service or repair of existing systems or to installers who utilize licensed
plumbers to connect to the municipal water supply.
      EMPLOYEE. A person whose compensation for construction work is reported
by the employer or an Internal Revenue Service W-2 Form and is also otherwise
considered an employee under applicable law.
      FLAT WORK. Concrete sidewalks or driveways not more than 30 inches above
grade, not over any basement or story below, and not more than six inches in
thickness.
      RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL BUILDING CONTRACTOR. An individual,
proprietorship, partnership, firm or corporation who for compensation
undertakes or offers to undertake residential and/or commercial building
contracting.
      RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL CONTRACTING. Any enlargement, alteration, repair,
improvement, conversion or new construction of any single-family or multi-
family dwelling, any commercial structure, or any accessory structure or
building which would require a building permit.
      SPEC HOME or SPECULATION HOME.
         (a)   New residential construction or the remodeling of an existing
structure by the person who owns the land with the intent that upon completion
of the project the property will be sold.
         (b)   New residential construction or the remodeling of an existing
structure by the person who owns the land where the structure is not occupied
by the owner and is used for rental or income purposes.
         (c)   New residential construction or the remodeling of an existing
structure by the person who owns the land, where the structure is sold within
four years of completion of the project.
      SUB-CONTRACTOR. A contractor who is hired by the general contractor for
special or specific jobs on a project which the sub-contractor has been listed
as a sub-contractor on the building permit application.
(Prior Code, § 11-A-03)
§ 110.16 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   License required, exemptions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons representing or
operating under the auspices of a firm or corporation to conduct, carry on or
engage in the business of residential or commercial contracting work which
requires a building permit to be obtained from the city or act in the capacity
of a contractor of the same without first being approved by the city and having
had issued to them a valid contractor’s license by the City Building Official.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, proprietorship,
partnership, firm or corporation who is in the business of:
            1.   Asphalt or concrete paving;
            2.   Siding installation;
            3.   “Spec home” building;
            4.   Roofing;
            5.   Demolition;
            6.   Tree cutting or trimming;
            7.   Dry-wall installation;
            8.   Underground sprinkler system installation;
            9.   Landscaping; or
            10.   Heating-ventilation-air conditioning (HVAC) installations.
         (b)   As defined in this chapter, to act in the capacity of a
contractor without first being approved by the city and having had issued to
them a valid contractor’s license by the City Building Official.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Employees or bona fide subcontractors of a person licensed in
accordance with this chapter when they are under the directions and control of
that person as provided herein.
      (2)   A property owner for residential construction to be done on his or
her own property which he or she occupies as his or her own home or will occupy
as his or her home when the property owner is performing his or her own work.
      (3)   A landlord for work to be done on his or her property when the
landlord is performing his or her own work.
      (4)   A homeowner who builds, constructs, alters, repairs, adds to or
demolishes any building or structure or any portion thereof that constitutes
the owner’s residence or a building or structure accessory thereto that is
intended for the owner’s personal use when the homeowner is performing the
work. An owner may build not more than one single-family dwelling in a three-
year period without obtaining a contractor’s license, provided he or she
occupies the dwelling for a minimum of one year after the final inspection is
approved and/or a certificate of occupancy is issued for the structure.
      (5)   Home repair or handyman service which provides services which are
exempt from requiring a building permit or services otherwise expressly
exempted from the licensing requirements.
(Prior Code, § 11-A-04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.17 CLASSES OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Class A-2 contractor.
      (1)   General contractor, project administrator or project manager in
charge of any construction project in excess of $500,000.
      (2)   License is job-specific, subject to renewal for the life of the
project. At the time the specific project is completed the license will
automatically revert to a Class A license and may be renewed as such the
following year for the applicable renewal fee in an amount as set by the City
Council from time to time.
      (3)   Class A-2 contractors have the option of listing sub-contractors on
a job-specific exemption form. Sub-contractors listed on the exemption form
shall be exempt from local licensing requirements for that project.
      (4)   Applicant shall provide four verifiable references as to services
rendered in the capacity that the license application is being made.
      (5)   Applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance for business
liability insurance in the amount sufficient for the specific project
valuation.
      (6)   Applicant shall provide proof of worker’s compensation insurance
where required.
   (B)   Class A contractor.
      (1)   General contractor, project administrator or project manager in
charge of any construction project not to exceed $500,000, with the exception
of “cookie cutter” construction projects such as strip malls and motels not
exceeding two stories, subject to approval of the Building Official.
      (2)   Class A contractors, when acting in the capacity of the general
contractor, have the option of listing sub-contractors on a job-specific
exemption form. Sub-contractors listed on the exemption form shall be exempt
from local licensing requirements for that project.
      (3)   Applicant shall provide four verifiable references as to services
rendered in the capacity that the license application is being made.
      (4)   Applicant shall be required to pass a written 75 question test with
a minimum 80% score, except that the Building Official may waive this
requirement where applicant provides a verifiable license or certification that
is equal to or greater than local requirements.
      (5)   Applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance for business
liability insurance in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 or in the amount
sufficient for the specific project valuation, whichever is greater.
      (6)   Applicant shall provide proof of worker’s compensation insurance
where required.
   (C)   Class B contractor.
      (1)   Any contractor acting as a general contractor in charge of any
construction project not in excess of $35,000, or any sub-contractor as defined
in this chapter whose part or portion of a project sub-contracted for does not
exceed 30% of the total valuation of the project on which they are listed.
      (2)   Applicant shall provide four verifiable references as to services
rendered in the capacity that the license application is being made.
      (3)   Applicant shall be required to pass a written 50-question test with
a minimum 80% score, except that the Building Official may waive this
requirement where applicant provides a verifiable license or certification that
is equal to or greater than local requirements.
      (4)   Applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance for business
liability insurance in the minimum amount of $500,000 or in the amount
sufficient for the specific project valuation, whichever is greater.
      (5)   Applicant shall provide proof of worker’s compensation insurance
where required.
   (D)   Class C Contractor.
      (1)   Any individual or company for hire to provide the services of a
paving contractor, siding contractor, tree service contractor, dry wall/sheet
rock contractor, HVAC contractor, underground sprinkler systems installation
contractor or landscape contractor, all as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   The application shall indicate the service or services that
applicant wishes to be licensed for, the application will be reviewed and
processed accordingly.
      (3)   Applicant shall provide four verifiable references as to services
rendered in the capacity that the license application is being made.
      (4)   Applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance for business
liability insurance in the minimum amount of $500,000.
      (5)   Applicant shall provide proof of worker’s compensation insurance
where required.
   (E)   Subcontractors. Any person doing business as a subcontractor shall be
construed as engaged in the business of construction for which a license is
required by this chapter unless the subcontractor falls under an exemption.
   (F)   Contractor exemption form. It shall be an option of a Class A and
Class A-2 general contractors to list sub-contractors of a specific project on
a contractor’s exemption form releasing those listed sub-contractors from the
licensing requirement of the city, thus accepting the responsibility for those
sub-contractors and the service provided by them as the general contractor
responsible for the project in questions. No one contractor, sub-contractor or
individual shall be listed exempt on more than three occasions in any one
license year.
   (G)   Worker’s compensation, statement of non-participation. It shall be
required that any general contractor making application for a contractor’s
license with the city shall provide the city with copy of their worker’s
compensation insurance, or complete the statement of non-participation on a
form provided by the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-A-05)
§ 110.18 LICENSE FEES AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Licensing fees.
      (1)   Class A-2 contractor license fee:
         (a)   Two hundred dollars; job specific;
         (b)   Renewal fee in an amount as set by the City Council from time to
time for the life of the project; and
         (c)   At the time the project is completed the license shall
automatically revert to a Class A license and may be renewed as such for the
applicable renewal fee in an amount as set by the City Council from time to
time.
      (2)   Class A contractor license fee shall be an amount as set by the
City Council from time to time.
      (3)   Class B contractor license fee shall be an amount as set by the
City Council from time to time.
      (4)   Class C contractor license fee shall be an amount as set by the
City Council from time to time.
      (5)   Application for license renewal shall be made of a form provided by
the city.
      (6)   For all classes of licenses, if the license is not renewed prior to
the expiration date and the contractor has a job in progress, the renewal fee
will be increased by a factor of two.
      (7)   “Up-grading” to a higher class license shall require application
for that license.
   (B)   Issuance of licenses.
      (1)   Applications, along with the required fee, shall be submitted to
the Building Official; the application shall state:
         (a)   The contractor’s license number;
         (b)   The name of the business;
         (c)   The business’s physical and mailing address;
         (d)   The business’s phone number;
         (e)   The business owner’s name;
         (f)   The owner’s physical and mailing address;
         (g)   The owner’s phone number;
         (h)   The owner’s South Dakota Excise Tax License number;
         (i)   Business liability insurance policy number (copy required);
         (j)   Worker’s compensation insurance policy number (copy required) or
statement of non-participation;
         (k)   Number of years’ experience;
         (l)   Number of years in business;
         (m)   Type of contracting or service provided;
         (n)   Trade school attended, degree or certificate earned, years
attended; and
         (o)   Four verifiable references.
      (2)   After the application is reviewed by the Building Official, the
Building Official shall have the discretion to deny an application for license
if:
         (a)   The application or applicant has made false statements on the
application or to the Building Official;
         (b)   If the applicant has a current stop work order issued against
him or her that has not been satisfied;
         (c)   If the Building Official has received or obtained additional
information to substantiate that the applicant would be unfit to hold the
license he or she is applying for;
         (d)   If the applicant has negotiated a contract to perform services
without being licensed;
         (e)   If the contractor has engaged in substantiated fraud or
misrepresentation;
         (f)   If the references that the applicant has given do not
demonstrate that the applicant was either the project manager or in a position
of direct responsibility for a project similar to the type of license the
applicant is applying for, then the application may be denied. If the
verifiable references do not satisfy the Building Inspector, the Building
Inspector may contact the applicant to give him or her an opportunity to
provide other verifiable references; or
         (g)   If the applicant fails to meet any requirements of licensing
contained in this chapter or otherwise.
      (3)   If the application is approved, the contractor’s license shall be
issued within 15 days of the date of application.
      (4)   If the applicant is denied a license for any reason, the Building
Official must provide the applicant a written denial listing the reason(s) for
the denial within 15 days of the date of application. The written denial must
include the process for appealing the Building Official’s decision. If the
application is denied, the applicant’s license application fee may be returned
to the applicant upon the return of any and all books, forms or documents
received by the applicant during the application process.
   (C)   License suspensions, revocations and denials of licenses.
      (1)   Any contractor’s license may be suspended, revoked or denied by the
Building Official for blatant and/or repeated violations of any ordinance,
building codes or any other reasons which shall be substantiated and properly
documented. Such suspensions, revocations or denials may be in addition to any
fine imposed for violating this subchapter.
      (2)   A contractor’s license may be denied by the Building Inspector if
for any reason the applicant for such license does not meet the licensing
criteria or other applicable criteria or requirement.
      (3)   If a contractor’s license is denied, all work that he or she has
been performing will be suspended until a final decision has been reached in
the appeals process provided herein.
   (D)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeals to any decision of the Building Inspector must be made to
the City Council.
      (2)   An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted there under have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or
that a request to use an alternate material, design or method of construction
under § R104.11 has been requested and denied.
      (3)   Appeals to the decisions of the Building Official must be made
within 30 days of action of the Building Official and shall be on a form
supplied by the city. Failure to appeal within 30 days will constitute a waiver
of all right to an administrative hearing and a decision on the matter.
      (4)   Appeals shall be heard at a regularly scheduled City Council
meeting within 30 days of the date of the Building Official’s written order.
      (5)   Upon review, the Council may affirm, modify or reverse the action
of the Building Official. Upon good cause the Council can order the issuance of
a license after a review.
      (6)   If the appellant requests the Council to conduct the review at a
special meeting, the appellant shall bear the cost for the special meeting.
   (E)   Fines. In addition to fines and fees specifically addressed by code or
by ordinance, violations shall be subject to the city code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 11-A-06) (Ord. 1105, passed 5-24-2011)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions; general provisions
   
111.02   Classes
   
111.03   Sale and purchase
   
111.04   Special sale license
   
111.05   Consumption license
   
111.06   Abutting sidewalk license
   
111.07   Restaurant license
   
111.08   Farm wines
   
111.09   Artesian distiller
   
111.10   Municipal licenses
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages as
defined in this chapter.
      DISTILLED SPIRITS. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, spirits of
wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin and other distilled spirits, including all
dilutions and mixtures thereof, for non-industrial use, containing not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by weight.
      MALT BEVERAGE. A beverage made by the alcoholic fermentation of an
infusion or decoction, or combination of both, in potable brewing water, of
malted barley and hops, or their parts, or their products, and with or without
other malted cereals, and with or without the addition of un-malted or prepared
cereals, other carbohydrates or products prepared therefrom, and with or
without the addition of carbon dioxide, and without or without other wholesome
products suitable for human consumption, containing not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by weight.
      OFF-SALE. The sale of any alcoholic beverage, for consumption off the
premises where sold.
      ON-SALE. The sale of any alcoholic beverage for consumption only upon the
premises where sold.
      ON-SALE DEALER. Any person who sells, or keeps for sale, any alcoholic
beverage for consumption on the premises where sold.
      PACKAGE. The bottle or immediate container of any alcoholic beverage.
      PACKAGE DEALER. Any person, other than a distiller, manufacturer or
wholesaler, who sells or keeps for sale, any alcoholic beverage for consumption
off the premises where sold.
      RETAIL LICENSE. Any on- or off-sale license issued under the provisions
of this chapter.
      RETAILER or RETAIL DEALER. Any person who sells alcoholic beverages for
other than resale.
      SALE. The transfer, for a consideration, of title to any alcoholic
beverage.
      WHOLESALER. Any person who sells alcoholic beverages to retailers for
resale.
      WINE. Any liquid either commonly used or reasonably adapted to use, for
beverage purposes, and obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar
content of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar and
containing not less than 0.5% of alcohol by weight but not more than 24% of
alcohol by weight.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   No person shall produce, transport, store or sell any alcoholic
beverage except as authorized under the provisions of this chapter and SDCL
Title 35.
      (2)   No person may transact any business authorized by this chapter
without a license as provided by this chapter and SDCL Title 35.
      (3)   A bottle club, being an establishment not licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages, which allows persons to bring their own alcoholic
beverages on the premises for the purpose of consumption and where the
proprietor sells or provides soft drinks, mix or ice on the premises, or
charges for bringing such alcoholic beverages, soft drinks or ice on the
premises, is prohibited.
      (4)   No person shall consume distilled spirits in any public place,
other than upon the premises of an on-sale dealer that is licensed to sell
distilled spirits or upon the location set forth in a permit granted by §
111.05. For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE means any place, whether
in or out of a building, commonly and customarily open to or used by the
general public and any street or highway.
      (5)   Prior authorization for persons to consume or blend alcoholic
beverages, but not to engage in the sale thereof, in or upon property described
by the municipality, which property is publicly owned, or owned by a nonprofit
corporation, may be authorized by the governing body for a period not to exceed
24 hours, and hours of authorized consumption shall not exceed those permitted
for on-sale licensees.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person occupying a motor vehicle
located upon a public highway or the right-of-way of a public highway to
consume any alcoholic beverage or have a package or any receptacle containing
any alcoholic beverage in his or her possession in a motor vehicle unless the
seal of the original package remains unbroken or the alcoholic beverage is so
removed that no occupant of the motor vehicle shall have access to it while the
vehicle is in motion.
   (C)   “Operating agreement” defined. For the purposes of this chapter, an
entity that has entered into an operating agreement with a municipality
pursuant to §
111.10 shall be deemed a licensee. The number of operating agreements that a
municipality may enter into may not exceed the maximum number of retail
licenses that may be issued pursuant to SDCL Title 35.
(Prior Code, § 3A-01) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-9-2014)
§ 111.02 CLASSES.
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages. The provisions of this section, unless the
context otherwise clearly requires, shall be construed to relate to all
alcoholic beverages, including distilled spirits, wines and malt beverages.
   (B)   Classifications and fees. Classifications and fees for on-sale and
off-sale dealers, shall be as follows.
      (1)   Off-sale dealer, any person who sells or keeps for sale any
alcoholic beverage, for consumption off the premises where sold. License fee is
not more than an amount as set by the City Council from time to time.
      (2)   On-sale dealer, any person who sells or keeps for sale any
alcoholic beverage, other than pursuant to another license under this chapter,
for consumption on the premises where sold. License fee is in an amount as set
by the City Council from time to time.
      (3)   Wine retailers, being both package dealers and on-sale dealers.
License fee is in an amount as set by the City Council from time to time.
      (4)   Malt beverage retailers: any person who sells or keeps for sale,
other than resale, malt beverages as both package dealers and on-sale dealers.
The license fee is in an amount as set by the City Council from time to time.
      (5)   Malt beverage package dealers: any person who keeps for sale or
sells malt beverages for consumption off the premises where sold. The license
fee is in an amount as set by the City Council from time to time.
      (6)   Off-sale package wine dealers in table wines, sparkling wines,
sacramental wines and distilled spirits produced from product provided to an
artesian distiller by the respective farm winery to be operated in conjunction
with a farm winery established pursuant to §
111.08. License fee is not more than an amount as set by the City Council from
time to time.
   (C)   No delivery outside premises. No off-sale licensee shall make any
delivery of alcoholic beverages outside of the premises described in his or her
license.
   (D)   Service on licensed premises only. No on-sale licensee shall serve
alcoholic beverages except on the premises authorized by his or her license.
   (E)   Service by persons 18 and older. No on-sale licensee shall permit any
person less than 21 years old to loiter on the licensed premises or to sell,
serve, dispense or consume alcoholic beverages on such premises. However, an
on-sale licensee licensed pursuant to divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) and may
permit persons 18 years old or older to sell or serve or dispense alcoholic
beverages if less than 50% of the gross business transacted by the
establishment is from the sale of alcoholic beverages and the licensee or an
employee that is at least 21 years of age is on the premises when the alcoholic
beverage is sold or dispensed. For the purposes of this section, the term TO
SELL AND SERVE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES means to take order for alcoholic beverages
and to deliver alcoholic beverages to customers as a normal adjunct of waiting
tables. The term does not include tending bar or drawing or mixing alcoholic
beverages.
   (F)   Service by persons 18 and older. No off-sale licensee, licensed
pursuant to division (B)(1) and (B)(4) above, shall permit any person less than
21 years old to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages on the licensed
premises unless such sales of alcoholic beverages constitutes less than 50% of
the gross business transacted by that establishment. If alcoholic beverage
sales constitute less than 50% of the gross business transacted by the
establishment, the licensee may permit person 18 years old or older to sell,
serve or dispense alcoholic beverages.
   (G)   Hours and days of sale for alcoholic beverages includes Memorial Day
and Sundays. No on-sale or off-sale licensee licensed under divisions (B)(1)
and (B)(2) above may sell, serve, or allow to be consumed on the premises
covered by the license, alcoholic beverages between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
7:00 a.m. or anytime on Christmas Day. The sale, service and consumption of
alcoholic beverages on Sunday and Memorial Day is allowed.
   (H)   Hours of sale for malt beverage and wine dealers. No on-sale or off-
sale licensee licensed under §
111.02(B)(3) or (B)(4), may sell, serve, or allow to be consumed on the
premises covered by the license, alcoholic beverages between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 7:00 a.m. or anytime on Christmas Day. The sale, service and
consumption of alcoholic beverages on Sunday and Memorial Day is allowed.
   (I)   On-sale dealer cannot sell packaged alcohol. No person shall buy from
any on-sale dealer any alcoholic beverage, except for malt beverage retailers
being both package dealers and on-sale dealers, in a package, whether sealed or
unsealed, or whether full or partially full.
   (J)   Sales to intoxicated person prohibited. No licensee shall sell any
alcoholic beverage to any person who is obviously intoxicated at the time.
   (K)   Licensee prevent intoxication. No licensee may permit any person to
become intoxicated on the premises described on the license.
(Prior Code, § 3A-02) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-9-2014; Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 SALE AND PURCHASE.
   (A)   Sale of alcoholic beverages under age 18 years. It is a Class 1
misdemeanor, pursuant to SDCL § 35-9-1, to sell or give for use as a beverage
any alcoholic beverage to any person under the age of 18 years unless:
      (1)   It is done in the immediate presence of a parent or guardian or
spouse, who is at least 21 years of age, while not on the premises of an
establishment licensed for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages pursuant to
SDCL § 35-4-2 or at a special event for which an alcoholic beverage license has
been issued; or
      (2)   It is done by prescription or direction of a duly licensed
practitioner or nurse of the healing arts for medicinal purposes.
   (B)   Sale of alcoholic beverages age 18 years but less that 21 years of
age. It shall be unlawful to sell or give for use as a beverage any alcoholic
beverage to any person who is 18 years of age or older but less than 21 years
of age unless:
      (1)   It is done in the immediate presence of a parent or guardian or
spouse over 21 years of age; or
      (2)   It is done by prescription or direction of a duly licensed
practitioner or nurse of the healing arts for medicinal purposes.
   (C)   Unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years of age. It shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years of age to purchase, attempt
to purchase, or possess or consume alcoholic beverages except pursuant to
division (B) above or when consumed in a religious ceremony and given to the
person by an authorized person, or to misrepresent his or her age with the use
of any document for the purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase
alcoholic beverages for any licensee licensed under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3A-04) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-9-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 SPECIAL SALE LICENSE.
   (A)   Special alcoholic beverage licenses. Special alcoholic beverage
licenses may be issued in conjunction with special events.
      (1)   A special malt beverage retailers license may be issued in
conjunction with a special event with the municipality to any civic,
charitable, educational, fraternal or veterans organization or any licensee
licensed pursuant to §
111.02(B)(1), in addition to any other license held by the special events
license applicant;
      (2)   A special on-sale wine retailers license in conjunction with a
special event within the municipality to any civic, charitable, educational,
fraternal or veterans organization or any licensee licensed pursuant to §
111.02(B)(1) and (B)(2), in addition to any other licenses held by the special
events license applicant;
      (3)   A special on-sale license in conjunction with a special event
within the municipality to any civic, charitable, educational, fraternal or
veterans organization or any licensee licensed pursuant to §
111.02(B)(1) in addition to any other licenses held by the special events
license applicant; or
      (4)   A special off-sale package wine dealers license in conjunction with
a special event within the municipality to any civic, charitable, educational
and fraternal or veteran organizations or any licensee licensed pursuant to §
111.02(B)(2) or (B)(3), in addition to any other licenses held by the special
events license applicant.
   (B)   License fee. A licenses issued pursuant to this section shall be
issued to the organization and location specified on the application. The fee
for this license is in an amount as set by the City Council from time to time
per day.
   (C)   Period not to exceed 15 days. A license issued pursuant to this
section shall be for a period not to exceed 15 consecutive days.
   (D)   Application from City Finance Office. 
      (1)   Applications for special licenses shall be made on forms available
from the City Finance Office. The application shall be verified by the oath of
the applicant, if an individual, and if a business entity, by an officer of the
business entity. The applicant must provide documentation that it is eligible
for the license for which application is being made. The application shall be
submitted to the City Finance Officer or City Administrator, who shall submit
such application to the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council may approve or disapprove the application based on
the suitability of the applicant and the location of the proposed license.
         (a)   Sale by non-profit on public property under temporary license.
The municipality may permit the sale of alcoholic beverages on publicly owned
property or property owned by a nonprofit corporation if it is during a special
event for which a temporary license has been issued pursuant to this section.
         (b)   Limit on number of special license. The number of special
licenses that may be issued to any person or business entity within any
calendar year is 30.
   (E)   Street dance organizer responsible for security personnel. If an
organization receiving a license pursuant to this section conducts a street
dance in conjunction with the special event, the organization shall provide
qualified security personnel to maintain order during the dance.
(Prior Code, § 3A-05) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-9-2014)
§ 111.05 CONSUMPTION LICENSE.
   (A)   Consumption on public property. Upon application the municipality may
allow the consumption of alcoholic beverage on property owned by the public or
by a nonprofit corporation within the municipality. The permit period may not
exceed 24 hours and the hours of authorized consumption may not exceed those
permitted for on-sale licensees. There will be no application fee.
   (B)   Consumption license procedure. The application process for the license
to consume on property owned by the public or nonprofit corporation is the same
as for a special license in §
111.04(D).
(Prior Code, § 3A-06) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-9-2014)
§ 111.06 ABUTTING SIDEWALK LICENSE.
   The consumption and sale of alcoholic beverages on a sidewalk or walkway
subject to a public right-of-way abutting a licensed premises, provided that
the license holder derives more than 50% of its gross receipts from the sale of
prepared food for consumption on the premises, is permitted under certain
conditions:
   (A)   The hours of authorized sale and consumption are the same as the
licensed premises;
   (B)   The sidewalk or right-of-way abuts the licensed premises; and
   (C)   The sidewalk or right-of-way does not abut a federal-aid eligible
highway unless approved in accordance with the applicable requirements for the
receipt of federal aid.
(Prior Code, § 3A-07) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-9-2014)
§ 111.07 RESTAURANT LICENSE.
   (A)   Restaurant license. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BAR. Any permanently installed counter within the restaurant area from
which alcoholic beverages are regularly served to customers by a person which
is tending bar or drawing or mixing alcoholic beverages.
      CURRENT FAIR MARKET VALUE. The documented price of the on-sale license
most recently sold between January 1, 2003 and January 1, 2008, through an
arm’s length transaction, less the value of any real or personal property
included with the transaction.
      FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT. Any restaurant at which a waiter or waitress
delivers food and drink offered from a printed food menu to patrons at tables,
booths or the bar. Any restaurant that only serves fry orders or foodstuffs
such as sandwiches, hamburgers or salads is not a FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT.
      RESTAURANT. Any area in a building maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where individually processed meals are prepared and
served primarily for consumption in such area and where at least 60% of the
gross revenue of the restaurant is derived from the sale of food and
nonalcoholic beverages. The restaurant shall have a dining room, or rooms, a
kitchen, and the number and kinds of employees necessary for the preparing,
cooking and servicing of meals.
   (B)   Confidential documents regarding primary source of revenue. An
applicant for a full-service restaurant on-sale license shall provide
sufficient documentation to the governing body upon an application form
provided by the municipality to prove that the primary source of revenue from
the operation of the restaurant will be derived from the sale of prepared food
and nonalcoholic beverages and not from the sale of alcoholic beverages. The
supporting documentation concerning the primary source of revenue submitted
pursuant to this section is confidential.
   (C)   Annual report required. The full-service restaurant licensee shall
submit on forms provided by the municipality an annual report. Forms shall
include an oath verifying the validity of the information provided in the
report. The report and the supporting documentation submitted pursuant to this
section are confidential. The report shall include the annual gross sales of
the licensee for the following two categories:
      (1)   Food and nonalcoholic beverage sales; and
      (2)   Total gross revenues.
   (D)   Renewal. When renewing a full-service restaurant on-sale license, the
municipality shall condition the license renewal upon documents that at least
60% of gross revenue from the preceding 12 months operation of the full-service
restaurant was derived from the sale of food and nonalcoholic beverages.
   (E)   On-premises consumption. A full-service restaurant on-sale licensee
may only serve alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption in the bar and
dining room area of the restaurant.
   (F)   No smoking. No licensee that has a full-service restaurant on-sale
license may allow smoking on the licensed premises. A restaurant that has a
full-service restaurant on-sale license may only be advertised or held out to
the public as primarily a food eating establishment.
   (G)   License fee charge. The license fee charge for a full-service
restaurant on-sale license shall be at or above the current fair market value
for such license as determined herein; however, any fair market value so
established shall be a minimum of $1 for each person residing within the
municipality as measured by the last preceding decennial federal census.
      (1)   The license fee shall be initially established by resolution of the
City Council within 90 days of the adoption of this chapter; subsequent changes
to the license fee shall not be made for a period of ten years from the
effective date of this chapter, unless a growth in population reported by the
federal decennial census requires an increase in the fee.
      (2)   Within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter, each licensee
within the municipality who owns an on-sale license issued pursuant to SDCL §
35-4-2(4) or (6) as of January 1, 2008, and who purchased the license or had
the license transferred to such licensee at any time between January 1, 2003,
and January 1, 2008, shall report the amount originally paid for the on-sale
license to the City Finance Officer on forms provided by the city. Any form
submitted pursuant to this provision shall be signed under oath and shall
include the documents establishing the amount originally paid for the on-sale
licensee. If the transaction for the purchase of the on-sale license included
real or personal property, the full market value of the real or personal
property on the date of the original sale shall be deducted from the total
transaction price to determine the amount paid by the licensee for the on-sale
license. The burden of establishing the amount paid for the license shall be on
the licensee. Any licensee contesting the fair market value of the license on
the date of purchase may file an objection to the report. The objection shall
be filed with the municipality within 30 days of the date the license fee is
set. The determination of the governing board may be appealed to the Circuit
Court.
   (H)   License registry. As required by SDCL § 35-4-118, the municipality
shall maintain a registry of each full-service on-sale restaurant license that
is being offered for sale and the municipality shall furnish a copy of the
registry to anyone who requests a new full-service restaurant on-sale license.
The existing full-service restaurant on-sale licensee is responsible for
registering with the municipality that the full-service restaurant on-sale
license is for sale.
   (I)   New restaurant license. The municipality may only issue a new license
under this section if no on-sale license is on the registry or a person
desiring to purchase an on-sale license listed on the registry provides
documentation showing that the person is unable to purchase the on-sale license
at the price established in §
111.03 and on terms satisfactory to both the potential buyer and seller. The
price of any on-sale license registered with the municipality under §
111.03 shall be sold at the current fair market price set by the city pursuant
to the resolution adopted in accordance with §
111.07.
(Prior Code, § 3A-08) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-9-2014)
§ 111.08 FARM WINES.
   (A)   Farm wines. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FARM WINERY. Any winery producing table, sparkling or sacramental wines
as defined below, or wine, as defined below, with a majority of the ingredients
grown or produced in the state.
      TABLE, SPARKLING AND SACRAMENTAL WINES. Any beverage made without
rectification or fortification and containing not more than 24% alcohol by
volume and made by the fermentation of grapes, grape juice, other fruits or
honey.
      WINE. Any beverage made without rectification, except for the purpose of
fortification, from the fermentation of grapes, grape juice, other fruit bases
or honey without adding brandy or alcohol, and containing not less than 0.5%
and not more than 24% alcohol by volume.
   (B)   Farm winery license. The Secretary of the Department of Revenue may
issue a farm winery license to the owner or operator of a farm winery located
in the state producing wines as defined in division (A) above.
   (C)   On-sale license. The holder of a farm winery license is eligible for
an on-sale license issued pursuant to §
111.02(B), subject to the quota established by municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Off-sale license. The holder of a farm winery license may also hold on
the premises where the wine is produced, an off-sale license issued pursuant to
§
111.02(B)(4).
(Prior Code, § 3A-09) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-9-2014)
§ 111.09 ARTESIAN DISTILLER.
   (A)   ARTESIAN DISTILLER means any distiller located in the state that
produces, rectifies or blends 50,000 gallons or less of distilled spirits
annually.
   (B)   Artesian distiller license. The Secretary of the Department of Revenue
may issue an artesian distiller license to an artesian distiller.
   (C)   On-sale license. The holder of an artesian distiller license may hold
on the premises where the distilled spirits are produced, an on-sale license
issued pursuant to §
111.02(B), subject to the quota established by municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3A-10) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-9-2014)
§ 111.10 MUNICIPAL LICENSES.
   (A)   Duration of license.
      (1)   The period covered by licenses under this chapter is from 12:00
midnight on December 31 to 12:00 midnight December 31 of the next year.
However, the license is valid for an additional three days if a proper
application for a new license is in the possession of the Secretary before 12:
00 midnight on the period.
      (2)   The sale of malt beverages licenses shall be valid from 12:00
midnight on June 30 to 12:00 midnight on June 30 of the following year.
   (B)   Municipal application and renewal.
      (1)   Any application under SDCL Title 35 for a manufacturer, distiller,
wholesaler, solicitor, transporter, carrier or dispenser license, and any
application for a license to be issued to a municipality shall be initially
submitted to the Secretary, who may approve or disapprove the application
depending on whether the Secretary deems the applicant a suitable person to
hold the license and whether the Secretary considers the proposed location
suitable.
      (2)   Any application for a retail license, except as set forth in SDCL
Title 35, shall be submitted to the governing board of the municipality within
which the applicant intends to operate, the board may approve or disapprove the
application depending on whether the governing board deems the applicant a
suitable person to hold the license and whether the governing board considers
the proposed location suitable.
   (C)   Management of municipal liquor licenses.
      (1)   The governing body shall operate and conduct the municipal liquor
establishment and if necessary, shall set the prices to be charged on all sales
of liquor.
      (2)   Gross receipts are to be submitted to the municipal finance officer
and disbursements from the fund shall only be made with presentation of
verified vouchers.
      (3)   The municipality shall keep a separate accounting of all
transactions involving purchases, sales and inventories conducted under each
license.
      (4)   A municipality that holds an off-sale license pursuant to SDCL §
35-4-2(5) is eligible for a license under SDCL § 35-4-2(16) and any
municipality holding a license under SDCL Chapter 35-4 is eligible for a
retailers license under SDCL § 35-4-2.
      (5)   Upon termination of the license, the governing board shall
liquidate the business operated and the assets of the business in such a manner
as may be determined by resolution, and is consistent with law.
   (D)   Operating agreements.
      (1)   Licenses.
         (a)   On-sale and off-sale licenses. No retailer under this SDCL
Chapter 35-4, except for licenses issued pursuant to SDCL §§ 35-4-2(16), other
than to the municipality, may be granted to operate in any municipality which
has obtained a license under SDCL Chapter 35-4 except that:
         (b)   If a municipality has been issued an off-sale license only, then
the governing board may approve or disapprove applications for an on-sale
license as may be provided in SDCL Title 35; and
         (c)   The municipality, if it has both an on-sale and off-sale liquor
license, may by resolution enter into an operating agreement with any person
for the specific purpose of operating the on-sale establishment or the off-sale
establishment, or both for the municipality.
         (d)   The municipality may also enter into an operating agreement with
an individual to operate a malt beverage license that the municipality owns.
         (e)   Off-sale license only. If the municipality has only an off-sale
license, it may, by resolution, enter into an operating agreement with a
manager of a legitimate operating business concern for the specific purpose of
operating the off-sale establishment for the municipality.
      (2)   Provisions of agreement. The operating agreement must contain the
following provisions:
         (a)   The manager shall be responsible for all operating expenses
including, but not limited to, taxes, insurance and license fees;
         (b)   The manager will dispense only liquors dispensed by the
municipal off-sale establishment;
         (c)   The agreement will be for a period not to exceed five years with
an extension of five more years at the discretion of the governing body;
         (d)   Cancellation of the agreement is made upon 90-days written
notice by either party;
         (e)   The manager will pay for all the liquors supplied by the off-
sale establishment at actual cost including transportation charges, markup, and
such additional compensation or fee as may be agreed upon; and
         (f)   A complete and detailed record shall be maintained by the
municipality of all liquors supplied. The on-sale and such liquors so supplied
shall be evidenced by pre-numbered invoices prepared in triplicate showing the
date, quantity, brand, size and actual cost. Such invoices shall bear the
signature of the on-sale manager or his or her authorized representative. One
copy thereof shall be retained by the off-sale establishment, one copy shall be
retained by the on-sale establishment, and one copy shall be filed with the
Municipal Auditor or Clerk. All copies shall be kept as permanent records and
made available for reference and audit purposes.
      (3)   Purchase on credit. An operator may not purchase alcoholic
beverages on credit.
      (4)   Number of operating agreements. The number of operating agreements
the municipality may have is limited to the number of licenses a municipality
can issue.
   (E)   Municipality holding required license authorized to serve food,
prepared food and beverages. Any municipality holding a license pursuant to
SDCL Title 35 may serve or provide for the service of food, prepared food, and
beverages at any establishment operating under such license.
(Prior Code, § 3A-11) (Ord. 1142, passed 9-9-2014)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License
   
112.03   Fixed premises
   
112.04   Suspension, revocation of license
   
112.05   Separate license and bond for each place of business
   
112.06   Change in location of licensed premises
   
112.07   Records required
   
112.08   Inspection of records or license and pledged property
   
112.09   Pawn tickets
   
112.10   Reports to the Chief of Police; duty of Police Department
   
112.11   Holding period; exceptions
   
112.12   Pawned article to be held 40 days
   
112.13   Effect of hold order
   
112.14   Accepting articles from other than true owner
   
112.15   Unlawful transactions
   
112.16   Concealing articles to prevent identification
   
112.17   Examination of premises by city police officer
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. 
      (1)   Any person who:
         (a)   Engages in the business of lending money on the deposit or
pledge of personal property, other than choices in action, securities or
evidence of indebtedness; or
         (b)   Purchases personal property with an expressed or implied
agreement or understanding to sell it back at a stipulated price.
      (2)   Any PAWNBROKER may affect the purchase of second-hand personal
property for resale purposes under the terms of this chapter by acquiring any
pawn ticket of his or her own issue by transfer.
(Prior Code, § 15-1) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 112.02 LICENSE.
   No person shall carry on the business of pawnbroker without first applying
for and securing a license. The annual license fee for pawnbrokers shall be in
an amount as set by the City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 15-2) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 FIXED PREMISES.
   (A)   No person shall engage in business as a pawnbroker unless said person
has a fixed premises where said business is conducted, either on a continuing
basis or from time to time, and unless said person has first obtained a license
to engage in that business at the premises.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, FIXED PREMISES shall include any non-
mobile premises where such business is conducted and said owned or purchased
second-hand articles are held according to the provisions of § 112.11, whether
or not that premises remains in the same location during the period the license
is in effect.
(Prior Code, § 15-3) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license issued to a licensee under this chapter, who shall have
violated the provisions of this chapter, may be suspended for a prescribed
period not to exceed 60 days, in the event of a failure on the part of the
licensee to comply with the provisions of this chapter after ten days’ written
notice and a public hearing.
   (B)   A license issued to a licensee under this chapter, who shall have
violated the provisions of this chapter, may be revoked by the City Council
after ten days’ written notice and a public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 15-4)
§ 112.05 SEPARATE LICENSE AND BOND FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Any person, firm or corporation conducting several or separate places of
business shall pay the appropriate license fees and procure the appropriate
licenses and bonds for each place of business. The above mentioned proprietor’s
license shall be sufficient for all clerks, agents and employees engaged at the
place named in the license.
(Prior Code, § 15-5)
§ 112.06 CHANGE IN LOCATION OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   If, during the effective period of a license issued under this chapter, a
pawnbroker changes the location of the licensed premises within the city, such
dealer shall inform the City Finance Officer of such change of location and
shall have the new premises to be licensed noted on the license. There shall be
no additional fee charged for changing the location of the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 15-6) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 112.07 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep books or records of pawn tickets in a
manner satisfactory to the Chief of Police, where he or she shall accurately
and intelligibly enter, in ink, in the English language, at the time of
purchasing or receiving any personal property, and after requiring and
observing identification from the person seeking to pawn the property, a record
of the following information:
      (1)   The name of the person from whom the property is purchased or
received, his or her place of residence, and his or her date of birth;
      (2)   A detailed and accurate description of each article, which shall
include, if available, the manufacturer’s name, style, model number, serial
number, engraved initials or other identifying marks;
      (3)   The date and time of transaction;
      (4)   The amount necessary for redemption;
      (5)   The date when the article is to be redeemed; and
      (6)   Any mortgage or bill of sale taken, or receipt of pawn ticket
given.
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall also record the date of disposition or
redemption from pawn of said article or any part or portion thereof. Said
disposition report shall be located in the same book and at the same place
where the receiving records of said article are located.   
   (C)   Any person who fails to keep such records or fails to make the
required entries therein, or shall intentionally or knowingly make any false or
unintelligible entry, or any entry which he or she has reason to believe is
untrue, or who shall fail to produce his or her records when requested by the
city police officer during reasonable business hours, or who shall destroy or
willfully permit such records to be destroyed or lost, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (D)   The records required by this section shall be maintained for one year
after the date of purchase or receipt and shall be made available for
inspection to city police officers during reasonable business hours.
(Prior Code, § 15-7) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 112.08 INSPECTION OF RECORDS OR LICENSE AND PLEDGED PROPERTY.
   (A)   The books or records required by §
112.07 to be kept by pawnbrokers shall be open to the inspection of city police
officers during reasonable business hours.
   (B)   The pawnbroker shall produce and show any article pledged in
connection with any loan.
   (C)   The licenses required by §
112.02 for pawnbrokers shall at all times be on display in a conspicuous place
and available for inspection by city police officers during reasonable business
hours. This division (C) shall not apply when the license is being taken to the
City Finance Office to have a change of location recorded.
(Prior Code, § 15-8) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 112.09 PAWN TICKETS.
   At the time of receiving a pledge and upon the subsequent renewal of a loan,
the pawnbroker shall deliver to the pledger or his or her agent a pawn ticket,
which pawn ticket shall be correspondingly serially numbered, and shall contain
the following information: the name and address of the pawnbroker; a generic
description of the pledge with such particular details of description noted
whenever possible in order to distinguish the article or articles; the date and
time of the transaction; the amount, duration and terms of the loan. The
pawnbroker may insert on the pawn ticket any other terms, conditions and
information that are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-9)
§ 112.10 REPORTS TO THE CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the City Police Department to periodically contact
the licensed premises under this chapter to inspect or obtain copies of records
required to be kept according to §
112.08 hereof, setting forth a description of the person by whom they were left
in pledge or sold.
(Prior Code, § 15-10)
§ 112.11 HOLDING PERIOD; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person licensed as a pawnbroker, who shall purchase any new or
second-hand goods of any individual not engaged in trade, shall keep the same
for inspection for ten days from the time of the transfer, except on written
release from the Chief of Police or his or her designee. The above-mentioned
property shall be held during this period on the licensed premises or some
other secure location within the city and shall not be disposed of or altered
from the form in which it was received during this period.
   (B)   When articles are acquired by a pawnbroker in a group, they shall be
kept together for identification purposes and not separated until the ten-day
period has elapsed, unless released prior on written authorization by the Chief
of Police or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 15-11) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 PAWNED ARTICLE TO BE HELD 40 DAYS.
   Every article of any kind or description which is taken in pawn by a
pawnbroker shall be held by the pawnbroker for a period of 40 days, during
which time the same shall not be shown either for sale or for inspection, to
any person, other than a city police officer, during reasonable business hours.
(Prior Code, § 15-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.13 EFFECT OF HOLD ORDER.
   The Chief of Police or any authorized police officer may, by written order,
order a pawnbroker to hold any specified article or articles, deposited with or
in custody of such pawnbroker, for purposes of further investigation by the
Police Department, when said item or items are believed to be stolen. A hold
order shall remain in effect for a period of 30 days commencing the day on
which the hold order was delivered to the pawnbroker or second-hand dealer. A
hold order shall supersede the provisions of §§
112.11 and
112.12 and no sale or other disposition may be made of said article or articles
while such hold order remains outstanding, unless released by officers issuing
the hold order.
(Prior Code, § 15-13) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 112.14 ACCEPTING ARTICLES FROM OTHER THAN TRUE OWNER.
   A pawnbroker who accepts in pledge any article as security for a loan from a
pledger who is not the owner thereof, obtains no property in the article,
either by reason or maturation of the loan or by transference of the pawn
ticket to the pawnbroker by the pledger or holder thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-14) (Ord. 1199, passed 6-3-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.15 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to accept any articles in pawn or
purchase any second-hand personal property by acquiring a pawn ticket by
transference from any person under 18 years of age, except for a minor
accompanied by his or her parent or adult guardian who gives his or her written
approval to said transaction.
(Prior Code, § 15-15) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.16 CONCEALING ARTICLES TO PREVENT IDENTIFICATION.
   No pawnbroker shall conceal, secrete or destroy, for the purpose of
concealing, any article purchased or received by him or her, for the purpose of
preventing identification thereof by city police officers.
(Prior Code, § 15-16) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.17 EXAMINATION OF PREMISES BY CITY POLICE OFFICER.
   No pawnbroker or any other personnel shall refuse, resist or attempt to
prevent any city police officer without a warrant from examining the licensed
premises occupied by the pawnbroker or second-hand dealer, or their secured
premises within the city limits where property is stored, during reasonable
hours for the purpose of discovering stolen property.
(Prior Code, § 15-17) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
AND MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
113.01   Peddlers defined
   
113.02   Solicitors defined
   
113.03   Transient merchants defined
   
113.04   Mobile food vending/vendor(s) defined
   
113.05   Scope of chapter
   
113.06   Nuisances; exceptions
   
113.07   Licenses and fees for peddlers, solicitors, transient merchants, and
mobile food vendors
   
113.08   Bonds/insurance required: peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants
   
113.09   Mobile food vendor: permitted locations
   
113.10   Mobile food vendor: locations and times prohibited
   
113.11   Mobile food vendor: health, safety and sanitation
   
113.12   Mobile food vendor: signage
   
113.13   Mobile food vendor: alcohol
   
113.14   Mobile food vendor: liability and insurance
   
113.15   Peddling in parks
   
113.16   Revocation
§ 113.01 PEDDLERS DEFINED.
   A PEDDLER is a person, principal or agent, engaged in the selling of
personal property by going about from place to place or house to house to sell
such property and who carries with him or her such property for delivery at
time of sale in Hot Springs or any municipally owned or controlled park
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 113.02 SOLICITORS DEFINED.
   A SOLICITOR is a person, principal or agent, engaged in going about from
place to place or house to house soliciting orders for, or offering to sell
property for future delivery in Hot Springs or any municipally owned or
controlled park.
(Prior Code, § 16-2) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 113.03 TRANSIENT MERCHANTS DEFINED.
   A TRANSIENT MERCHANT is a person, principal or agent, who engages in a
temporary or itinerant business from a temporary location or structure in the
city, and who, for the purpose of carrying on such business, hires, leases or
occupies any land, structure, trailer or truck for the exhibition and sale of
such goods, wares or merchandise and includes the sale of any article, fruit,
vegetable or farm product.
(Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 113.04 MOBILE FOOD VENDING/VENDOR(S) DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the term MOBILE FOOD VENDING/VENDOR(S)
shall be defined as an activity whereby prepared food, either on-site or at
other licensed food preparation facility, or beverages are sold to the general
public from a food truck or food cart. This definition shall include both food
trucks and food carts. This definition shall not include food and beverage
delivery services.
(Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 113.05 SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant or mobile food vendor within the city
without first obtaining a license and paying the applicable fees. Licenses
issued under this chapter shall be non-transferrable.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter with reference to the bonding and
licensing of solicitors, peddlers, and transient merchants shall not apply to
solicitations, sales, or distributions, made by charitable, educational or
religious organizations which have their principal place of activity in the
City of Hot Springs.
(Prior Code, § 16-4) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 113.06 NUISANCES; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or transient merchant to
enter upon a private premises when the same is posted with a sign stating “No
Peddlers Allowed,” “No Solicitors Allowed,” or the like. Any peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant who enters upon premises owned or leased by another and
willfully refuses to leave the premises having been notified by the owner or
possessor of the premises, to leave the same, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or transient
merchant to make false or fraudulent statements concerning the quality or
nature of goods, wares, merchandise or services for the purpose of inducing
another to purchase the same.
(Prior Code, § 16-5) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07 LICENSES AND FEES FOR PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, AND
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   (A)   The license duration and fee for a solicitor, peddler, transient
merchant or mobile food vendor shall be in an amount, and duration, as set by
the City Council from time to time.
   (B)   At the time of filing application, the applicant for a license shall
present their driver’s license or other picture identification. The applicant
for a license under this section shall state:
      (1)   Whether the applicant, upon any sale or order, shall demand, accept
or receive payment or deposit of money in advance of final delivery;
      (2)   The period of time the applicant wishes to engage in business
within the city;
      (3)   The local and/or permanent address of applicant;
      (4)   The local and/or permanent address and the name(s) of the person
(s), if any, that the applicant represents;
      (5)   The kind of goods, wares, merchandise or services the applicant
wishes to engage in such business within the city;
      (6)   If applicable, the last three cities or towns wherein the applicant
has worked before coming to this city; and
      (7)   Such other relevant information as the city may require for the
investigation of the applicant.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to give any false or misleading
information in connection with the application for a license. Every individual
having a license issued under the provisions of this section and doing business
within the city shall display, or present, said license upon the request of any
person.
(Prior Code, § 16-6) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 BONDS/INSURANCE REQUIRED: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT
MERCHANTS.
   Every solicitor, peddler, or transient merchant, before receiving a license,
shall file in the office of the City Finance Officer a bond in the penal sum of
$500 for the faithful performance and obligation of such solicitor, peddler, or
transient merchant arising in connection with their business as such and for
the payment of all claims for damages for which they may become liable through
fraud, deceit, or otherwise in the course of their business. A commercial
general liability insurance policy with a limit not less than one million
dollars per occurrence and two million dollars general aggregate naming the
City of Hot Springs as an additional insured, may be accepted in place of a
bond if available.
(Prior Code, § 16-7) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: PERMITTED LOCATIONS.
   Mobile food and beverage vending shall be permitted at the following
locations:
   (A)   On private property zoned GC - General Commercial, HS - Highway
Service or MXD - Mixed Use.
   (B)   Any parking lot that serves a City of Hot Springs park, and the
parking lot is owned by the City of Hot Springs.
   (C)   On public sidewalks, only food carts are permitted. A clear space of
five feet in any direction around the food cart must be provided on the public
sidewalk.
(Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: LOCATIONS AND TIMES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Mobile food and beverage vending is prohibited where vending activity
is blocking access to a public street, alley, bike path, sidewalk, or access to
an adjacent property.
   (B)   Mobile food and beverage vending is prohibited within the city between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   (C)   The above prohibited times and locations do not apply to mobile food
vendors operating where a city-approved special event permit has been issued,
and with authorization from the special event sponsor.
(Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.11 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION.
   Mobile food and beverage vendors shall:
   (A)   Operate according to the minimum public health and food safety
requirements determined by South Dakota Department of Health;
   (B)   Comply with the fire safety requirements checklist as provided on the
South Dakota mobile food and beverage vending license;
   (C)   Comply with the licensing requirements of the State of South Dakota
including food, sales tax, and mobile food and beverage vending;
   (D)   Provide a trash bin for public use and remove all garbage within 25
feet of any food truck or food cart; and
   (E)   Not broadcast loud noise that results in a nuisance to the surrounding
properties.
(Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: SIGNAGE.
   Signs, billboards and other advertising structures are subject to the
regulations set forth in §
155.051 and, if applicable, §
32.07.
(Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 113.13 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: ALCOHOL.
   Mobile food vendors shall not sell or distribute alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.14 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: LIABILITY AND INSURANCE.
   Mobile food vendors operating from public streets and sidewalks or other
city-owned property shall maintain commercial general liability insurance with
a limit of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 general
aggregate naming the City of Hot Springs as an additional insured. A copy of
the certificate of coverage shall be provided to the City of Hot Springs at all
times while the license is in effect and, an official notice to the City of Hot
Springs Finance Office, shall be provided when coverage is terminated.
(Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 113.15 PEDDLING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or other person, except a
person occupying a portion of a park under a valid park reservation agreement,
to sell, or offer to sell, to any person within any municipal park of the city,
any goods, wares, merchandise, books, pictures, novelties, souvenirs, or
trinkets, or any other article of commerce and trade, including goods of his or
her own production or manufacture.
(Prior Code, § 16-10) (Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.16 REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
revocation by the City Council for violation of any provisions of state law, or
city code/ordinance according to the following procedure:
   (A)   Licensee shall be provided with written notice that describes the
nature of the violation and a timeline for correction.
   (B)   If correction is not completed within the time specified, the City of
Hot Springs Code Enforcement Officer will recommend revocation of the license
at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
   (C)   Upon such revocation such license shall be surrendered to City Hall.
(Ord. 1205, passed 12-16-2019)
CHAPTER 114: PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Circuses, carnivals and tent shows; licenses
   
114.02   Skating rinks; licenses
§ 114.01 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND TENT SHOWS; LICENSES.
   (A)   No person shall give or exhibit any circus or menagerie, or circus and
menagerie combined, or any show, performance or other exhibition of skill or
amusement, in any tent or on any vacant lot, without first obtaining a license
and paying the required fee.
   (B)   The license fee for each circus shall be in an amount as set by the
City Council from time to time for each subsequent day by the same company.
   (C)   The license fee for each street carnival shall be in an amount as set
by the City Council from time to time per day.
   (D)   The license fee for each tent show or exhibition shall be in an amount
as set by the City Council from time to time per day.
   (E)   The City Council may waive such license fees where the circus,
carnival or tent show is sponsored by some local charitable, patriotic,
fraternal or civic organization.
(Prior Code, § 19-4) (Ord. 1209, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 SKATING RINKS; LICENSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate any public skating rink without first
obtaining a license therefor.
   (B)   The license fee for operating any public skating rink shall be in an
amount as set by the City Council from time to time per year.
   (C)   The City Council may waive such license fee where the skating rink is
sponsored by some local charitable, patriotic, fraternal or civic organization.
(Prior Code, § 19-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License required
   
115.03   Application for license to engage in business as operator
   
115.04   Issuance of license
   
115.05   License fee/term
   
115.06   License suspension; revocation
   
115.07   Appeal of license decision
   
115.08   Taxicab fares
   
115.09   Unlawful use
   
115.10   Regulations for TNC licenses
   
115.11   Exceptions for certain entities
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUS or MOTOR BUS. A motor vehicle for carrying passengers with a seating
capacity of at least eight persons, not including the driver, and traveling a
prescribed route, and carrying or accepting passengers for hire, but shall not
include buses that stop to accept or discharge passengers only at an
established bus depot, nor shall it apply to sightseeing buses, nor school
business, nor shall it apply to funeral cars or ambulances.
   DRIVER. One who actually engages in the driving of a taxicab or bus.
   OPERATOR. A person engaged in business as an operator of a taxicab or
taxicabs or bus or buses as the case may be.
   PREARRANGED RIDE. The provision of transportation by a TNC driver to a TNC
rider, beginning when a TNC driver accepts a ride requested by a rider through
a digital network (as defined in state law) that is controlled by a TNC,
continuing while the TNC driver transports a requesting TNC rider, and ending
when the last requesting TNC rider departs from the personal vehicle. A
PREARRANGED RIDE does not include transportation provided by a taxicab.
   SEATING CAPACITY. The number of persons, not including the driver, who can
be conveniently seated in a taxicab or bus without overdue crowding.
   TAXICAB. A motor vehicle for carrying passengers, with a seating capacity
for seven persons or less, not including the driver, not traveling any definite
or prescribed route, operated by a driver, and carrying or accepting passengers
for hire, but shall not include funeral cars or ambulances.
   TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY. A corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship or other entity that uses a digital network as defined in state
law to connect TNC riders to TNC drivers who provide prearranged rides and that
does not control, direct or manage the personal vehicles or TNC drivers that
connect to its digital network, except where agreed to by written contract.
   TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY DRIVER or TNC DRIVER. A person who: receives
connections to potential TNC riders and related services from a TNC in exchange
for payment of a fee to the TNC; and uses a personal vehicle to provide a
prearranged ride to TNC riders through a digital network controlled by a TNC in
return for compensation or payment of a fee.
   TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY RIDER or TNC RIDER. A person who uses a TNC’s
digital network as defined in state law to connect with a TNC driver who
provides a prearranged ride to the person in the driver’s personal vehicle
between points chosen by the person.
(Ord. 1188, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of operating a transportation service
upon the streets or act as a driver of any such transportation service, without
a license as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 1188, passed 4-3-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE TO ENGAGE IN BUSINESS AS OPERATOR.
   (A)   Every person desiring a license to engage in business as an operator
of a transportation service, in the city, shall make application in writing to
the City Council in the general form required for all applications for license
and shall also give the following additional information:
      (1)   Taxicabs:
         (a)   Previous experience in such business, if the applicant has not
been licensed before; and
         (b)   Number of taxicabs to be operated.
      (2)   Buses:
         (a)   Previous experiences in such business, if the applicant has not
been licensed before;
         (b)   Number of buses to be operated, with a full description as to
each, including the age thereof;
         (c)   The proposed route or routes to be used;
         (d)   A rough draft of the proposed time schedule to be used;
         (e)   The rate of fare to be charged; and
         (f)   A list of the proposed stops.
      (3)   Transportation network company:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Trade name, if any, under which the license is to be exercised;
         (c)   If a partnership, the name and address of each partner;
         (d)   If a corporation, the names and address of the officers;
         (e)   Name and contact information for an agent to be maintained for
service of process in the state;
         (f)   A description of the activity to be carried out under the
license;
         (g)   Previous experience in the business, if the applicant has not
been previously licensed with the city; and
         (h)   Proof of sales tax license, if applicable.
   (B)   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
revoked by the City Council upon discovery of any false material statement made
in the application for the license.
(Ord. 1188, passed 4-3-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Council shall approve the issuance of the license applied for
if it is satisfied that the applicant has met the following requirements:
      (1)   The applicant is a fit person to engage in such business;
      (2)   The vehicles and equipment are such as are consistent with the
safety of the public;
      (3)   The applicant has indemnity and public liability insurance covering
the operation of each vehicle, to protect such operator against liability to
passengers and third persons for personal injury suffered or sustained by them
as a result of the operation of such transportation services, and said policies
to be in an amount of not less than $100,000 for damage to any one person and
not less than $300,000 for damage to more than one person, injured as the
result of any one accident, and not less than $50,000 for property damage
resulting from any one accident. Such policies shall be maintained during the
term of the license; and
      (4)   In the case of an application to operate a bus or buses, the City
Council may request changes or alterations in the proposed route or routes,
time schedule, rate of fare or stops before granting a license. After the
license has been issued, the operator shall not materially change or alter the
approved route or routes, time schedules, rate of fare or stops without first
receiving the approval of the City Council to make such change.
   (B)   Each applicant must comply with the following:
      (1)   Be of the age of 18 years or older;
      (2)   Be free from any impairment that would affect applicant’s ability
to properly operate a vehicle;
      (3)   Be able to read and write the English language;
      (4)   Make a sworn statement giving full name, residence, length of time
applicant has resided in the city, previous employment history, whether
applicant has ever been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor, and whether
applicant has been previously licensed as a transportation driver, and if so,
where and when, and whether applicant’s driver’s license has ever been revoked,
and for what cause; and
      (5)   Each person licensed under this chapter shall have such license in
the applicant’s/driver’s possession whenever applicant/driver is engaged in
driving a vehicle, and shall exhibit the same for inspection whenever
applicant/driver is requested to do so by a police officer.
(Ord. 1188, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 115.05 LICENSE FEE/TERM.
   (A)   The annual license fee shall be in an amount as set by the City
Council from time to time.
   (B)   Regardless of the month issued, this annual license will run January 1
to December 31 of each calendar year. There will not be prorated fees. If
license is withdrawn, revoked or denied, no portion of the fee may be refunded.
(Ord. 1188, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 115.06 LICENSE SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   The City Council or designee may suspend or revoke any license issued
pursuant to this chapter for the violation by the licensee of any applicable
provision in city, state or federal law, rule or regulation, or for other good
cause. The licensee shall be informed in writing of any suspension, extension
(s) of the suspension period, or revocation.
(Ord. 1188, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 115.07 APPEAL OF LICENSE DECISION.
   (A)   If a license application under this chapter is denied, the applicant
may request a personal appearance before the City Council to offer evidence why
the application should be reconsidered. Such request shall be in writing
provided to the Finance Office within 14 calendar days of the denial. If, upon
consideration, a majority of the Council votes for authorization of the
license, then the license shall be issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   If a license issued under this chapter is suspended or revoked, the
applicant may appeal to the City Council. Such appeal shall be in writing
provided to the Finance Office within 14 calendar days of the suspension or
revocation. If, upon consideration, a majority of the Council votes to overturn
the suspension or revocation, then the license shall be issued without need for
additional application or payment of fees.
(Ord. 1188, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 115.08 TAXICAB FARES.
   The prices which any licensee shall be permitted to charge for taxicab
service within the city shall be uniform and shall be fixed by such licensee.
Each licensee shall display in each and every taxicab operated by him or her a
complete printed schedule showing all the different fares charged by him or her
for taxicab service.
(Ord. 1188, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 115.09 UNLAWFUL USE.
   No person operating a transportation service within the city limits of this
city or within one mile from the outer boundaries thereof shall use or permit
or allow such transportation service to be used for carrying, transporting,
peddling or otherwise handling any intoxicating liquors. The finding of any
intoxicating liquor on or about the person of the operator of such taxicab or
in or about such vehicle, shall be prima facie evidence of the violation of
this section, and it is hereby made and declared sufficient grounds for the
revocation and cancellation of any license theretofore issued by it for the use
and operation of such transportation service. Upon revocation, the license fee
shall be retained by the city.
(Ord. 1188, passed 4-3-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.10 REGULATIONS FOR TNC LICENSES
   (A)   No cash trips. The TNC shall adopt a policy prohibiting solicitation
or acceptance of cash payments or other compensation directly from TNC riders
and shall notify TNC drivers of such policy. TNC drivers shall not solicit or
accept cash payments or other compensation directly from TNC riders. Any
payment for TNC services shall be made only electronically using the TNC’s
digital network.
   (B)   No street hails. A TNC driver shall not solicit or accept street
hails. TNC vehicles may only be used to provide prearranged transportation
service. A TNC driver shall not accept or respond to requests for service via a
street hail, including hand gestures and verbal statements. A TNC driver shall
not solicit potential TNC riders or use words or gestures for immediate
patronage of a TNC vehicle upon the public way attempting to direct people to a
vehicle that is parked, stopped, standing or moving upon the right-of-way.
   (C)   Fare collected for services. On behalf of a TNC driver, a TNC may
charge a fare for the services provided to TNC riders; provided that, if a fare
is collected from a TNC rider, the TNC shall disclose to TNC riders the fare
calculation method on its website or within the software application service.
The TNC shall also provide TNC riders with the applicable rates being charged
and the option to receive an estimated fare before the TNC rider enters the TNC
driver’s vehicle.
   (D)   Identification of TNC vehicles and drivers. The TNC’s software
application or website shall display a picture of the TNC driver and the
license plate number of the vehicle utilized for providing the TNC service
before the TNC rider enters the TNC driver’s vehicle.
   (E)   Electronic receipt. Within a reasonable period of time following the
completion of a trip, a TNC shall transmit an electronic receipt to the TNC
rider on behalf of the TNC driver that lists the following: the origin and
destination of the trip, the total time and distance of the trip, the total
fare paid, including the base fare and any additional charges; and the TNC
driver’s first name and a customer service telephone number or email address.
   (F)   Records. A TNC shall maintain the following records: individual trip
records of TNC riders for at least one year from the date each trip was
provided, individual records of TNC drivers and their trips at least until the
one-year anniversary of the date on which a TNC driver’s relationship with the
TNC has ended; and drivers’ names, license plates and/or other identifying
information for each active TNC driver operating within the city, which list
shall be submitted to the City Finance Officer on a monthly basis.
   (G)   Record inspection authority. The city has the authority to inspect the
records of the TNC as necessary to investigate: an alleged crime or violation
of this chapter; any accident involving a TNC driver; or for other good cause.
The TNC shall cooperate with the city to facilitate the exchange of relevant
information required in any investigation. The city shall provide advance
written notice at least seven days prior to any inspection, which may be
conducted at a mutually agreed upon third-party location, or pursuant to court
order, grand jury or investigative subpoena. Any record or information made
available by the TNC to the city pursuant to this chapter is confidential and
proprietary and shall not be made public without TNC’s express written
permission, except that if the city is required to disclose confidential
information under court order or other applicable law, the city shall promptly
notify the TNC of such requirement, prior to disclosure, and shall make
diligent efforts to limit disclosure pursuant to any available basis in the
state open records law or other applicable law.
(Ord. 1188, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 115.11 EXEMPTIONS FOR CERTAIN ENTITIES.
   Non-profit public organizations or entities, and governmental sponsored
organizations or entities shall be exempted from the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1188, passed 4-3-2018)
CHAPTER 116: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose and intent
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   License required
   
116.04   License application
   
116.05   Issuance of license
   
116.06   City neutrality as to applicants
   
116.07   Number of cannabis dispensaries
   
116.08   Expiration of license and renewal
   
116.09   Suspension
   
116.10   Revocation
   
116.11   Suspension and revocation process
   
116.12   Appeal
   
116.13   Licenses not transferable
   
116.14   Hours of operation for dispensaries
   
116.15   Liability for violations
 
   
116.16   Penalties
§ 116.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City Council of the City of Hot Springs, South Dakota enacts the
following licensing regulations in order to ensure that cannabis establishments
within the municipal boundaries of the city operate in a manner which complies
with state laws and regulations, protects the health, safety, and welfare of
the general public, prevents potential conflicts and issues arising from
ownership and employees, recognizes certain safety and security considerations,
and minimizes risk of unauthorized use or access of cannabis by the general
public.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless an alternative definition is explicitly stated in this section, this
chapter utilizes the definitions for cannabis-related terms which are defined
by SDCL § 34-20G-1.
   CANNABIS (OR MARIJUANA). All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of
marijuana absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber
produced from the mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the
seeds of such plant. The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L. and
any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives,
extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether
growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more
than three-tenths of 1% on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, this
term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. Cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally authorized to
analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   DEPARTMENT. The South Dakota Department of Health.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment license issued
by the city pursuant to this chapter. A violation of this provision is subject
to the general penalty provision in §
116.16. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment registration
certificate issued by the department pursuant to rules promulgated under SDCL §
34-20G. A violation of this provision is subject to the general penalty
provision in § 116.16. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a cannabis establishment license must be made on a
form provided by the city. No other application form will be considered.
   (B)   The applicant must submit the following:
      (1)   Application fee of $5,000 for each type of cannabis establishment.
The city will not reimburse applicants who fail to obtain a registration
certificate from the South Dakota Department of Health.
      (2)   An application that will include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The legal name of the prospective cannabis establishment.
         (b)   The physical address of the prospective cannabis establishment
that meets the zoning requirements in
Chapter 155, Zoning Code, as well as any location requirements pursuant SDCL §
34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder.
         (c)   The name, address, and birth date of each principal officer,
owner, and board member of the proposed cannabis establishment.
         (d)   A sworn statement that no principal officer, owner, or board
member has been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years
in any jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any additional information requested by the city.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city will issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant has made a false statement on the application or
submits false records or documentation; or
      (2)   Any owners, principal officer, or board member of the applicant is
under the age of 21 years; or
      (3)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years in any
jurisdiction; or
      (4)   The proposed location does not meet the applicable zoning
requirements under Title XV; or
      (5)   The proposed location does not meet all location requirements under
SDCL § 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder; or
      (6)   The license is to be used for a business prohibited by state or
local law, statute, rule, ordinance, or regulation; or
      (7)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
had a cannabis establishment license revoked by the city or a registration
certificate revoked by the state; or
      (8)   An applicant, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties
assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to any cannabis
establishment; or
      (9)   The applicant will not be operating the business for which the
license would be issued.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a cannabis dispensary license, the
city will reject the application if the limit on the number of cannabis
dispensaries has been reached.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the cannabis establishment so that it may be easily read at any
time.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.06 CITY NEUTRALITY AS TO APPLICANTS.
   Upon request from the department as to the city's preference of applicants,
the city will neither support nor oppose any registration certificate
application under consideration by the department. Likewise, if inquiry is made
by the department, the city will abstain from endorsing any application as
beneficial to the community.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.07 NUMBER OF CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   No more than one cannabis dispensary per 1,500 residents, based on the
latest U.S. Census, shall be allowed to operate in the city at any time.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.08 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license expires December 31 each calendar year and may be renewed
only by making application as provided in §
116.04. Application for renewal must be submitted at least 30 days before the
expiration date. The license holder must continue to meet the license
requirements to be eligible for a renewal.
   (B)   The renewal fee is $5,000. The city will not reimburse applicants who
fail to obtain a renewal of their registration certificate from the department.
   (C)   Failure to renew a license in accordance with this section may result
in additional fees. Upon expiration of the license, the city may order closure
of the cannabis establishment.
   (D)   If a license holder has not operated an establishment for which it
holds a license in the preceding 12 months, the license will not be renewed.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.09 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A license may be suspended if the license holder or an employee or
agent of the license holder:
      (1)   Violates or is otherwise not in compliance with any section of this
chapter.
      (2)   Consumes or smokes or allows any person to consume or smoke
cannabis on the premises of the cannabis establishment.
      (3)   Knowingly dispenses or provides cannabis or cannabis products to an
individual or business to whom it is unlawful to provide cannabis or cannabis
products.
   (B)   A license may be suspended if the license holder has its department-
issued registration certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed by the
department or if the registration certificate is expired.
   (C)   A license may be suspended if the license holder creates or allows to
be created a public nuisance at the cannabis establishment.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A license may be revoked if the license is suspended under §
116.10 and the cause for the suspension is not remedied.
   (B)   A license may be revoked if the license is subject to suspension under
§
116.10 because of a violation outlined in that section and the license has been
previously suspended in the preceding 24 months.
   (C)   A license is subject to revocation if a license holder or employee of
a license holder:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of non-cannabis
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   Operated the cannabis establishment or the business of the cannabis
establishment for which a license is required under this chapter while the
license was suspended;
      (4)   Repeated violations of §
116.11;
      (5)   Operated a function of a cannabis establishment for which the
license holder was not licensed (e.g., a licensed cannabis cultivation facility
conducting cannabis testing functions without a cannabis testing establishment
license);
      (6)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state for any taxes
or fees related to the cannabis establishment;
      (7)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officers, or board member
thereof, has been convicted of, or continues to employ an employee who has been
convicted of, a disqualifying felony offense as defined by SDCL § 34-20G; or
      (8)   The license holder has its department-issued registration
certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed or the registration certificate
is expired.
      (9)   The license holder allows a public nuisance to continue after
notice from the city.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.11 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The license holder will receive a notice of intent to suspend or
notice of intent to revoke informing the license holder of the violation and
the city's intention to suspend or revoke the license. The notice will be hand
delivered to the license holder or an employee or agent of the license holder
or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to the physical address of
the cannabis establishment.
   (B)   If the license holder disputes the suspension or revocation, the
license holder has ten days from the postmark date on the notice or the date
the notice was hand delivered to request a hearing before a hearing panel,
which will consist of the Mayor, Finance Officer, Chief of Police and Public
Safety Committee Chair.
   (C)   A suspension will be for 30 days and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder exercises its rights to process an appeal, in which case the
suspension takes effect upon the final determination of suspension.
   (D)   A revocation will be for one year and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder appeals the revocation, in which case the revocation takes
effect upon the final determination of revocation.
   (E)   The license holder who has had the license revoked may not be issued
any cannabis establishment license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.12 APPEAL.
   An applicant or license holder who has been denied a license or renewal of a
license or who has had a license suspended or revoked under this chapter may
appeal to the City Council by submitting a written appeal within ten days of
the postmark on the notice of denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation.
The written appeal must be submitted to City Hall, 303 North River Street, Hot
Springs, South Dakota, 57747. The appeal will be considered by the City Council
at a regularly scheduled meeting within one month of the receipt of the appeal.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.13 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   No cannabis establishment license holder may transfer the license to any
other person or entity either with or without consideration, nor may a license
holder operate a cannabis establishment at any place other than the address
designated in the application.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.14 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR DISPENSARIES.
   Cannabis dispensaries are allowed to be open between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday and between 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on
Saturday.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.15 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter,
an act by an employee or agent of a cannabis establishment that constitutes
grounds for suspension or revocation will be imputed to the cannabis
establishment license holder for purposes of finding a violation of this
chapter, or for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if
an officer, director or general partner or a person who managed, supervised or
controlled the operation of the cannabis establishment, knowingly allowed such
act to occur on the premises.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 116.16 PENALTIES.
   Any person who operates or causes to be operated a cannabis establishment
without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for ordinance violations. Such violations
are punishable by a maximum fine of $500. Each day a cannabis establishment so
operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-4-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Miscellaneous offenses
   
130.03   Weapons and firearms
   
130.04   Barricades and fences
   
130.05   Barbed wire and electrified fences prohibited; exception
   
130.06   Curfew for minors
   
130.07   Abandoned vehicles and property
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides, and
transports persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, motorcycle or tractor.
(Prior Code, § 12-A-01) (Ord. 1106, passed 12-27-2011)
§ 130.02 MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES.
   (A)   Begging or solicitation.
      (1)   It is unlawful to detain or attempt to detain any person in a
public place or to go door to door at residences or places of business, for the
purpose of begging for money or other valuable consideration without giving
valuable consideration in return. Solicitation consists of communication by
words, signs or other conduct of a desire to receive charity.
      (2)   Begging shall not include solicitation by a bona fide nationally
chartered veterans, religious, charitable, educational or fraternal
organization, local civic or service club, political party or volunteer fire
department, volunteer ambulance service, police reserves, Sheriff’s deputies or
political committee which is duly existing under the laws of the state;
provided, however, that the proceeds therefrom do not inure to the benefit of
any individual, and the person making the solicitation identifies, prior to the
solicitation, the organization for which he or she is soliciting.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely identify himself or
herself as soliciting on behalf of any bona fide organization as designated
above.
   (B)   Posting or painting of bills or signs.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post or paint any bills,
signs, advertisement or notice on any building, wall, pole or tree on the
private property of any person without the consent of the owner thereof.
      (2)   No person shall deface, remove, change or mar, or in any way
interfere with, or obliterate, either wholly or in part, any sign, signboard or
card placed, extended or erected by the city.
   (C)   Domesticated pets prohibited in parks during events. 
      (1)   Domesticated pets or animals shall not be permitted in the
immediate area of any event, festival or program approved by the City Council
in a city park, during the duration of the event, festival or program.
      (2)   Exception:
         (a)   Animals used by law enforcement personnel, the disabled or the
visually impaired; and
         (b)   Animals where the nature of the event is in regard to those
animals.
(Prior Code, § 12-A-02) (Ord. 1106, passed 12-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 WEAPONS AND FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or shoot off any
firearm within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any air gun or other device
for throwing or forcing through the air any missiles or projectiles whatsoever
which, when not used safely, is likely to produce death or great bodily harm or
property damage.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any regularly authorized shooting
gallery in said city for firearms, nor to Sheriffs, their deputies, police
officers of this city in the performance of their duties or any other law
enforcement entity deemed to have jurisdiction in said city, or persons
expressly authorized by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 12-A-03) (Ord. 1106, passed 12-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 BARRICADES AND FENCES.
   No person shall move, interfere with, break, destroy, carry away or in any
other manner molest any barricade, warning sign, lantern, flare, traffic cone
or warning light placed at any excavation or improvement in the course of
construction or placed by any person guarding any unsafe or dangerous place.
(Prior Code, § 12-A-04) (Ord. 1106, passed 12-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIFIED FENCES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The use or erection of any barbed wire fence is prohibited in the city
except in Mountain Residential zoned districts where the keeping of horses is
an approved use.
   (B)   The use or erection of any electric wire fence is prohibited in the
city except in Mountain Residential zoned districts where the keeping of horses
is an approved use.
(Prior Code, § 12-A-04-02) (Ord. 1106, passed 12-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For any minor under the age of 16 years to be upon the streets,
alleys or any other public places within the city between the hours of 10:30
p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day, unless accompanied by an authorized
person having him or her in their charge; or unless such minor is upon some
errand or legitimate business by written permission or direction of a parent,
guardian or employer; in which event, said minor shall not loiter on the way or
make any undue noise to disturb the peace and quiet of the city. Any such minor
who shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall be subject to
detention by any police officer without process, and shall be taken and
delivered by a police officer into the custody of one or more of his or her
parents, or of his or her guardian, or employer. Upon a second or subsequent
detention, such minor may be placed in the custody of the juvenile court of the
county; or
      (2)   For any parent, guardian or person having the custody or control of
any minor, under the age of 16 years, to allow or permit such minor to loiter
in any place where the minor’s presence is prohibited by law, or to allow any
minor, under the age of 16 years, to be abroad in or upon any of the streets,
alleys or other public places in the city, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and
5:00 a.m. of the following day, unless accompanied by an authorized person
having charge of such minor or unless such minor is on an errand or legitimate
business by written permission of a parent or employer.
   (B)   The term an AUTHORIZED PERSON means a person 18 years of age or older,
authorized by a parent, guardian or employer of the minor to have said minor in
his or her charge.
(Prior Code, § 12-A-05) (Ord. 1106, passed 12-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 ABANDONED VEHICLES AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   Abandonment of vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall abandon any vehicle or trailer within the city and
no person shall leave any vehicle or trailer at any place within the city of
such time and under such circumstance as to cause such vehicle or trailer
reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
      (2)   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating,
wrecked or junked vehicle or trailer on any street or highway within the city.
   (B)   Abandoned property.
      (1)   No person shall abandon, leave or place, in any street, alley or
public place of the city, any property of any kind.
      (2)   No person shall permit any property of any kind so abandoned, left
or placed to be or remain for more than 48 hours in any street, alley or public
place of the city, adjacent to or in the vicinity of his or her property or
residence, without reporting the same; and any property so abandoned, left or
placed in any such street, alley or public place, and any property abandoned,
left or placed by any person on any private property of which report or
complaint may have reached any bureau or department of the city, is declared to
be a public nuisance and an obstruction and a menace to the public welfare,
comfort, safety and health.
   (C)   Abandoned property, nuisance abatement. 
      (1)   It is hereby made the duty of any member of the Police Department
to report to the Chief of Police any property so abandoned, left or placed and
the Chief of Police shall provide for the removal of such obstruction and the
abatement of such nuisance, as soon as possible after receiving any such
report.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to:
         (a)   Take possession of any article of property so abandoned, left or
placed on any public or private property;
         (b)   If the same is believed to have any value, to keep it and make
an attempt to find the owner thereof; and
         (c)   To retain any such article for the delivery to the proper owner
upon verification of ownership.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to:
         (a)   Maintain a place for the keeping of any such abandoned article
until the same shall be claimed or otherwise disposed of;
         (b)   Keep a record of the lien thereon for the reasonable expenses
incurred for the effort necessary in taking, removing and storing such article;
and
         (c)   Release such article or property upon the satisfaction of any
and all liens held against said article or property.
      (4)   If any such article or property has been or is kept for 90 days or
more without being claimed, the same may be disposed of by the Police
Department as follows.
         (a)   If of no value or of slight value, it may be destroyed or
otherwise disposed of by the city.
         (b)   If of slight value and of use to any city department, it may be
turned over to the proper department and used until claimed by the owner. Such
article or property may be released to the owner upon the satisfaction of any
and all liens held against said article or property. The lien may be reduced
based on the amount of use by the department at the discretion of the Chief of
Police.
         (c)   If no more than slight value, it may be sold by the Police
Department ten days after notice of such sale has been given by one publication
in a legal newspaper published in the city, and the city may be a bidder at
such sale. If on any such sale, an amount is bid in excess of the charges or
lien of the city, such excess shall be deposited to the credit of the General
Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-A-06) (Ord. 1106, passed 12-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   MANUFACTURED HOMES; PARKS
         
152.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
         
153.   FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
         
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
155.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   International Building Code
   
150.02   Amendments to the Building Code
   
150.03   International Residential Code
   
150.04   Amendments to the Residential Code
   
150.05   Property Maintenance Code
   
150.06   Building permit fees
   
150.07   Building permit and use fee schedule
§ 150.01 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   The International Building Codes adopted herein were developed by
the International Code Council (ICC), a consolidation of the model building
codes of BOCA (Building Officials and Code Administrators International), ICBO
(International Conference of Building Officials, and SBCCI (Southern Building
Code Congress International). With the development of the ICC building codes,
the development and maintenance of the BOCA, ICBO and SBCCI model codes was
discontinued.
      (2)   The purpose of these codes is to establish the minimum requirements
to safeguard the public health, safety and general welfare through structural
strength, means of egress facilities, stability, sanitation, adequate light and
ventilation, energy conservation and safety to life and property from fire and
other hazards attributed to the built environment and to provide safety to
firefighters and emergency responders during emergency operations.
   (B)   Adoption of International Building Code (IBC), 2018 Edition. 
      (1)   The International Building Code, 2018 Edition, is hereby adopted by
the city, and the printed, copyrighted copy of such Code, which is on file in
the office of the Building Official of this city, is adopted and incorporated
as fully as if set out at length herein.
      (2)   Such Codes shall be enforced by the Building Official of this city.
(Prior Code, § 6-A-04) (Ord. 1220, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 150.02 AMENDMENTS TO THE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Section 102.4, Referenced codes and standards shall include those
electrical and plumbing codes most currently adopted and enforced by the State
Electrical Commission and the State Plumbing Commission, to include all
amendments and exceptions thereto.
   (B)   Section 105.5, Expiration shall include the following: Expiration of
Building Permit. If the work described in any building permit has not begun
within six months from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire;
it shall be canceled by the Building Official; and written notice thereof shall
be given to the persons affected. If the work described in any building permit
has not been completed within two years of the date of issuance thereof, the
Building Official shall cause the building permit to be reviewed and written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected. Upon review of the
permitted project the Building Official may extend the permit conditional on an
established completion date or, in the alternative, cancel the building permit.
Written notice of cancellation shall be given to the persons affected to
include provisions for the appeal of such decision.
   (C)   Section 113, Board of Appeals. 113.1 General shall read “An appeal or
complaint regarding decisions or determinations from the administrative
official or department head in regard to the administration of this code shall
first be made to the City Administrator or, in his/her absence, the Chief
Executive Officer of the city for an administrative review. If the decision or
determination is in writing an appeal shall be made within the time period
specified in the notice or directive resulting from such decision or
determination. In the event that the appellant is not satisfied with the City
Administrator’s interpretation and/or determination on the issue, the appellant
shall have the right to request to appeal the matter to the City Council who
shall act as the Board of Appeals. Upon such request the City Administrator
shall place the appellant on the agenda for the next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting for a legislative determination on the matter.”
   (D)   Section 1807.1.3, Rubble stone foundation walls, shall be repealed in
its entirety.
   (E)   Section 1807.1.4, Wood foundations, shall read: “Wood foundation
systems shall not be permitted within the jurisdiction of the City of Hot
Springs, to include post-frame or “pole barn” construction for habitable
residential structures.”
(Prior Code, § 6-A-025)
§ 150.03 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   The International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, is hereby adopted by the
city, and the printed, copyrighted copy of such Code, which is on file in the
office of the Building Official of this city, is adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein. Such Code shall be enforced by the
Building Official of this city.
(Prior Code, § 6-A-030) (Ord. 1220, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 150.04 AMENDMENTS TO THE RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   Section R102.4 Referenced codes and standards shall include those
electrical and plumbing codes most currently adopted and enforced by the State
Electrical Commission and the State Plumbing Commission, to include all
amendments and exceptions thereto.
   (B)   Section R105.2 Work exempt from permit shall be amended to include
and/or read as follows:
   •   Decks:
      1.   Unenclosed decks not exceeding 200 square feet in area which do not
incorporate or include a framed roof system.
      2.   Unenclosed decks not more than 30 inches above grade at any point
which do not incorporate or include a framed roof system.
   •   Roof systems covering unenclosed porches providing:
      1.   The total floor area does not exceed 60 square feet and,
      2.   The supporting members do not encroach more than six feet into the
required set-back.
   •   Window and door replacement where the rough opening is not altered and
the means of egress is not reduced.
   •   Replacement of exterior wall siding.
   •   Structures or work performed on properties of the United States Veterans
Administration Hospital or the Michael J. Fitzmaurice State Veterans Home.
   (C)   Section R105.5, Expiration shall include the following: Expiration of
Building Permit. If the work described in any building permit has not begun
within six months from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire;
it shall be canceled by the Building Official; and written notice thereof shall
be given to the persons affected. If the work described in any building permit
has not been completed within two years of the date of issuance thereof, the
Building Official shall cause the building permit to be reviewed and written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected. Upon review of the
permitted project the Building Official may extend the permit conditional on an
established completion date or, in the alternative, cancel the building permit.
Written notice of cancellation shall be given to the persons affected to
include provisions for the appeal of such decision.
   (D)   Section R112, Board of Appeals. R112.1 General shall read “An appeal
or complaint regarding decisions or determinations from the administrative
official or department head in regard to the administration of this code shall
first be made to the City Administrator or, in his or her absence, the Chief
Executive Officer of the city for an administrative review, if the decision or
determination is in writing an appeal shall be made within the time period
specified in the notice or directive resulting from such decision or
determination. In the event that the appellant is not satisfied with the City
Administrator’s interpretation and/or determination on the issue, the appellant
shall have the right to request to appeal the matter to the City Council who
shall act as the Board of Appeals. Upon such request the City Administrator
shall place the appellant on the agenda for the next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting for a legislative determination on the matter.”
   (E)   Section R202, Definitions shall include the following definitions:
   •   Balcony, Exterior - An exterior floor system projecting from a structure
and supported entirely by that structure, with no additional independent
supports.
   •   Carport - A temporary or permanent unenclosed detached accessory
structure, without doors and not more than 600 square feet in area, used for
the sheltered parking of vehicles. Carports enclosed on more than two sides
shall be considered a garage (see “Accessory Structure”).
   •   Deck - A non-covered exterior attached or detached floor system
supported on at least two opposing sides by an adjoining structure and/or
posts, piers or other independent supports.
   •   Porch - A roofed structure, usually open at the front and sides,
projecting from the face of a building and used to protect an entrance.
Considered to be an addition to the main structure.
   •   Veranda - Typically a long, wrap-around covered porch surrounded by a
railing, often extending along more than one side of a building. Considered to
be a part of or an addition to the main structure.
   (F)   Table R301.2(1) Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria shall be
designated as follows:
GROUND SNOW LOAD          30#
WIND SPEED                90 MPH
TOPOGRAPHIC EFFECTS       NO
SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORY   B
WEATHERING                SEVERE
FROST LINE DEPTH          42 IN
TERMITE                   NONE TO SLIGHT
WINTER DESIGN TEMPERATURE -7°F
ICE BARRIER UNDERLAYMENT  YES
FLOOD HAZARDS             YES
AIR FREEZING INDEX        2000
MEAN ANNUAL TEMPERATURE   45°F
 
   (G)   Section R309.1, Floor Surface shall read “Garage floor surfaces shall
be of approved noncombustible material. The area of floor used for parking of
automobiles or other vehicles should be sloped to facilitate the movement of
liquids to a drain or toward the main vehicle entry door.”
   (H)   Section R313, Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems shall be deleted from
this code.
   (I)   Section R402.1, Wood foundations shall read: "Wood foundation systems
within the jurisdiction of Hot Springs, shall be designed by a registered and
licensed State of South Dakota Engineer. Construction will also be inspected by
the certifying, licensed State of South Dakota Engineer at each phase of
construction". Copies of inspection records and Engineer's "Stamped"
certification of construction documentation will be provided to City Building
official, prior to consideration for Certificate of Occupancy.
      (1)   Post-frame constructed structures shall be designed by a registered
and licensed State of South Dakota Engineer or Architect, including supports
and connections. Construction will also be inspected by the certifying,
licensed State of South Dakota Engineer or Architect at each phase of
construction. Copies of inspection records and Engineer's or Architect's
"Stamped" certification of construction documentation will be provided to City
Building official, prior to consideration for Certificate of Occupancy.
      (2)   Pole Barn construction for accessory buildings without stamped
engineering drawings, shall be limited to 36 ft. span and 1500 total square
feet (approx. 36' x 40').
         (a)   Pole Barn construction will not be allowed for habitable
residential structures.
         (b)   Stand-alone Pole Barn construction will not be allowed in GC
Zoning District.
   (J)   Section R403.1.4, Minimum depth. Exceptions: (monolithic foundations)
      (1)   Where the roof truss span is not over 40 feet, light-framed
detached garages not over 1,000 square feet in area shall have a minimum
footing width of 12 inches, and shall have a minimum depth of eight inches
below grade and will contain a minimum of two #4 rebar continuous, provided
that the sill plate is a minimum of four inches above grade and proper drainage
is provided.
      (2)   Where the roof truss span is not over 24 feet, light-framed
detached garages over 1,000 square feet in area may reduce the footing width
from the required 12 inches to eight inches where a 30-degree to 45-degree back
slope as measured from the bottom of the footing to the floor slab is provided.
The minimum rebar requirements shall include two #3 rebar continuous.
      (3)   Where vertical frost depth piers are installed at typical 8-foot
centers, they shall contain three #3 rebar centered, tied and anchored at 12-
inch intervals.
   (K)   Section R403.1.6, Foundation anchorage. Exception #1, “For exterior
wall wood sole plates attached to poured concrete foundations, an 8" ‘J’ or ‘L’
anchor bolt, embedded a minimum of 6 inches into the concrete may be used where
the anchor bolt spacing is minimum 48 inches on-center.” On concrete floor
slabs, post-placement engineered (wedge-type or epoxied) anchor bolts
installations will be allowed when an approved (stamped) engineered design is
submitted to the Building Official at least 72 hours, prior to the concrete
installation.
   (L)   Section R404.1.2, Concrete foundation walls. Exception: “Cast-in-place
foundations greater than 18 inches in depth are prohibited except upon approval
by the local Building Official and subject to a soils investigation. The term
‘cast-in-place foundations’ shall be defined as an excavation of which the
excavated earthen sides or walls are intended to be used as the concrete form
(s) against which the concrete is poured.”
   (M)   Section 501.3, Fire Protection of Floors shall be repealed.
   (N)   Section 507, Decks. In addition to the provisions of this code, the
Prescriptive Residential Wood Deck Construction Guide, based on the most
current international Residential Code (IRC 2018 Edition), as provided by the
American Forest and Paper Association, shall be the official guide for the
construction of decks within the city. Where a conflict exists between the
guide and the adopted code, the most restrictive provisions shall prevail.
   (O)   Chapter 11, Energy Efficiency shall read as follows:
      Habitable spaces shall contain a minimum of:
      1- R-38 insulation in attic spaces.
      2- R-19 insulation in wall spaces.
   (P)   Chapters 12 through Chapter 43 shall be repealed from this code.
(Prior Code, § 6-A-04-035) (Ord. 1025, passed 11- -2005; Ord. 1068, passed 10-
-2008; Ord. 1220, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 150.05 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition,
is hereby adopted by the city, and the printed, copyrighted copy of such
International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, which is on file in the
office of the Building Official of this City, is adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein. The Police Department and the Building
Department may act jointly or separately, as is deemed necessary and
appropriate by the Chief of Police and/or the Building Official, or however
otherwise directed by the governing body, in the enforcement of this code.
   (B)   Amendments to the International Property Maintenance Code, 2018
Edition.
      (1)   Section 102.2 shall be repealed in its entirety.
      (2)   Section 103 shall be repealed in its entirety.
      (3)   Section 105 shall be repealed in its entirety.
      (4)   Section 111.1, shall read: “An appeal or complaint regarding
decisions or determinations from the administrative official or department head
in regard to the administration of this code shall first be made to the City
Administrator or, in his or her absence, the Chief Executive Officer of the
City for an administrative review. If the decision or determination is in
writing an appeal shall be made within the time period specified in the notice
or directive resulting from such decision or determination. In the event that
the appellant is not satisfied with the City Administrator’s interpretation
and/or determination on the issue, the appellant shall have the right to
request to appeal the matter to the City Council who shall act as the Board of
Appeals. Upon such request the City Administrator shall place the appellant on
the agenda for the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting for a
legislative determination on the matter.”
      (5)   Section 302.4 shall indicate weeds or plant growth in excess of
eight inches in height.
      (6)   Section 303 shall be repealed in its entirety.
      (7)   Section 305 shall be repealed in its entirety.
      (8)   Chapter 4 shall be repealed in its entirety.
      (9)   Chapter 5 shall be repealed in its entirety.
      (10)   Chapter 6 shall be repealed in its entirety.
      (11)   Chapter 7 shall be repealed in its entirety.
(Prior Code, § 6-A-04-040) (Ord. 1220, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 150.06 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   When work has begun on a project for which a building permit is required,
and the permit has not yet been obtained and the appropriate fees paid, then
the building permit fees shall be multiplied by a factor of four; however, this
shall not relieve the owner and or contractor from fully complying with the
requirements of all applicable building/construction codes and zoning laws
applicable in that district or from any other penalties prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-A-05-01) (Ord. 1124, passed 12-25-2012)
§ 150.07 BUILDING PERMIT AND USE FEE SCHEDULE.
   The building permit and use fees shall in an amount as set by the City
Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6-30) (Ord. 1057, passed 10-23-2007)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOMES; PARKS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose and intent
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   General regulations
   
151.04   Existing mobile home parks
   
151.05   Manufactured homes outside of mobile home parks
   
151.06   Existing mobile home parks area regulations
§ 151.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for manufactured
homes placed outside of manufactured home subdivisions and for mobile home
parks that are in existence in the city at the time of this chapter revision.
Mobile home parks within the city limits that are in existence at the time of
this chapter revision are non-conforming uses in the districts in which they
are located and are subject to the existing non-conforming regulations in the
zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 13-A-01)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A storage shed or carport, or combination thereof, that
is subordinate to and located on the same lot as the manufactured home.
   CARPORT. A temporary or permanent unenclosed detached accessory structure,
without doors, used for the sheltered parking of vehicles. CARPORTS enclosed on
more than two sides shall be considered a garage and shall be constructed in
accordance with adopted building codes.
   ENCLOSED PORCH OR DECK. Porches or decks that are enclosed on more than two
sides shall be considered “enclosed.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Sometimes referred to as a MOBILE HOME or TRAILER HOME. A
portable dwelling unit, designed and constructed to be towed on its own
chassis, comprised of frame and wheels, and designed to be connected to
utilities for year-round occupancy. The term shall include units composed of
two or more separately towable components designed to be joined into one
integral unit, capable of being separated again for repeated towing.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An existing, non-conforming use of land whereupon
manufactured homes as herein defined are placed, located or maintained on a
property under one ownership to include all approved accessory buildings
thereof.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park with
full utility hook-ups which is designed for and designated as:
      (1)   The location for two automobiles and one mobile home and not used
for any other purposes other than the customary accessory structures or uses
thereof; and
      (2)   The location for the temporary parking of two automobiles and one
RV, permitted between the months of April 1 and October 31 of any given year.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. Any areas, tracts or sites or plots of land,
of not less than two acres, whereupon manufactured homes as herein defined are
placed, located or maintained, or intended to be placed, located or maintained.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure or use of land existing at the time
of enactment of this chapter and which does not conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is situated.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV); CAMPER. For the purpose of this chapter a
recreation vehicle shall mean a motorized or towed self-contained vehicle
manufactured for the purpose of temporary human occupancy away from the place
of the occupant’s permanent residence.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK. For the purpose of this chapter, a mobile
home park shall be deemed to be an RV PARK when 25% or more of the spaces for
which the mobile home park is licensed for are available for the temporary
parking of recreation vehicles. RV PARKS may be permitted through the use
permit on review process as provided in
Chapter 155 (Zoning).
(Prior Code, § 13-A-02)
§ 151.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Manufactured homes are not permitted to be placed in the city except
in Residential B Zone as described in §
155.021.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles are not permitted to be placed in the city
except as allowed per §
151.04(D). This does not affect a private citizens’ right to store their own
recreational vehicle on their own residential property nor does it override the
right to have someone visit per zoning district allowances in the RA and RB
Zones.
   (C)   All manufactured homes placed in the city, regardless of age, shall
meet the minimum health and safety standards in effect at the time of
manufacture of that manufactured home. For manufactured homes built prior to
June 15, 1976 a label certifying compliance to the standard for Mobile Homes
NFPA 501 in effect at the time of manufacture is required.
   (D)   Required inspection and repairs for relocated manufactured homes:
(does not apply to manufactured homes relocated within the same mobile home
park). The Code Official shall be authorized to inspect, or to require approved
professionals to inspect at the expense of the owner, the various structural
parts of a relocated manufactured home to verify that structural components and
connections have not sustained structural damage during transport. Any repairs
required by the code official as a result of such inspection shall be made
prior to the final approval.
   (E)   Floodplains:
      (1)   Any manufactured home moved to a manufactured home space located
within a floodplain must be anchored to a permanent foundation that raises the
living area and all supporting mechanical equipment to one foot above the base
flood elevation. The anchoring must meet all Building Code requirements and may
require an elevation certificate; and
      (2)   No manufactured home or recreation vehicle can be located to a
manufactured home space located within a floodway. A FLOODWAY is the portion of
a floodplain with the highest velocities.
(Prior Code, § 13-A-03)
§ 151.04 EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   License required for mobile home parks.
      (1)   Mobile home parks existing at the time of the adoption of this
chapter shall be subject to the inspection and license requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Mobile home parks in existence and operation at the time of the
enactment of this chapter shall be considered to be an existing non-conforming
use. The ordinance provisions for mobile home parks have been replaced by
manufactured home subdivision requirements in the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Application for annual license renewal for mobile home park.
      (1)   Any person desiring to continue to operate a mobile home park
within the city shall make application annually on a form provided by the city.
      (2)   Any person, company, corporation or entity having been issued a
mobile home park license shall be responsible for the condition of the
properties upon which manufactured homes are placed.
   (C)   Annual license fee for mobile home park; inspections.
      (1)   The license fee for operating a mobile home park shall be an amount
as set by the City Council from time to time per year for every such park which
can accommodate ten or less manufactured homes spaces and an amount as set by
the City Council from time to time per year for every such park which can
accommodate more than ten manufactured homes spaces up to and including 20
manufactured home spaces plus an amount as set by the City Council from time to
time per year for every space over 20 in such park.
      (2)   Before such license may be renewed, the premises shall be inspected
by the city in order to ensure that the mobile home park conforms to the
ordinances of the city and the laws of the state.
      (3)   Mobile home parks that are found to be in non-compliance shall be
given 30 days to correct the non-compliance issues. If non-compliances continue
beyond 30 days, the mobile home park license shall be denied and the applicants
notified by certified letter or personal service, or both.
   (D)   Recreation vehicles in mobile home parks.
      (1)   Where lots or spaces are rented out by the day or week for RV or
camper placement, the mobile home park shall be subject to the following
licenses and permits:
         (a)   Use permit for the operation of an RV park from the city; and
         (b)   Campground license as required by the State Department of
Health.
      (2)   Lots or spaces within mobile home parks that are rented or leased
for the placement of RVs and campers shall be rented or leased for a period of
time of not less than 28 days and not greater than 180 days.
(Prior Code, § 13-A-04)
§ 151.05 MANUFACTURED HOMES OUTSIDE OF MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   A building permit shall be required for any manufactured home being
moved into or within the city. Exception: a building permit shall not be
required for moving a manufactured home from one lot to another within a mobile
home park.
      (2)   Any manufactured home placed outside of a mobile home park shall
comply with the regulations of the district where it is to be placed. The home
location must meet all area requirements of the zone district and must include
a permanent foundation with anchor system to secure the home from movement and
give a more permanent visual image within the residential district.
   (B)   Uninhabitable manufactured homes. Uninhabitable manufactured homes
within mobile home parks shall be removed within 60 days of being abandoned and
the home site is to be restored to original condition.
   (C)   Required. A building permit shall be required for:
      (1)   Any accessory structure over 200 square feet in area;
      (2)   Any deck or porch where the walking surface is over 30 inches above
grade at any point; and
      (3)   Any deck or porch supporting a roof system.
(Prior Code, § 13-A-05)
§ 151.06 EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARKS AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Area regulations for existing mobile home parks.
      (1)   Manufactured homes or accessory structures shall not be placed
closer than 25 feet to any property line adjacent to a street except as
provided for as in §
155.048.
      (2)   Manufactured homes or accessory structures shall not be placed
closer than five feet to any alley.
      (3)   Where a mobile home park borders another district, the side yard
setback shall be in accordance with the stricter of the two districts.
      (4)   A manufactured home space shall be of sufficient size to provide at
least ten feet of clear space end-to-end, and 20 feet side-to-side, to any
other structure or placement, except that:
         (a)   Unenclosed porches or decks may encroach up to six feet into the
required side setback provided that the porch or deck is not greater than 60
square feet in total area; and
         (b)   In no case shall the exterior of a detached carport be closer
than three feet to any other structure.
      (5)   Accessory structures for a mobile home park space shall be limited
to:
         (a)   One storage shed not to exceed 120 square feet in area;
         (b)   One carport not to exceed 400 square feet in area and 12 feet in
total height, and shall be required to meet all applicable setback
requirements; and
         (c)   A combination carport/storage shed where the aggregate area does
not exceed the area and height restrictions above.
   (B)   Area regulations for recreation vehicles. Recreation vehicles (RVs)
shall comply with the same area regulations as manufactured homes.
(Prior Code, § 13-A-06) (Ord. 1156, passed 10- -2015)
CHAPTER 152: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
   
152.01   Introduction and purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Site development permit application
   
152.04   Clearing and grading
   
152.05   Inspection
   
152.06   Enforcement
   
152.07   Appeals
§ 152.01 INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Introduction. As a result of excavation, grading and construction
processes, or other human activities, soil is prone to erosion by wind and
water. This eroded soil endangers water resources by reducing water quality,
increasing pollutants and causes the siltation of aquatic habitat for fish and
other desirable species, and oftentimes adversely affects streets, rights-of-
way and neighboring properties via inundation of increased and/or concentrated
storm water runoff.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this local regulation is to safeguard persons,
protect property, safeguard natural drainages and waterways, to prevent damage
to the environment and promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or
other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in the movement
of earth on land within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 32-01) (Ord. 1088, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOND. Security consisting of a cash deposit, surety bond, personal
guarantee, collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to and approved by the City Council whenever a bond is required by
these regulations.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The appointed official responsible for the administration
and enforcement of the city’s codes and ordinances regulating construction, use
or occupancy of buildings and structures, public or private.
   CITY. The City of Hot Springs, Fall River County, South Dakota.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City of Hot Springs’ Public Works Engineer.
   CLEARING. Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. A platted drainage easement across private property to a
designated outlet or a storm water detention area.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM.  Including, but not limited to, street curb and gutter,
storm sewer pipes and catch basins, channels, detention ponds and natural
waterways.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any channel or conveyance that allows surface runoff
throughout the site.
   EASEMENT. A right to land generally established in a real estate deed or on
a recorded plat to permit the use of land by the public, a corporation or
particular persons for specified uses.
   EROSION CONTROL. A measure or combination of measures that prevents erosion.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A set of plans prepared by or under the
direction of a licensed professional engineer, or by the owner or contractor
where applicable, indicating the specific measures and sequencing to be used to
control sediment and erosion on a development site before, during and after
construction.
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   GOVERNING BODY. The duly elected officials of a corporate political entity
to whom authority is given to make, adopt and amend subdivision regulations.
   GRADING. Excavation or fill of material, including the resulting conditions
thereof.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural
Resources (SD-DENR).
   OTHER HUMAN ACTIVITIES. Activities other than those associated with
excavation, grading, construction or development which results in the removal
or disturbance of surface vegetation causing increased erosion and/or
sedimentation concerns.
   PERIMETER CONTROL. A barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a site
either by filtering sediment-laden runoff, or diverting it to a sediment trap
or basin.
   PHASING. Clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with the
stabilization of each phase before the clearing of the next.
   RIP RAP. Also known as rubble, shot rock or other material used to protect
shorelines streambeds, bridge abutments, pilings and other shoreline structures
against water or ice erosion.
   SD-DOT BMPS. South Dakota Department of Transportation’s Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Best Management Practices.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. A measure or combination of measures that prevents
sediment from leaving the site.
   SITE. The total area within a parcel of land that is directly or indirectly
affected by earth moving activities, to include the storing and staging of
equipment and materials.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT. The excavation, filling, grading, construction or
development of property.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the city for excavation,
grading, construction or development of property.
   STABILIZATION. The use of practices that prevent exposed soil from eroding.
   STORM WATER. Surface runoff generated from rain or snowmelt.
   WATERCOURSE.
      (1)   Any body of water including lakes, ponds, rivers and streams.
      (2)   Seasonal drainages, natural drainages, canyons, gulches, draws or
other bodies of water which are recognized as such by the City of Hot Springs,
the Corps of Engineers or the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   WATERWAY. A channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse, or to the
public storm drain.
(Prior Code, § 32-02) (Ord. 1088, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 152.03 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application and approval.
      (1)   Any person performing earth-disturbing activities, including
filling activities, that affect greater than 599 square feet of area, or 30
cubic yards of material, shall first make application for a site development
permit on a form provided by the city.
      (2)   An erosion and sediment control plan, along with the required fees,
is required to accompany the application for the site development permit. The
plan shall include proposed erosion control methods for all earth moving
activities. The application review period begins upon receipt of a completed
application and fees.
      (3)   Application for a permit shall be made prior to any grading
operations. Any unauthorized work shall be considered a violation regardless of
any later actions taken towards compliance. A building permit shall not be
issued for properties that are not in compliance with these requirements.
      (4)   Soil test borings, geotechnical investigations, vegetative cutting
for land surveys, percolation tests and similar activities shall not be
considered start of work.
      (5)   The city will review each application for a site development permit
to determine its conformance with the provisions of local regulations. Within
30 days after receiving an application, the city shall, in writing, either:
         (a)   Approve the permit application;
         (b)   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
regulation, and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
         (c)   Deny the permit application, indicating the deficiencies and the
procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
      (6)   (a)   The fee for a site development permit shall be based on the
size of the site as follows:
            1.   Site 600 square feet to 10,000 square feet: an amount as set
by the City Council from time to time;
            2.   Site 10,001 square feet to 43,560 square feet: an amount as
set by the City Council from time to time; and
            3.   Site greater than 43,560 square feet: an amount as set by the
City Council from time to time.
         (b)   Note: The amount of the site development permit fee for a
residential dwelling, commercial building or accessory buildings thereto, shall
be deducted from that individual’s building permit fee at the time the building
permit is issued.
      (7)   Failure of the city to act on a properly submitted original or
revised applications within 30 days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to
proceed in accordance with the plans as filed unless such time is extended by
agreement between the applicant and the city. Pending preparation and approval
of a revised plan, development activities shall be allowed to proceed in
accordance with conditions established by this chapter.
   (B)   General information.
      (1)   Platted drainage easements shall be provided where surface runoff
is directed or concentrated or where storm water detention is provided.
      (2)   Existing watercourses, as defined in this chapter, shall not be
altered or impeded unless otherwise expressly approved by the governing body
having jurisdiction over said watercourse.
      (3)   Erosion and sediment control plans for sites greater than 43,560
square feet in area shall be prepared by a registered design professional.
      (4)   Subdivision erosion and sediment control plans must incorporate a
separate detailed drawing and narrative describing minimum erosion and sediment
control measures on individual lots within the approved subdivision.
      (5)   Individual lots of less than one acre in a subdivision where an
erosion and sediment control plan has been approved shall not be considered a
separate construction project but shall be considered a part of the subdivision
as a whole. It shall be the responsibility of such lot owner to conform to all
the requirements of the approved erosion and sediment control plan for the
subdivision.
      (6)   All applicants shall, where applicable, obtain coverage under the
state’s general permit for storm water discharges associated with construction
activities.
   (C)   Required information.
      (1)   Plan. The erosion and sediment control plan shall include:
         (a)   For sites greater than 43,560 square feet in area:
            1.   A site plan identifying existing ground and forest cover and
other resources protected under this chapter. The site plan shall be adequately
scaled and detailed for clarity.
            2.   A sequence of construction of the development site, including
stripping and clearing, rough grading, construction of utilities,
infrastructure and buildings and final grading and landscaping. Sequencing
shall identify the expected date on which clearing will begin, the estimated
duration of exposure of cleared areas, and the sequence of clearing,
installation of temporary erosion and sediment measures and establishment of
permanent vegetation.
            3.   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seedbed
preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of fertilizer application,
and kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent vegetative
control measures.
         (b)   For sites less than 43,560 square feet in area:
            1.   A site plan identifying existing ground and forest cover and
other resources protected under this chapter. The site plan shall be adequately
scaled and detailed for clarity.
            2.   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seedbed
preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of fertilizer application,
and kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent vegetative
control measures.
      (2)   Modifications to the plan.
         (a)   Major amendments of the erosion and sediment control plan shall
be submitted to the Building Official and shall be processed and approved, or
disapproved, in the same manner as the original plans.
         (b)   Field modifications of a minor nature may be authorized by the
city via written authorization to the permittee.
   (D)   Exceptions. A site development permit is not required for the
following activities:
      (1)   Earth moving activities involving less than 600 square feet of
area;
      (2)   Any emergency activity immediately necessary for the protection of
life, property or natural resources;
      (3)   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a
permitted primary or accessory use;
      (4)   Sidewalk and driveway construction disrupting less than 1,000
square feet of surface area;
      (5)   Underground utility installation and repair projects confined
within improved streets of impervious materials, provided such activities are
confined to the hard-surfaced area and provided the soils stockpiles are
confined to the project area;
      (6)   Mining operations as permitted by the state and approved by the
city; and
      (7)   Earth-disturbing activities approved by the City Building Official
or Public Works Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 32-03) (Ord. 1088, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 152.04 CLEARING AND GRADING.
   (A)   Scope. Clearing and grading activities affecting greater than one
acre, and all activities affecting waterway crossings shall meet the design
criteria set forth in the most recent version of the South Dakota Department of
Transportation’s Erosion and Sedimentation Control Best Management Practices
(SD-DOT BMPs), and shall be adequate to prevent transportation of sediment from
the site to the satisfaction of the city.
   (B)   Clearing and grading.
      (1)   Clearing and grading of natural resources, such as forests and
wetlands, shall not be permitted, except when in compliance with all other
chapters of this section.
      (2)   Clearing techniques that retain natural vegetation and retain
natural drainage patterns, as described in the SD-DOT BMPs, shall be used to
the satisfaction of the city.
      (3)   Phasing shall be required on all sites disturbing greater than ten
acres, with the size of each phase to be established at plan review and as
approved by the city.
      (4)   Clearing, except that necessary to establish sediment control
devices, shall not begin until all sediment control devices have been installed
and have been stabilized.
      (5)   Cut and fill slopes shall be no greater than 2:1, except as
approved by the city to meet other community or environmental objectives.
      (6)   Landscaping provided for erosion and sediment control, property
protection, final backfill grade or storm water detention areas shall be shown
on the plan with projected completion dates indicated.
   (C)   Erosion control.
      (1)   Soil must be stabilized within seven days of clearing or inactivity
in construction.
      (2)   If vegetative erosion control methods, such as seeding, have not
become established within four weeks, the city may require that the site be
reseeded, or that a non-vegetative option be employed.
      (3)   On steep slopes or in drainage ways, special techniques that meet
the design criteria outlined in the SD-DOT BMPs shall be used to ensure
stabilization.
      (4)   Soil stockpiles must be secured against erosion or silting at the
end of each work day.
      (5)   At the close of the construction season, the entire site must be
stabilized, using a heavy mulch layer, or another method that does not require
germination to control erosion.
      (6)   Techniques shall be employed to prevent the blowing of dust or
sediment from the site.
      (7)   Techniques that divert-upland runoff past disturbed slopes shall be
employed.
   (D)   Sediment controls.
      (1)   Sediment controls shall be provided in the form of settling basins
or sediment traps or tanks, and perimeter controls.
      (2)   Where possible, settling basins shall be designed in a manner that
allows adaptation to provide long-term storm water management.
      (3)   Adjacent properties shall be protected by the use of a vegetated
buffer strip, in combination with perimeter controls.
   (E)   Waterways and watercourses.
      (1)   When a wet watercourse must be crossed regularly during
construction, a temporary stream crossing shall be provided and approval
obtained from the appropriate agency(ies) having jurisdiction over such
watercourse.
      (2)   When in-channel work is conducted, the channel shall be stabilized
before, during and after work.
      (3)   All on-site storm water conveyance channels shall be designed
according to the criteria outlined in the SD-DOT BMPs.
      (4)   Stabilization adequate to prevent erosion must be provided at the
outlets of all pipes and paved channels.
   (F)   Construction site access.
      (1)   A temporary access road shall be provided at all sites.
      (2)   Other measures may be required at the discretion of the city in
order to ensure that sediment is not tracked onto public streets by
construction vehicles, or washed into storm drains.
(Prior Code, § 32-04) (Ord. 1088, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 152.05 INSPECTION.
   All construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection as required or authorized by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 32-05) (Ord. 1088, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 152.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Stop-work order; revocation of permit.
      (1)   In the event that any person holding a site development permit
pursuant to this chapter violates the terms of the permit, or implements site
development in such a manner as to materially adversely affect the health,
welfare or safety or persons residing or working in the neighborhood or
development site so as to be materially detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood, the city may suspend
or revoke the site development permit.
      (2)   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain any
grading, excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in
violation of any terms of this chapter. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalties under §
10.99 of the municipal code. In addition to any other penalty authorized by
this section, in the event of commencement of construction without an approved
permit, the fee for said permit shall be multiplied by a factor of four.
   (B)   Remedies for non-compliance of regulations.
      (1)   Should erosion and sediment controls fail during a rain event, or
soils are placed in a manner inconsistent with proper erosion and sediment
control practices, either of which imminently endangers a property or waterway,
the city, after a good faith effort to contact the responsible party(ies), may
implement emergency measures to secure the site, the cost thereof shall be
charged to that responsible party.
      (2)   Site development permits shall be denied to applicants who have
exhibited a practice of non-compliance with the erosion and sediment control
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 32-06) (Ord. 1088, passed 4-5-2010)
§ 152.07 APPEALS.
   Appeals to the decision of the Building Official in the determination of the
provisions of this code shall be made to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 32-07) (Ord. 1088, passed 4-5-2010)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   General provisions
   
153.03   Administration
   
153.04   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Building Official interpretation of
any provisions of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation
of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads) are completed before the effective date of this
chapter.
   EXPANSION TO EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary floodway map
and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the original ordinance, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of these floodplain management regulations.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual START means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
(Ord. 1090, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 153.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood Insurance Study for City
of Hot Springs, December 18, 2007, with an accompanying Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) Numbers 46047C0125C, 46047C0128C, 46047C0136C and 46047C0137C, are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
flood insurance study and FIRM are on file at City Hall, 303 N. River Street,
Hot Springs, South Dakota 57747.
   (C)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms
of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (D)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (E)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (F)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by human-made or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the city, any officer or employee of the community thereof, or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 1090, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 153.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Establishment of development permit.
      (1)   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
153.02(B).
      (2)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms
furnished by the Building Official and may include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location
of the foregoing; and
         (b)   Specifically, the following information is required:
            1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
            2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure
has been floodproofed;
            3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the floodproofing methods for any non-residential structure meet
the floodproofing criteria in §
153.04(B)(2); and
            4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (4)   Where base flood elevations are utilized, all new construction,
substantial improvements and other development must comply with requirements of
division (C)(2) below.
   (B)   Administration. The City Building Official is hereby appointed to
administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with its provisions.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities. Duties and responsibilities of the
Building Official shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Permit review.
         (a)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         (b)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required.
         (c)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that
the encroachment provisions of §
153.04(C)(1) are met.
      (2)   Use of other base flood data.
         (a)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in
accordance with §
153.02(B), the Building Official shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from any federal, state or
other source.
         (b)   Where base flood elevation data are utilized, all new
construction, substantial improvements or other development in Zone A are
administered in accordance with division (C)(3) below and §
153.04(B).
      (3)   Information to be obtained and maintained.
         (a)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
         (b)   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            1.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level) to which the structure has been floodproofed.
            2.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in division
(A)(3) above.
         (c)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Alteration of watercourses.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of
Environment and Natural Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         (b)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      (5)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. Make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in division (D)(1) below.
   (D)   Variance procedure.
      (1)   Appeal Board.
         (a)   The City Board of Adjustment, as established by the city, shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
         (b)   The City Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Building Official in the enforcement of this chapter.
         (c)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the City Board of Adjustment,
or any taxpayer, may appeal such decisions to the State Circuit Court.
         (d)   In passing upon such applications, the City Board of Adjustment
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
            2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owners;
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
            6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with the existing and
anticipated development;
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, streets and
bridges.
         (e)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (D)(1)(d) above
and the purposes of this chapter, the City Board of Adjustment may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (2)   Records. The Building Official shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions, including technical information, and report any variances to
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (E)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in divisions (D)(1)(d) above have
been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the
technical justifications required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expenses, create nuisances, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public as identified in division (D)(1)(a) above or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
(Ord. 1090, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 153.04 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazard, the following
standards are required.
      (1)   Anchoring.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
and capable of resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement and capable of resisting the
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of anchoring may include, but are
not limited to use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. Specific requirements may be:
            1.   Over the top ties be provided at each of the four corners of
the manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate
locations, with manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side.
            2.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
            3.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds; and
            4.   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
      (2)   Construction materials and methods.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         (c)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      (3)   Utilities.
         (a)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
         (b)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
         (c)   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (4)   Subdivision proposals.
         (a)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         (b)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         (c)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
         (d)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which contain at least 50 lots or five
acres (whichever is less).
   (B)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in §
153.02(B) or §
153.03(C)(2), the following provisions are required.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         (a)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood elevation the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this division (B)(2). Such
certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
153.03(C)(3).
      (3)   Openings in enclosures below the lowest floor.
         (a)   For all new construction and substantial improvements, fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
         (b)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by
a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (4)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance with division
(A)(1)(b) above.
         (b)   All manufactured homes or those to be substantially improved
shall conform to the following requirements:
            1.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or
substantially improved on a site:
               a.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
               b.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
               c.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
               d.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
            2.   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions that are
not subject to the provisions in division (B)(4)(b)1. above be elevated so that
either: the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation, or the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes.
   (C)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
153.02(B) are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions apply.
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (C)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1090, passed 5-3-2010)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
154.01   Authority and jurisdiction
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Outline of procedure
   
154.04   Design standards
   
154.05   Required improvements
   
154.06   Variances
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Authority. Pursuant to the authority granted by SDCL Chapters 11-4 and
11-6, as amended, the following regulations are hereby adopted by the City
Council.
   (B)   Purpose. These regulations are adopted to provide for the harmonious
development of the city and its environs; for the coordination of streets
within subdivisions with other existing or planned streets or with other
features of the comprehensive plan; for adequate open spaces for traffic,
recreation, light and air; and for a distribution of population and traffic
which will tend to create conditions favorable to health, safety and
convenience through the provision for an adequate scale of streets, or roads,
sanitary, water, utility and other improvements as land is subdivided.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. These regulations shall govern all subdivisions of land
within the jurisdiction of the city. Subdivisions governed are hereinafter
defined under §
154.02.
(Prior Code, § 28-01)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor public way having a narrow right-of-way and affording a
secondary means of access to abutting properties.
   AUDITOR. The Finance Officer of Hot Springs, South Dakota.
   BOND. Security consisting of a cash deposit, surety bond, personal
guarantee, collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to and approved by the City Council whenever a bond is required by
these regulations.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. The instrument issued by the Building Inspector
when a building has been inspected and found to meet adopted codes and
ordinances relating to construction. Such certificate authorizes occupancy of
said building.
   COMPREHENSIVE/DEVELOPMENT PLAN. Any legally adopted part or element of the
comprehensive/development plan of the city. This may include, but is not
limited to, zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance, community facilities plan,
major street plan, improvements program and land use plan.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
turn-a-round at its terminus for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic.
   EASEMENT. A right to land generally established in a real estate deed or on
a recorded plat to permit the use of land by the public, a corporation or
particular persons for specified uses.
   ENGINEER.
      (1)   The duly designated engineer acting in behalf of the governing
body.
      (2)   The Public Works Engineer.
   FINAL PLAT. A plat of a tract of land which meets the requirements of these
regulations and is in form for recording in the office of the Register of Deeds
of the county.
   FUELBREAK. A strategically located strip or block of land varying in width,
on which some vegetation has been modified to reduce the rate of fire spread to
provide a safe place for firefighters to work and where fires may be more
readily controlled. A FUELBREAK usually provides all wheel drive access and an
advantageous area for quickly and safely constructing and manning a fire line.
   GOVERNING BODY. The duly elected officials of a corporate political entity
to whom authority is given to make, adopt and amend subdivision regulations.
   HAMMERHEAD TURN-A-ROUND. A “Tee” at a driveway, road or street intersection
that is at least 20 feet wide and where each leg is at least 30 feet long; an
area sufficient to provide a turn-a-round for emergency response vehicles.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural
Resources. (SD-DENR)
   LANES. Residential streets servicing low-density residential districts that
typically receive localized low-traffic patterns.
   LOT. A platted parcel of land intended to transfer ownership or for building
development.
   LOW DENSITY. Subdivisions having an average density of one and one-half lots
per acre or less.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. The major street plan adopted as an element of the
comprehensive/development plan.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions of four or more lots.
   MASTER DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PLAN. The City of Hot Springs’ Erosion and
Sediment Control Ordinance.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing no more than three lots.
   MOUNTAIN SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions located within the limits of the
Black Hills Fire District of South Dakota and also any subdivision where
contours for any given cross section of the subdivision indicate an average
cross slope greater than 15%.
   OWNER’S ENGINEER. The registered Land Surveyor or the Civil Engineer
registered and in good standing with the State Board of Professions who is the
agent of the owner of land which is proposed to be subdivided or which is in
the process of being subdivided.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The City of Hot Springs Planning and Zoning
Commission, also herein referred to as COMMISSION or THE COMMISSION or THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The map or maps of a proposed subdivision and specified
supporting materials, drawn and submitted in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter, to permit the evaluation of the proposal prior to detailed
engineering and design.
   REGISTER OF DEEDS. The duly designated Register of Deeds of Fall River
County, South Dakota.
   SKETCH PLAN. The sketch map or maps of a proposed subdivision, drawn and
submitted in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, to evaluate
feasibility and design characteristics at an early stage in the planning.
   SPECIFICATIONS. The specifications which have been adopted by the governing
body.
   STREET. A tract of land, dedicated to public use, which affords the primary
means of access to the abutting property, but excluding the private driveways
serving only one parcel of land.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A road intended to move traffic from residential streets
to minor arterial streets.
   STREET, MAJOR ARTERIAL. A road of considerable continuity, which is
primarily a through-traffic artery for interconnection among large areas.
   STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL. A road supplementary to the major streets and
primarily a means of interconnection between minor traffic-generating areas.
These streets carry traffic from collector streets to the major arterial
streets.
   STREET, RESIDENTIAL. A lane, a minor, major or low-density residential
street intended to provide access to other streets or roads.
   SUBDIVIDER. The person(s), firm(s) or corporation(s), owning land in the
process of creating a subdivision of said land.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division of any parcel or parcels of land for the purpose
of transfer of ownership, which creates two or more smaller parcels of land
(hereinafter referred to as lots).
      (1)   The use of the term SUBDIVISION includes:
         (a)   The dedication of a road, highway, street or alley, within the
subdivided land;
         (b)   A re-subdivision of a previously subdivided parcel of land (a
lot);
         (c)   Any building development project involving subdivided land; and
         (d)   The establishment of a deeded private driveway.
      (2)   When appropriate, the term SUBDIVISION shall relate to:
         (a)   The process of subdividing; and
         (b)   A parcel of land which is being or has been subdivided.
   UTILITIES. Municipal and franchised utilities.
   VICINITY MAP. A map indicating the location of the whole planned subdivision
in relation to the City of Hot Springs or other immediately recognizable and
distinguishable subdivision or landmark.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The official designated by the City Council to
administer the city’s zoning regulations.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning ordinance of the City of Hot Springs, South
Dakota.
(Prior Code, § 28-02)
§ 154.03 OUTLINE OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   General. The applicant or a designated agent shall attend each meeting
where action is requested. If represented by an agent, such designation shall
be in writing and filed with the application.
   (B)   Vicinity map, street names.
      (1)   A vicinity map shall accompany or be shown on the preliminary plan
or sketch plan at a legible scale showing all existing subdivision streets,
tract lines or acreage parcels adjoining the proposed subdivision. It shall
show how streets in the proposed subdivision connect with existing and proposed
streets in adjoining subdivisions and future street openings to undeveloped
property, to produce the most advantageous development of the adjoining area.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit proposed street names for E-911
approval with the preliminary plat or sketch plan.
         (a)   Minor subdivision. A sketch plan may be submitted as a
preliminary plat for a minor subdivision. If the property proposed for
development involves areas where it would be desirable to impose additional
requirements, the administrative official may require some or all the data
contained in the requirements for preliminary plat for major subdivisions.
         (b)   Major subdivision. The plat submitted shall be of such scale
that all survey, mathematical information and all other details are clearly and
legibly shown. Each lot and block shall be lettered or numbered. The area in
square feet and dimensions of all boundaries of each lot shall be shown. The
plat shall also show:
            1.   Proposed legal description;
            2.   The proposed name of the subdivision;
            3.   North arrow, scale;
            4.   The boundary line (accurate in scale) of the tract to be
subdivided;
            5.   If deemed appropriate by the Commission, a topographic map
with minimum five-foot contours shall be provided;
            6.   Drainage plan and, if applicable, a FEMA floodplain map
overlay;
            7.   The names of adjacent property owners and lot descriptions;
            8.   The location, widths and names of all existing or platted
streets or other public ways within or adjacent to the tract;
            9.   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or
reserved in the deeds for use of all property owners in the proposed
subdivision, together with the purpose of conditions or limitations of such
reservation, if any;
            10.   The layout, names (if previously approved), and widths of
existing and proposed streets and easements; and
            11.   When required by the Commission, the preliminary plat shall
be accompanied by:
               a.   The profile of each street with tentative grades for a
reasonable distance beyond the limits of the subdivision; and
               b.   The cross section of proposed streets showing the width of
roadways, locations and width of sidewalks. All elevations shall be based upon
mean sea level datum.
         (c)   Where a replat of an existing plat is being submitted for
consideration, the location of the existing plat shall be indicated by
insertion of broken lines and a statement, where appropriate, vacating the
former plat.
      (3)   Floodplain revisions. At the time of preliminary plat submittal,
the applicant shall provide a copy of the letter of map change request as
submitted to the Flood Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). If there is no
floodplain on the subject property, this requirement may be waived if not
applicable. The city may refuse to accept a preliminary plat without this
letter and may also refuse to accept a preliminary plat where a floodplain may
exist and the Floodplain Administrator has made a written determination that a
letter of map revision is required.
   (C)   Administrative procedures. 
      (1)   In addition to the requirements established herein, all new plats,
re-plats, subdivision plats and the vacating of any improved street, alley or
right-of-way shall be reviewed by the City Planning and Zoning Commission to
ensure compliance with the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Governing body approval of plats:
         (a)   Minor subdivision.
            1.   Application shall be made in the form of a letter of intent
outlining the nature and purpose of the subdivision. Such application and
required documentation shall be presented to the Zoning Administrator no less
than 15 days prior to the next scheduled meeting of the Commission;
            2.   For all properties where changes in the floodplain are
proposed, written verification from FEMA that the letter of map revision has
been approved;
            3.   Sketch plan approval by the Zoning Administrator;
            4.   Commission review of proposed subdivision with recommendations
to Council within 30 days of review;
            5.   Applicant shall submit a final plat and submit Mylar, one
full-size copy (to scale) and one 11 by 17 copy, to the Zoning Administrator
for Council review;
            6.   Approval or disapproval by the City Council within 30 days of
review; and
            7.   Recording.
         (b)   Major subdivision.
            1.   Application shall be made in the form of a letter of intent
outlining the nature and purpose of the subdivision. Such application and
required documentation shall be presented to the Zoning Administrator no less
than 15 days prior to the next scheduled meeting of the Commission;
            2.   For all properties where changes in the floodplain are
proposed, written verification from FEMA that the letter of map revision has
been approved;
            3.   Sketch plan approval by the Zoning Administrator;
            4.   Commission’s preliminary review of proposed subdivision.
Establish development requirements;
            5.   When required by the Commission, submit copies of the plat for
distribution and review of applicable utility companies and city, county, state
and federal agencies. Such agencies shall have 30 days to respond;
            6.   Commission’s final review. Recommendation to the City Council
within 30 days of final review;
            7.   Applicant shall submit a final plat and submit Mylar, one
full-size copy (to scale) and one 11 by 17 copy, to the Zoning Administrator
for Council review;
            8.   Approval or disapproval by the City Council within 30 days of
review; and
            9.   Recording.
   (D)   Infrastructure completion prior to recording of final plat.
      (1)   No final plat of a major subdivision may be recorded before the
installation and city approval of all public improvements including, but not
limited to: paved streets, curb, gutter, sidewalk, water lines, sewer lines
(including sanitary district lines) and drainage improvements. The City Council
may grant a special exception to allow a delay in the laying of asphalt during
times of the year when asphalt is not available per the following conditions:
         (a)   A letter of credit, bond or other guarantee for asphalt paving
is provided and names the city as the beneficiary.
         (b)   All building permits issued will contain a clause stating that
no structure may be occupied before street paving is complete and accepted by
the city.
         (c)   Where no street improvements exist but a final plat is recorded,
these provisions shall not prohibit the city from issuing a building permit
provided that the permit is issued with notice to the contractor/owner that no
garbage collection or plowing of the street can take place until final street
improvements are installed.
      (2)   The Commission may also require additional bonding where necessary
to ensure the completion of infrastructure, drainage or landscaping
requirements.
   (E)   Final plats. The final plat shall be submitted in the form of one
Mylar, one full-size copy (to scale), one 11 by 17 copy. The final plat shall
be drawn to scale of not more than one inch equals 100 feet and shall show:
      (1)   Name and legal description of subdivision;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner;
      (3)   North arrow, scale;
      (4)   The boundary lines with accurate distances and bearings, the exact
location and widths of all existing or recorded streets and ways intersecting
the boundary of the tract;
      (5)   True bearings and distances to the nearest established street lines
or official monuments, which shall be accurately described on the plat;
municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to the lines of
the subdivision by distances and bearings;
      (6)   An accurate vicinity map of the subdivision in reference to the
real estate records of the county including names of adjacent recorded owners
of property;
      (7)   Streets and alleys together with approved names;
      (8)   The length of all arcs, radii, internal angles and points of
curvature;
      (9)   All existing and proposed easements and rights-of-way provided for
public services, utilities or access and any limitations of the easements;
      (10)   All block indications, lot numbers and lot lines with accurate
dimensions in feet and hundredths, and bearings or angles in degrees, minutes
and seconds;
      (11)   The accurate location, material and approximate size of all
monuments;
      (12)   The designation of easements and rights-of-way and all property
which is offered for dedication for the public use, with the purpose indicated
thereon, and of all property that may be reserved by deed covenant for the
common use of the property owners in the subdivision; and
      (13)   Monuments shall be located and/or set at each angle and curve
point on the outside boundary lines of the plat, at all block corners and at
all intermediate points on the block lines indicating a change of direction in
the lines. The plat shall indicate that the monuments have been set or found.
(Prior Code, § 28-03)
§ 154.04 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Conformity to Comprehensive Development Plan. Designs shall conform to
the City Comprehensive Development Plan. The following requirements of design
and development are to be considered as minimum standards.
   (B)   Duties of subdivider.
      (1)   Provide typical sections and profiles of the proposed streets
showing widths and grades of roadways, types of surfacing, curb locations and
width and location of sidewalks;
      (2)   Provide preliminary layout plan and profiles of proposed sanitary
and storm sewers, with tentative grades, pipe sizes and the location of
appurtenances;
      (3)   Provided preliminary layout plan and profiles of the proposed water
distribution system showing tentative pipe sizes and location of appurtenances;
and
      (4)   Provide lighting plan.
   (C)   Relation to adjoining street system.
      (1)   A subdivision shall provide for the continuation of the principal
streets existing in the adjoining subdivisions or of their proper projection
when adjoining property is not subdivided, and such streets shall be of a width
not less than the minimum requirements for streets set forth in the regulations
of this chapter.
      (2)   Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider’s
tract, drawing of the prospective future street system of the entire tract
shall be furnished and the street system of the part submitted shall be
considered in light of conformity to the street system of the entire tract.
      (3)   Where a tract is subdivided into lots of an acre or more, the
Planning Commission may require an arrangement of lots and streets such as to
permit a later subdivision in conformity to the street requirements and other
requirements contained in this chapter.
      (4)   No lane, road, avenue, street or platted street or right-of-way
shall be accessed through any privately owned property or by any subdivision or
development except where that access has been reviewed by the Planning
Commission and accepted by the city as a deeded or platted access, and in no
case shall any lane, road, avenue or street receive traffic flow greater than
its intent and design.
Residential Streets Table
 Lane Minor Residential Major Residential* Low Density Residential
Residential Streets Table
                     Lane   Minor Residential Major        Low Density
                                              Residential* Residential
Volume (ADT)         100    Up to 300         Up to 1,000
Design speed         15 mph 20 mph            25 mph       30 mph
ROW width            30'    50'               60'          60'
Traveled width       20'    29'               38'          24', 2-ft. paved
                                                           shoulders
Parking              No     One side          Both sides   No
Curb/gutter (see §  No     Yes               Yes          No
154.05(C))
Sidewalk (5')        No     One side          Both sides   No
*Minimum standard for districts with average density greater than five lots
per acre.
Arterial Streets Table
 Residential Collector Major Arterial Minor Arterial
Arterial Streets Table
                     Residential Collector Major Arterial Minor Arterial
Volume (ADT)         Up to 3,000           Up to 5,000    Up to 3,000
Design speed         25 mph                35 mph+        35 mph
ROW width            60'                   70'            60'
Traveled width       40'                   48'*           36'*
Parking              Optional*             No             No
Curb/gutter (see §  Yes                   Yes            Yes
154.05(C))
Sidewalk (5')        Both sides            Both sides     Both sides
                     *Parking may or may not be allowed, on a case-by-case
*12' moving lanes    basis, upon recommendation by the Street Superintendent
                     and Chief of Police.
 
Industrial Roads Table
Design speed         30 mph
ROW width            60'
Traveled width       36', 2-ft. paved shoulders
Parking              No
Curb/gutter (see §  No
154.05(C))
Sidewalk (5')        No
 
   (D)   Street plan. In order to provide for roads of suitable location, width
and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory
access to emergency services, snow removal, sanitation and road maintenance
equipment and to coordinate roads so as to compose a convenient system and
avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the following minimum design
standards for roads are hereby required.
      (1)   Minimum designs standards.
      (2)   Additional criteria.
         (a)   Cul-de-sacs:
            1.   Minimum property line radius: 50 feet; and
            2.   Traveled surface radius: 40 feet.
         (b)   Hammerhead turn-a-round: (allowed only on lanes):
            1.   Traveled width: 12 feet, 30 feet to centerline;
            2.   ROW: ten feet all sides; and
            3.   Radius: 16 feet.
         (c)   Residential traveled street width is based on moving lanes of
ten feet, parking lanes of nine feet.
         (d)   Traveled width does not include gutter, when required. Gutter
width is included in width of parking lanes.
         (e)   Where required, sidewalk width shall be five feet, setback five
feet from curb or edge of pavement. Wheelchair ramps shall be provided at all
intersections.
         (f)   ADT (average daily traffic) is based on four trips per single-
family residential dwelling unit, per day.
         (g)   All streets shall be improved with a wearing surface approved by
the city.
         (h)   Curb/gutter is not required only when a drainage plan for
surface water discharge has been approved by the Public Works Administrator.
   (E)   Street grades and condition.
      (1)   The grades of streets shall not exceed 10%, except under
unavoidable conditions approved by the Planning Commission at the time of
preliminary plat approval.
      (2)   All streets shall have at least a 0.3% grade.
   (F)   Street curves. Minimum centerlines of curvature, tangents, curb
radiuses and sight distances shall be based on design speed as per the
Institute of Transportation Engineers, Traffic Engineering Handbook, most
current edition.
   (G)   Alleys.
      (1)   Alleys may be required in commercial and industrial districts,
except that the Planning Commission may waive this requirement where another
definite and assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street
loading, unloading and parking consistent with zoning ordinance requirements.
Such alleys shall have a minimum of 20 feet of right-of-way and shall be
dedicated to the public.
      (2)   Alleys are not permitted in residential districts except when the
Planning Commission determines special conditions warrant a secondary means of
access.
   (H)   Sidewalks. As required in the tables in division (C) above, and as
required in division (D)(2)(e) above.
   (I)   Names.
      (1)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate by spelling or
sound, or will otherwise be confused with the names of existing streets. Street
names are subject to the approval of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Subdivision names and apartment project names shall not duplicate
or be confused with existing names. Subdivision and apartment project names are
subject to approval by the Planning Commission.
   (J)   Blocks.
      (1)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to:
         (a)   Provisions of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated;
         (b)   Zoning ordinance requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
         (c)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic; and
         (d)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
      (2)   Block lengths shall be subject to approval of the Planning
Commission but not less than 300 feet, and shall normally be wide enough to
allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth.
      (3)   Pedestrian crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, may be required
where deemed essential to provide circulation or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping centers, bus stops and other community facilities.
   (K)   Lots.
      (1)   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation, and the minimum
building setback lines shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision
and for the type of development and use contemplated.
      (2)   Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the zoning
ordinance and the requirements of the State Health Department. In such cases
where requirements may conflict, the larger requirements shall govern.
      (3)   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial
and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide off-street parking and
loading for the use contemplated.
      (4)   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from both streets.
      (5)   Each lot shall be provided with deeded access to a street. Double
frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to
provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to
overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. Along the line
of lots abutting such traffic artery or any other such disadvantageous feature,
the subdivider shall put in a planting screen easement of not less than ten
feet in width, across which no right of access shall be provided.
      (6)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to streets
except on curves where they shall be radial.
   (L)   Easements.
      (1)   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall
be provided for utilities and drainage where necessary and shall not be less
than 15 feet wide total unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway or
stream, there shall be provided a storm water drainage easement or right-of-way
conforming substantially with the lines of such existing or planned drainage
way. The width of such drainage easement or right-of-way shall conform
substantially to the lines of such existing or planned drainage way and shall
be sufficient to contain the ultimate channel and maintenance way for the
tributary area upstream. Calculations necessary to establishing the magnitude
of the drainage way will be paid for by the owner.
      (3)   Lots and easements shall be arranged in such a manner as to
eliminate unnecessary jogs or offsets and to facilitate the use of easements
for power distribution, telephone service and drainage, water and sewer
services.
      (4)   All easements shall be designated for public use only.
   (M)   Drainage and inundation. Drainage and inundation plan shall be
pursuant to
Chapter 152, Erosion and Sediment Control.
   (N)   Building restrictions. If the subdivision does not lie within the
force and effect of an existing zoning ordinance, the Planning and Zoning
Commission may require provisions for minimum front, side and rear yards, based
upon the standards of the zoning ordinance.
   (O)   Non-residential subdivisions. Non-residential subdivisions shall be
governed by any and all applicable regulations contained in this chapter.
   (P)   Private streets and reserve strips. There shall be no private streets
platted within a subdivision, and there shall be no reserve strips in a
subdivision except where their control is vested in the governing body.
Maintenance of such roads shall be the responsibility of the landowners, unless
accepted by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 28.04)
§ 154.05 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Utilities. All public and private water mains, sanitary sewers,
laterals and storm sewers shall be installed as necessary to prevent the future
cutting of pavement of any street, sidewalk or other required pavement.
   (B)   Streets and alleys. Streets and alleys where approved, shall be
constructed in accordance with current city specifications.
   (C)   Curbs and gutters. Standard “I” type curbs and gutters shall be placed
as required in the tables in §
154.04, and as required in §
154.04(D)(2)(h).
   (D)   Water mains. 
      (1)   The design and specifications of the distribution system shall meet
the city requirements but in no case shall water main size be less than six
inches.
      (2)   Fire hydrants, valves and accessories shall be installed as
specified.
      (3)   Water services shall be stubbed to the property line for each lot.
      (4)   Tracer wire or appropriate substitute shall be installed on all
water mains, service lines and accessory lines.
      (5)   If a well is required for each lot, the location, construction and
use of such well shall meet State Department of Environment and Natural
Resources’ requirements.
      (6)   If a well is to serve more than one lot, a public water system is
required. The design and specifications of such distribution system shall meet
city requirements as well as State Department of Environment and Natural
Resources requirements.
   (E)   Sewers.
      (1)   Sewers shall be installed in each subdivision where a public
sanitary sewer is within one-half mile of the subdivision, except where
restricted by the sanitation district or limited by topography or easement. In
all cases, the sewer infrastructure shall be installed in accordance with
current city specifications and provisions made for future connection to the
public sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Subdivisions not located within one-half mile of a public sanitary
sewer shall have alternate individual or community sanitary facilities which
shall be approved by the governing body and the State Department of Environment
and Natural Resources.
      (3)   Four-inch sewer stubs will be constructed from mains to all lots
prior to paving the street.
      (4)   Tracer wire or appropriate substitute shall be installed on all
sewer mains, service lines and accessory lines.
   (F)   Storm sewers and drainage. Storm sewers and drainage structures shall
be designed and installed as required by the Public Works Engineer in
accordance with good engineering practices and in accordance with Chapter 32
Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance.
   (G)   Private and public utilities. All utility distribution and service
systems shall be placed underground.
   (H)   Property markers. The corners of all lots and the beginning and
endings of all curves on property lines shall be accurately marked on the
ground with five-eighths to one and one-fourth inch diameter iron rods or pipes
at least 18 inches long.
   (I)   Street signs. The subdivider shall install durable street name signs
at all intersections which meet specifications of the governing body. One
street sign is required for each intersection.
   (J)   Oversize facilities. 
      (1)   The governing body may participate in the cost of “oversize”
improvements within a subdivision if it is adjudged that such oversize
improvements are necessary to serve large areas of land not in the subdivision
and if the cost of such oversize improvements is an unreasonable burden on the
subdivider.
      (2)   The subdivider shall not be required to pay the full cost of any
highway or arterial street, but shall participate in the cost of these
improvements in the amount that a “collector street” would cost if situated
where such highway or arterial street is located.
   (K)   Inspection. Each facility constructed in the subdivision shall be
subject to inspection by city officials.
(Prior Code, § 28.05)
§ 154.06 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Hardship. Where the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary
hardships, due to unusual topographic or other conditions, beyond the control
of the subdivider, may result from strict compliance with these regulations, it
may vary the regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured; provided that such variation will not have the effect of
nullifying the intent or purpose of the subdivision ordinance, zoning
ordinance, major street plan or other elements of the comprehensive/development
plan.
   (B)   Conditions. In granting variances, the Planning Commission may require
such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives
of the standards or requirements so varied, modified or approved. These
conditions may include, without being limited to, personal, surety, performance
or maintenance bonds, affidavits, covenants or other legal instruments.
(Prior Code, § 28.06)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land located within a
subdivision, transfers or sells any land by reference to or exhibition of or by
other use of a plat of a subdivision, before such plat has been approved by the
governing body and recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds, shall
forfeit and pay a penalty of an amount as set by the City Council from time to
time for each lot or parcel so transferred or sold; and the description or
other document of such lot or parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of
transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring shall
not exempt the transaction from such penalties or from the remedies herein
provided. The governing body may enjoin such transfer or sale or agreement by
action for injunction brought in any court of equity jurisdiction or may
recover the same penalty by a civil action in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 28.07)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title and purposes
   
155.002   Definitions
   
155.003   Zoning districts and map
   
155.004   Uses permitted on review
   
155.005   Nonconforming buildings, structures and uses of land
   
155.006   Prohibited uses
District Regulations
   
155.020   Residential A District (RA)
   
155.021   Residential B District (RB)
   
155.022   Mountain Residential District (MR)
   
155.023   General Commercial District (GC)
   
155.024   Mixed Use District-I (MXD-I)
   
155.025   Highway Service District (HS)
   
155.026   General Industrial District (GI)
   
155.027   Greenway District (GD)
   
155.028   No Use District (NU)
   
155.029   Golf Course District (MGC)
   
155.030   Golf Course Residential A District (GCRA)
   
155.031   Golf Course Commercial District (GCC)
   
155.032   Planned Unit Development District (PUD)
   
155.033   Airport Zone (AZ)
Supplementary Regulations
   
155.045   Landscape requirements, aesthetic barriers and screening requirements
   
155.046   Permitted accessory structures
   
155.047   Height regulations
   
155.048   Yard and building setback and open space exceptions
   
155.049   Minimum off-street parking requirements
   
155.050   Storage and parking of vehicles, trailers and equipment
   
155.051   Signs, billboards and other advertising structures
   
155.052   Gasoline service and filling stations
   
155.053   Customary home occupations
   
155.054   Temporary uses
   
155.055   Tents, campers; camping
   
155.056   Lighting, outside
   
155.057   Animal manure nuisance
   
155.058   Cannabis dispensaries
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.070   Organization
   
155.071   Variances
   
155.072   Certificate of occupancy
   
155.073   Procedure for authorizing uses permitted on review
   
155.074   Amendments
   
155.075   Fees
   
155.076   Pending ordinance rule
   
155.077   Conflict
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   Title. An ordinance to provide for the establishment of zoning
districts within which the proper use of land and natural resources shall be
encouraged and regulated; to establish minimum standards for open space,
building and population density; to regulate the occupancy and use of
dwellings, buildings and structures, mobile and manufactured housing, including
tents, campers and recreational vehicles (RVs), that may hereafter be erected,
altered or moved; to provide for the administration hereof; to provide for a
method of amending; to provide for conflicts with other acts, ordinances or
regulations; to provide for the collection of fees for the furtherance of the
purpose of this chapter; to provide for petitions and public hearings; to
provide for appeals and for the organization and procedure of the Board of
Adjustment; and to provide for penalties for the violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Short title. These regulations shall be known and may be cited as “The
City of Hot Springs Zoning Ordinance.”
   (C)   Purposes. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the safety,
health, morals, convenience and general welfare; to encourage the use of land
and natural resources in the city in accordance with their character,
adaptability and suitability for particular purposes; to conserve social and
economic stability, property values and the general character and trend of
community development; to prevent excessive concentration of population; to
facilitate adequate provision of streets and highways, storm water drainage,
sewage treatment, water supply and distribution, educational and other public
resources by establishing herein standards for community development in
accordance with these objectives and by providing for the enforcement of such
standards.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-01)
§ 155.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter and in order to carry out the provisions
and intentions as set forth herein, certain words, terms and phrases are to be
used and interpreted as defined hereinafter. Words used in the present tense
shall include the future tenses; words in the singular number shall include the
plural and words in the plural number shall include the singular; the word
“person” includes a firm, partnership or corporation, as well as an individual;
the word “lot” includes the word “plot” or “parcel,” and the word “building”
includes the word “structure,” the term “shall” is always mandatory; and the
word “may” is permissive. The word “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land
or building shall be construed to include the words “intended,” “arranged” or
“designed to be used or occupied.”
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY APARTMENT. A single apartment on the main commercial use floor of
a one to one and one-half story structure where the apartment takes up no more
than 25% of the overall ground floor area and the commercial use is maintained
as the primary use and occupies the store front.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental
to that of a main building located on the same lot therewith.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental, appropriate and subordinate to
the principal use of land or buildings and located upon the same lot therewith.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which affords a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street and which may be used for public utility purposes.
   ALTERATIONS. As applied to a building or structure, means a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts, or an enlargement, whether by extending
on a size or by increasing in height, or the moving from one location or
position to another.
   AMUSEMENT AND RECREATION ESTABLISHMENTS. Businesses whose primary function
is entertainment, such as theaters, billiard halls and the like.
   ARBOR. A detached, open framework yard or garden accessory structure that is
integrated into landscape designs to provide shade and leisure, often including
trellis or latticework for training climbing plants.
   AREA, BUILDING. The total areas taken on a horizontal plane at the main
grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings exclusive of
uncovered porches, terraces and steps.
   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any adult arcade, adult bookstore or video store,
cabaret, adult live entertainment establishment, adult motion picture theater,
adult theater, massage establishment that offers adult service, or nude model
studios.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. The dismantling, storage, sale, crushing or dumping of
used motor vehicles, trailers or parts thereof.
   AVERAGE GROUND ELEVATION. The elevation of the mean finished ground surface
at the front wall of a structure.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade,
as defined in the International Building Codes. A walk-out BASEMENT shall be
counted as a one-half story.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A residence offering overnight lodging and
a morning meal. A BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT in a residential zone shall
be regulated as a home occupation.
   BOARD. The Board of Adjustment for the City of Hot Springs, South Dakota.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals are provided for three or more but
not exceeding 12 persons on a weekly or monthly basis.
   BUILDING. Any enclosed structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure
of persons, animals or chattel.
   BUILDING AREA OF A LOT. The portion of a lot bounded by the required rear
and side yards and front yard or the building setback line.
   BUILDING CODES. The International Building Code, International Residential
Code, International Existing Building Code, International Fire Code,
International Plumbing Code, International Mechanical Code and the
International Property Maintenance Code, as officially adopted by the city.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the average ground
elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the
highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs,
and to the mean height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The person under the direction of the Building Official
responsible for duties relating to the Building Department.
   BUILDING MAIN OR PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal
use of the lot on which it is situated. In a residential district any dwelling
shall be deemed to be a MAIN BUILDING on the lot on which it is situated.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The appointed official responsible for the administration
and enforcement of the city’s codes and ordinances regulating construction, use
or occupancy of buildings and structures, public or private.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line delineating the minimum allowable distance
between the street right-of-way and the front of a structure, within which no
building or other structure shall be placed except as provided in §
155.048. The BUILDING SETBACK LINE is parallel to or concentric with the street
right-of-way.
   BUILDING SITE. A single parcel of land under one ownership occupied or
intended to be occupied by a building or structure.
   BUILDING, SHOP. A heated structure designed and intended for storage or
occupied occasionally as a temporary work place that is provided with water and
sewer services. See SHOP BUILDING. Also see “DRY STORAGE BUILDING” and “COLD
STORAGE BUILDING.”
   BUSINESS SERVICES. Any activities conducted for gain which render service
primarily to other commercial and industrial enterprises, or which service and
repair appliances and machines used in a home or business.
   CANNABIS (OR MARIJUANA). All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of
marijuana absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber
produced from the mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the
seeds of such plant. The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L.
(hemp) and any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all
derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of
isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of not more than three-tenths of 1% on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, this
term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally authorized to
analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   CARPORT. A temporary or permanent unenclosed detached accessory structure,
without doors, used for the sheltered parking of vehicles. CARPORTS enclosed on
more than two sides shall be considered a garage.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. The document issued by the Building Official when
a new use is being established and the building has been inspected and found to
meet adopted codes and ordinances relating to construction and use. Such
CERTIFICATE authorizes occupancy of the building for its specified use.
   CLUB, PRIVATE. An organization catering exclusively to members and their
guest, or premises and buildings for recreational or athletic purposes which
are not conducted primarily for gain, providing that any vending stands,
merchandising or commercial activities are conducted only as required generally
for the membership of such club.
   COLD STORAGE BUILDING. An unheated storage building not designed for human
occupancy and that does not have water or sewer services to or inside the
building. See DRY STORAGE BUILDING.
   COMPOST. The product resulting from the controlled biological decomposition
of organic material that has been sanitized through the generation of heat and
‘processed to further reduce pathogens’ (PFRP), as defined by the U.S. EPA
(Code of Federal Regulations Title 40, Part 503, Appendix B, Section B), and
stabilized to the point that it is beneficial to plant growth.
   CONDOMINIUM. The owner owns the living space, but does not own the land or
the exterior of the structure. Condominiums can have properties attached to
either side and above and/or below, such as a high-rise condominium building. A
townhouse can be sold as a CONDOMINIUM, but a CONDOMINIUM cannot be sold as a
townhouse.
   CONTRACTOR, SMALL SCALE. A provider of construction services whose primary
operations of their specific trade or product takes place primarily indoors
such as plumber, electrician, cabinet/countertop maker, heating/cooling
supplier, window and door installers, for example. SMALL SCALE CONTRACTORS
store their raw materials, goods and supplies indoors with outdoor storage
being only what is required to park vehicles, outdoor installation materials
and specialized trade-related trucks, excluding semis, trailers and other types
of earthmoving equipment.
   COUNTRY CLUB. A chartered, non-profit membership club, with or without
dining facilities and cocktail lounge, catering primarily to its membership,
providing one or more of the following recreational and social amenities:
golfing, riding, outdoor recreation, club house, locker room, and/or pro shop.
   DAYCARE FACILITY. Daycare facilities, to include family child care homes,
group family child care homes, child care centers and before and after school
care centers, shall be defined and regulated in accordance with SDCL § 26-6-27.
   DESIGN CAPACITY or OCCUPANCY LOAD. The maximum number of persons which can
be accommodated at any one time with a reasonable degree of comfort, safety and
convenience.
   DISTRICT. Any section or sections of the municipality of the City of Hot
Springs for which the regulations governing the use of land and the use,
density, bulk, height and coverage of buildings and other structures are
uniform.
   DRIVE-IN, COMMERCIAL USES. Any retail commercial use providing considerable
off-street parking and catering primarily to vehicular trade such as drive-in
restaurants, drive-in theaters and similar uses.
   DRY STORAGE BUILDING. An unheated storage building not designed for human
occupancy and that does not have water or sewer services to or inside the
building. See COLD STORAGE BUILDING.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, exclusive of manufactured homes as
herein defined, used for residential purposes.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed to be occupied
exclusively by one family, to include modular manufactured homes that give the
appearance of a house, with a pitched roof, with horizontal lap or wood siding,
and when placed on a permanent frost-free perimeter foundation which meets all
building codes.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached building to be occupied by two families
living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or trailer courts or
camps, hotels or resort type hotels.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building designed for occupancy by three or more
families living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or trailer
courts or camps, hotels or resort type hotels.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms and a single kitchen designed as a unit for
occupancy by only one family for cooking, living and sleeping purposes.
   ELECTRICAL UTILITY SUBSTATION. An electrical utility facility containing
large capacity transformers fed by incoming high voltage transmission lines.
Within the facility, voltages are reduced and fed to several distribution
circuits that distribute electrical energy to areas with a predominate single
use (i.e., industrial, residential, commercial area).
   FAMILY.
      (1)   One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption or a
group not to exceed five persons (excluding servants) none of whom are related
by blood or marriage, occupying the premises and living as a single non-profit
housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding or lodging
house, hotel, club or similar dwelling for group use.
      (2)   The term FAMILY shall also include up to four foster children or
two foster adults, or any combination thereof not to exceed four persons, of a
legally licensed foster care provider. A greater number of foster children or
adults shall be considered a foster home.
   FEEDLOT, COMMERCIAL. A lot used for the concentrated feeding of livestock,
fowl or fur animals where such feeding is not done as an accessory use to the
production of crops on the premises of which the feedlot is a part.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross floor area for each of the several stories
under roof, measured from the exterior limits or faces of a building or
structure, to include finished and unfinished basements.
   FOOD PROCESSING. The preparation of food products for retail sale on the
premises.
   FRATERNITY OR SORORITY HOUSE. A building housing the members of a fraternity
or sorority group living together under a cooperative arrangement as distinct
from a boarding or lodging house or private club.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead-ended, then all the property abutting on one side between an
intersecting street and the dead-end of the street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An attached or detached non-habitable accessory structure
used primarily for the storage of personal motor vehicles and storage of
personal belongings.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage other than a private garage, available to the
public for rent or for lease, which is used for the storage of automobiles or
other motor vehicles.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair or equipping of motor vehicles.
   GASOLINE SERVICE OR FILLING STATION. Any area of land, including structures
thereon, that is used for the retail sale of gasoline, diesel, propane, butane
or other automobile fuels and accessories, and incidental services including
facilities for lubricating, hand washing and cleaning, or otherwise servicing
automobiles, but not including painting, major repair or automatic washing.
   GOVERNING BODY.
      (1)   The duly elected officials of a corporate political entity to whom
authority is given to make, adopt or amend zoning regulations; or
      (2)   City Council, when used in conjunction with the aldermanic form of
government.
   GRADE, ESTABLISHED. The elevation of the centerline of the streets as
officially established.
   GRADE, FINISHED. The completed surfaces of lawns, walks and roads brought to
grades as shown on official plans or designs relating thereto.
   GROUP CARE HOME/ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A residential facility established
for the purpose of providing, on a long term basis and for monetary
compensation, room and board for three or more individuals living as a single
household unit, who are unrelated by blood or marriage, and who by reason of
age, physical or mental disability may require personal assistance in achieving
personal independence. Such a facility may contain a separate and defined
living unit for a resident caretaker or manager.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. South Dakota Department of Health.
   HISTORICAL MONUMENTS AND/OR STRUCTURES. Any antique structure or building
existing contemporaneously with and commonly associated with an outstanding
event or period of history, and any structure or building in which the relics
and/or mementoes of such event or period are housed and preserved.
   HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   A gainful occupation conducted by members of the family only within
the dwelling or on the premises, which is clearly incidental and secondary to
the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character
thereof, provided that no display except a regulated sign will indicate from
the exterior that the building or land is being utilized in part for any
purpose other than that of a dwelling.
      (2)   Activities conducted entirely within the residence, such as
internet transactions or stock market transactions from a home office, which
does not account for any vehicle or pedestrian traffic pertaining to that
activity, and where there is no outward display of that activity, shall be
exempt from the requirements of §
155.073.
   HOTEL. A building occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of
individuals who are lodged with or without meals and in which there are more
than 12 sleeping rooms usually occupied singly with no provision made for
cooking in any individual room or apartment.
   HOTEL APARTMENT.  An apartment building under resident supervision which
maintains an inner lobby through which all tenants must pass to gain access to
the apartment and which may furnish for the exclusive use of its tenants by
previous arrangements and not to anyone who may apply, service ordinarily
furnished by such hotels.
   JUNKYARD OR SALVAGE YARD. A lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used
primarily for the collecting, storage and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal
or discarded material, or for the collecting, dismantling, storing and
salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of
parts thereof.
   KENNEL. Includes the term CATTERY.
      (1)   Any one lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises where more
than three dogs over the age of six months are kept shall be considered a
commercial kennel operation.
      (2)   Any one lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises where more
than three cats over the age of six months are kept shall be considered a
cattery operation.
      (3)   Commercial kennels and cattery operations are not allowed in
residential districts except for some restricted use in Mountain Residential
Districts.
   LIGHT MANUFACTURING. Manufacturing or assembly operations conducted entirely
within an enclosed structure and only by the property owner and their immediate
family as a family owned and operated small business which does not detract
from the neighborhood standard or adversely affect neighboring properties to
include excessive dust, noise or noxious vapors. LIGHT MANUFACTURING shall
include activities such as electrical/mechanical assembly operations, firearm
repair, leather working operations, light welding repair and fabrication,
jewelry manufacturing, wood working and cabinetry operations, knife and saw
sharpening operations and similar activities.
   LOADING SPACE. A space within the main building or on the same lot
therewith, providing for the standing, loading or unloading of a truck.
   LOT. A parcel of land which is or may be occupied by a single main building
and its accessory buildings or used customarily incidental thereto, together
with such yards or open spaces within the lot lines as may be required by this
chapter.
   LOT, AREA. The total horizontal area included within lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot of which at least two adjoining sides abut for their full
lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection of
two such sides is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, COVERAGE. The lot area covered by all buildings and structures, or
parts of buildings or structures, permanent or temporary, except as provided in
§
155.048.
   LOT, DEPTH. The average distance from the street line of the lot to its rear
line, measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which runs through a block from street to street
and which has two nonintersecting sides abutting on two or more streets.
   LOT, FRONTAGE. The dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, the line separating said
lot from the street. In the case of a corner or double frontage lot, the line
separating said lot from that street which is designated as the front street in
the request for building permit.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot boundary opposite and most distant from the front
lot line. In the case of a pointed or irregular lot, it shall be an imaginary
line parallel to and farthest from the front lot line, not less than ten feet
long and wholly within the lot.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. A side lot line is any lot boundary line not a front lot
line or a rear lot line.
   LOT, WIDTH. The width of a lot at the building setback line measured at
right angles to its depth.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  Sometimes referred to as a MOBILE HOME or TRAILER HOME.
A portable dwelling unit, designed and constructed to be towed on its own
chassis, comprised of frame and wheels and designed to be connected to
utilities for year-round occupancy. The term shall include:
      (1)   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed, extended or
retracted when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional
capacity.
      (2)   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit, capable of being separated again
for repeated towing.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home area which is
designed for and designated as the location for two automobiles and one mobile
home and not used for any other purposes whatsoever other than the customary
accessory use thereof.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. Any areas, tracts or sites or plots of land,
of not less than two acres, whereupon manufactured homes as herein defined are
placed, located or maintained, or intended to be placed, located or maintained.
   MANURE. Non-composted animal feces.
   MEDICAL FACILITIES. Those facilities, buildings, structures or uses related
to the medical field.
   MODULAR HOME.  A single finished dwelling unit, or a dwelling unit comprised
of two or more components designed to be permanently joined into a single unit,
which is designed to be placed on a permanent frost-free perimeter foundation,
with or without a basement. The specifications and completed unit shall comply
with the International Residential Code as adopted. Not a manufactured or
mobile home.
   MOTEL. See HOTEL.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure or use of land existing at the time
of enactment of this chapter and which does not conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is situated.
   NOXIOUS MATTER. Material (in gaseous, liquid, solid, particulate or any
other form) which is capable of causing injury to living organisms by chemical
reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the social, economic
or psychological well-being of individuals.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel rectification, bridge conduit, culvert,
building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure or anything that
is in, along, across or projecting into any channel, watercourse or regulatory
flood hazard area which may impede, retard or change the direction of the flow
of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such
water, or that is placed where the flow of water might carry the same
downstream to the damage of life or property.
   PARKING LOT. An off-street facility parking space along with adequate
provision for drives and aisles for maneuvering and giving access, and for
entrance and exit, all laid out in a way to be usable for the parking of more
than six automobiles.
   PARKING SPACE. An off-street space available for the parking of one motor
vehicle and having an area of not less than 200 square feet exclusive of
passageways and driveways appurtenant thereto and giving access thereto, and
having direct access to a street or alley.
   PENTHOUSE. An enclosed structure other than a roof structure located on a
roof, extending not more than 12 feet above the roof.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The City of Hot Springs Planning and Zoning
Commission, also herein referred to as COMMISSION or THE COMMISSION.
   PLAT. A map, plan or layout indicating the location and boundaries of
individual properties.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The specific primary purpose for which land or a building is
used.
   PROPERTY LINE. The legal property border line dividing private ownership
from other private ownership or public right-of-way.
   PUBLIC USES. Public parks, schools and administrative, cultural and service
buildings not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the storage
and maintenance of equipment and material.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or board
duly authorized to furnish and furnishing, under state or municipal regulations
to the public, electricity, gas, steam, communication, telegraph,
transportation, sewer system or water system.
   PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATIONS, SERVICE YARDS AND PUMPING STATIONS. Include
service yards used for the storage of utility supplies and for the servicing of
utility vehicles and equipment.
   QUARRY. A lot or land or part thereof used for the purpose of extracting
stone, sand, gravel or topsoil for sale, as an industrial operation, and
exclusive of the process of grading a lot preparatory to the construction of a
building for which application for a building permit has been made.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Country clubs, riding stables, golf courses and
other recreation areas and facilities, or recreation centers including private
swimming pools.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK AND CAMPGROUND. A plot of ground no less than
five acres, upon which camp sites can be located and occupied as temporary
living quarters in camping units, i.e. tents, cabins, self-propelled RVs, or RV
trailers.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. A flood which is representative or large floods known to
have occurred generally in the area and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur in a particular stream. The REGULATORY FLOOD generally has
a frequency of approximately 50 years determined from an analysis of floods on
a particular stream and other streams in the same general region.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATIONS. The elevations to which uses
regulated by this chapter are required to be elevated or flood proofed.
   REQUIRED SETBACK. A distance necessary to obtain the minimum front, side and
rear yards required by this chapter.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more, but not exceeding 12 persons. A building which has
accommodations for more than 12 persons shall be defined as a hotel under the
terms of this chapter.
   SANITARY SEWER. A municipal or community sewage disposal system of a type
approved by the State Department of Health.
   SELF-SERVICE LAUNDRY. A laundry providing home type washing, drying and
ironing machines to be used primarily by the customers on the premises. Also
referred to as a LAUNDROMAT.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE. An institution of learning that is not tax supported,
including colleges and universities.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC. A tax supported institution of learning, including colleges
and universities.
   SHOP BUILDING. A heated structure designed and intended for storage or
occupied occasionally as a temporary work place that is provided with water and
sewer services. See BUILDING, SHOP.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. Any writing, painting, display, emblem, drawing, sign or
other device designed, used or intended to be used for display or any type of
publicity for the purpose of making anything known or attracting attention to a
place, product, goods, services, idea or statement.
   SIGN, AGGREGATE AREA. The total square footage of all business and outdoor
advertising signs on any specific lot. The AREA of a sign shall be determined
by the smallest circle, triangle, trapezoid or rectangle that can be used to
enclose that which the advertisement is composed of, exclusive of the
supporting structure that bears no message.
   SIGN, ALTERATION. Any change of copy, sign face, color, size, shape,
illumination, location, construction or supporting structure of any sign.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. A sign that uses movement, lighting or special materials to
depict action or create a special effect to imitate movement.
   SIGN, AREA IDENTIFICATION. A sign to identify a common area containing a
group of structures, or a single structure on a minimum of five acres, such as
a residential subdivision, apartment complex, industrial park or shopping
center, located at the entrance or entrances of the area will be considered as
an on-premises business sign for the purpose of this chapter.
   SIGN, BANNER. A sign composed of lightweight material enclosed or unenclosed
in a rigid frame, secured or mounted so as to allow movement of the sign caused
by movement of the atmosphere.
   SIGN, BENCH. A sign which is affixed to a bench not to include memorial
dedications in park or recreational areas.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. An on-premises or off-premises sign which exceeds the sign
size and/or area regulations for the district in which it is intended to be
placed.
   SIGN, BUILDING MARKER. Any sign or stone indicating the name of a building
date or incidental information about its construction.
   SIGN, BUILDING/WALL.  Any sign attached to, or constructed against the wall
or painted on the surface of the wall of a building, with the exposed face of
the sign in a plane parallel with the plane of the wall.
   SIGN, BUSINESS/TENANT. A sign that is part of or attached to the portion of
a building frontage occupied by a single tenant space having a public entrance
within the building frontage. For businesses located on the interior of a
building without building frontage, the building elevation providing customer
access shall be considered the BUSINESS FRONTAGE.
   SIGN, CANOPY. A sign that is a part of or attached to any awning, canopy or
other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a door, entrance
window or outdoor service area.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION/DEVELOPMENT. On a lot, signs not more than 12 square feet
in area, stating the names of contractors, engineers or architects, but only
during the time that construction or development is actively underway.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. Used to give directions to or location of a specific
place. Messages on a DIRECTIONAL SIGN shall be limited to the proper name of
the site and the mileage or distance, route numbers and exit numbers.
   SIGN, DOUBLE-FACED. A sign constructed to display its message on the outer
surfaces of two identical and opposite planes at an angle of 45 degrees or
less.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC READER BOARD. A sign or portion thereof which can be
electronically changed or rearranged without altering the face or the surface
of the sign. A sign on which the only copy that changes is an electronic or
mechanical indication of time or temperature shall be considered a “time and
temperature” portion of a sign and not a commercial message or an electronic
reader board sign for purposes of this chapter.
   SIGN, EXPOSED NEON. Signage such that the neon tubing is visible to the eye.
This shall not include neon signs located within building windows, or behind
opaque sign faces.
   SIGN, FLASHING. An illuminated sign on which artificial light is not
maintained stationary and/or constant in intensity and color.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING OR POLE. A sign which is supported by one or more
uprights, poles or braces in or upon the ground.
   SIGN, FUTURE TENANT. An on-premises temporary sign that identifies the names
of future businesses.
   SIGN, GARAGE/YARD SALE. A private sale of personal property used to dispose
of personal household possessions; not for the use of any commercial venture.
   SIGN, GOVERNMENTAL.  A sign erected by a government agency or its designee,
setting forth information pursuant to law and/or ordinance.
   SIGN, GRAND OPENING. A one-time promotional activity not exceeding 30
calendar days used by newly established businesses location within two months
after occupancy to inform the public of their location and service available to
the community.
   SIGN, GROUND. A sign where the bottom coping is less than 24 inches from the
grade below.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign where artificial light projects from within or
onto the sign copy. INTERIOR ILLUMINATION shall mean signs where the artificial
light source is located within the sign and is not viewable from the exterior
of the sign. EXTERIOR ILLUMINATION is a light source that is visible exterior
to the sign.
   SIGN, INFLATABLE. An object bearing advertisement that is inflated with air
or gas.
   SIGN, MAINTENANCE. The repair or replacement in kind of individual sign
components including paper, fabric or plastic copy panels, electrical wiring
and bulbs, or paint, stucco or other exterior finishes.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. A projecting sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part
of a marquee. A MARQUEE SIGN must maintain a minimum vertical clearance of nine
feet.
   SIGN, MONUMENT.  A freestanding sign that does not have exposed pole or
pylon, and is attached to a single columnar base for at least 75% of the entire
width of the sign.
   SIGN, MULTI-FACED. A two-sided sign which is the same on both sides. The
single structural component is counted as one sign.
   SIGN, NON-CONFORMING. A sign lawfully erected and maintained prior to the
adopting of this chapter that does not conform with the requirements of this
chapter.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign, including the supporting sign structure, which
is visible from the street or highway and advertises goods or services not
located on the premises and/or property upon which the sign is located; also
called a BILLBOARD. The following shall not be considered an OFF-PREMISES SIGN
for the purposes of this chapter:
      (1)   Direction or official signs authorized by law or ordinance;
      (2)   Real estate signs; and
      (3)   On-premises signs.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign that advertises goods or services available at the
site and on the lawful premises of the billboard or advertising sign.
   SIGN, PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or
not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in a series, designed to move in the wind.
   SIGN, POLE. A freestanding sign which is erected upon one or more posts
directly in or upon the ground and not attached to, braced by, any other
structure.
   SIGN, POLITICAL. A sign designed for the purpose of advertising support of
or opposition to a candidate or proposition for a public election.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign designed to be movable from one place to another,
which is not affixed to the ground or structure; also called a “mobile sign.”
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign which is affixed to a wall of a building and
extends outward from the building wall with a minimum vertical clearance on
nine feet.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign offering property (land and/or buildings) for
sale, lease or rent (16 square feet or less).
   SIGN, REPAIR. The replacement of metal or wood cabinets, structural faces,
supporting structural members, primary uprights, posts and poles, or the sign
in its entirety.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected or attached in whole or in part upon the roof of
a building.
   SIGN, STRUCTURE. Any structure which supports, has supported, or is capable
of supporting multiple signs.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Signs, not greater than 32 square feet in area, that are
temporary in nature, used in conjunction with a specific event, that is placed,
moved or erected in such a manner so that it may be easily removed from the
property and is not permanently affixed. TEMPORARY SIGNS must be placed, built,
erected or moved on to site location in such a manner as to be easily removed.
TEMPORARY SIGNS are only allowed ten days prior to any lawful event and must be
removed from premises within two business days of conclusion of the event.
TEMPORARY SIGNS placed longer than 14 days must meet the requirements of a
permanent sign.
   SIGN, TIME AND TEMPERATURE. A sign or portion of a sign displaying only
current time and temperature in an electronic, digital fashion.
   SIGN, TRAILER OR SEMI-TRAILER.
      (1)   A trailer or semi-trailer unit that is not currently commercially
licensed and operable shall be considered an off-premises sign.
      (2)   A trailer or semi-trailer unit that is currently commercially
licensed and operable shall be considered a temporary sign.
   SIGN, VEHICLE. A sign placed, painted, attached or displayed on a vehicle
advertising a company, store or service.
   SIGN, WINDOW. A sign, picture, symbol or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale or
service that is placed inside a window or upon the window.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
it.
   STORY, HALF. A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of
which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than two feet above
the floor of such story.
   STREET or LANE. A public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal
means of access to abutting property.
   STREET GRADE. The officially established grade of the street upon which a
lot fronts or in its absence the established grade of other street upon which
the lot abuts, at the midpoint of the frontage of the lot thereon. If there is
an officially established grade, the existing grade of the street at such
midpoint shall be taken as the STREET GRADE.
   STREET, INTERSECTING. Any street which joins another street at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other.
   STREET LINE. The legal line between street right-of-way and abutting
property.
   STRUCTURE. Structure means a combination of materials to form a construction
that is safe and stable and includes among other things stadiums, platforms,
radio and television towers, sheds, storage bins, fences and display signs.
   THEATER, MOVING PICTURE. A building or part of a building devoted to the
showing of moving pictures on a paid admission basis.
   THEATER, OUTDOOR DRIVE-IN. An open lot or part thereof, with its appurtenant
facilities, devoted primarily to the showing of moving pictures or theatrical
productions, on a paid admission basis, to patrons seated in automobiles or on
outdoor seats.
   TOWNHOUSE. One of a group of two or more attached single-family dwelling
units built on one or more common lot lines. Each TOWNHOUSE shall be located on
an individually platted lot. The owner owns the living space, the land upon
which the TOWNHOUSE sits, the immediate air space above it, and the open space
provided for it. Though it may have properties attached to either side, it will
not have properties attached above or below it. A TOWNHOUSE can be sold as a
condominium, but a condominium cannot be sold as a townhouse.
   TRAILER, HAULING. A vehicle which is designed for hauling animals, produce,
goods or commodities, including boats and other recreational devices.
   TRAILER, TRAVEL OR CAMPING.  A portable or mobile living unit used for
temporary human occupancy away from the place of residence of the occupants.
Also known as a CAMPER or RV.
   TRAVEL OR RV PARK. A plot of ground primarily for use as parking and camping
facilities by persons with campers or RVs.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land or a building is designed,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. The
term “permitted use” or its equivalent shall not be deemed to include any
nonconforming use.
   UTILITIES. Municipal and franchised utilities, and any other utility
approved by the city.
   WALKWAY.  A path or area for pedestrians.
   WAY. A street or alley or other thoroughfare or easement permanently
established for passage of persons or vehicles.
   YARD. An open space between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward except where otherwise specifically provided in this chapter that
building or structure may be located in a portion of a yard required for a main
building. In measuring a YARD for the purposes of determining the width of the
side yard, the shortest horizontal front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the
shortest horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall
be used.
   YARD, FRONT. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street line and
the front line of the building projected to the side line of the lot. The depth
of the FRONT YARD shall be measured between the front line of the building and
the street line.
   YARD, REAR. A place on the same lot with the principal building, between the
rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot and extending the full
width of the lot, which is unoccupied except for permitted accessory
structures.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building,
situated between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from
the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line not a rear line or a front line
shall be deemed a side line.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The official designated by the City Council to
administer the city’s zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-02) (Ord. 1157, passed 10- -2015; Ord. 1232, passed 7-6-
2021; Ord. 1235, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 155.003 ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP.
   (A)   Establishment of zoning districts.
      (1)   For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals,
convenience and the general welfare of the community of the city, it is hereby
divided into districts of 14 different types, each being such number, shape,
kind and area, and such common unity of purpose, and adaptability of use, that
are deemed most suitable to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   Type of Districts:
         (a)   RA - Residential A (§
155.020);
         (b)   RB - Residential B (§
155.021);
         (c)   MR - Mountain Residential (§
155.022);
         (d)   GC - General Commercial (§
155.023);
         (e)   MXD-I - Mixed Use District-I (§
155.024);
         (f)   HS - Highway Service (§
155.025);
         (g)   GI - General Industrial (§
155.026);
         (h)   GD - Greenway District (§
155.027);
         (i)   NU - No Use District (§
155.028);
         (j)   MGC - Golf Course (§
155.029);
         (k)   GCRA - Golf Course Residential A (§
155.030);
         (l)   GCC - Golf Course Commercial (§
155.031);
         (m)   PUD - Planned Unit Development (§
155.032); and
         (n)   AZ - Airport Zone (§ 155.033).
   (B)   Zoning map. The location and boundaries of the zoning districts
established by this chapter are denoted and defined as shown in the map
entitled “Zoning Map of the City of Hot Springs, South Dakota-dated 2015,” and
certified by the Zoning Administrator. The said map together with everything
shown thereon with all amendments adopted thereto, is hereby incorporated into
this chapter as fully set forth and described herein. The zoning map shall be
kept and maintained by the Building Official and shall be available for
inspection and examination by members of the public at all reasonable times as
any other public record.
   (C)   Scope of regulations. The regulations applying to each district
include specific limitation on the use of land and structures, height and bulk
of structures, density of population, lot area, yard dimension and area of lot
that can be covered by structures.
   (D)   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries. Where uncertainty
exists with respect to the precise location of any of the aforesaid districts
shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following streets,
highways or alleys shall be construed to follow the centerlines of such
streets, highways or alley.
      (2)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following platted
lot lines or other property lines, such lines shall be construed to be said
boundary lines.
      (3)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following railroad
lines shall be construed to lie midway between the main tracks of such railroad
lines.
      (4)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following the
centerline of streams, rivers or other continuously flowing watercourses shall
be construed as following the channel centerline of such watercourses and the
said boundaries shall be deemed to be at the limit of the jurisdiction of the
city unless otherwise indicated.
      (5)   Boundaries shown as following or closely following the limits of
political jurisdictions shall be construed as following such limits.
      (6)   Where the application of the aforesaid rules leaves a reasonable
doubt as to the boundaries between two districts, the regulations of the more
restrictive districts shall govern the entire parcel in question, unless
otherwise determined by the governing body.
      (7)   Whenever any street, alley or other public easement is vacated, the
district classification of the property to which the vacated portions of land
accrue shall become the classification of the vacated land.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-03) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1033, passed 4- -2008;
Ord. 1210, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 155.004 USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   In order to accomplish the general purpose of this chapter, it is necessary
to give special consideration to certain uses because they are unique in
nature, require large land areas and or are potentially incompatible with
existing development. These uses may be considered by the governing body
through the procedure provided in §
155.073. Other uses permitted on review:
   (A)   Cemetery.
      (1)   The site proposed for a cemetery shall not interfere with the
development of a system of collector and larger streets in the vicinity of such
site. In addition, such site shall have direct access to a thoroughfare.
      (2)   Any new cemetery shall be located on a site containing not less
than 20 acres.
      (3)   All other structures including but not limited to mausoleum
permanent monument or maintenance building, shall be set back not less than 25
feet from any property line or street right-of-way line.
      (4)   All graves or burial lots shall be set back not less than 25 feet
from: any property line or street right-of-way line.
      (5)   All required yards shall be landscaped and maintained.
   (B)   Drive-in theater.
      (1)   The site must have direct access to a major public road.
      (2)   In addition to the required setbacks from streets and highways, all
yards shall be planted and maintained as a landscaped strip.
      (3)   The theater screen shall not be visible from any public street
within 1,500 feet. In addition, cars parked in the viewing area shall be
screened on all sides by a wall, fence or densely planted evergreen hedge not
less than six feet in height.
      (4)   Loading space for patrons waiting admission to the theater shall be
equal to 20% of the capacity, be separated, and internal circulation shall be
laid out to provide one-way traffic.
      (5)   Sale of refreshments shall be limited to patrons of the theater.
      (6)   No central loudspeakers shall be permitted.
      (7)   All parking areas and access ways shall be adequately lighted,
provided however, that such lighting shall be shielded to prevent any glare or
reflection onto a public street or onto neighboring properties.
      (8)   Amusement parks or kiddielands shall be limited to patrons of the
theater.
      (9)   The connecting driveways shall be surfaced with permanent paving,
maintained in good condition and free of all weeds, dust, trash and other
debris.
   (C)   Public and private utilities and services. Where permitted, public and
private utilities and services shall be subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Health Department report. Application for permission to operate
water works and/or sewage treatment plants shall be accompanied by a report and
a recommendation from the State Department of Health. Such recommendations as
to design and construction, type of treatment, source of water, standards for
testing and sampling, and standards for the quality of effluent shall be
incorporated into and made a part of the application.
      (2)   Lot area and location. The required lot area and location shall be
specified as part of the application and shall be determined in relation to the
proposed use, the intensity of such use and the effects of such use upon the
environment.
      (3)   Fencing and/or screening. Where findings indicate that a hazard may
result or that interference with the development or use and enjoyment of
surrounding residential properties may ensue, fencing or screening with an
evergreen hedge or other shielding material may be required in a manner
consistent with such findings.
      (4)   Public utilities service yards. Shall be screened by a seven-foot
obscuring fence, wall or mass planting or otherwise so located as not to be
obnoxious to the orderly appearance of the district.
   (D)   Day care facilities. The facilities, operation and maintenance shall
meet the requirements of SDCL Chapter 26-6 regulating day care facilities and
local zoning regulations. In addition, operators desiring to open a day care
facility shall abide by the following:
      (1)   Definitions for use in this chapter and any corresponding documents
and/or forms related to this chapter.
         CHILD. Person under the age of 18.
         CHILDREN. More than one child.
         DAY CARE FACILITY.  A place, which may or may not be a home, in which
one or more children not related to the care provider, are cared for on a
regular basis, at least once a week, for compensation, whether paid directly or
indirectly.
         LARGE DAY CARE FACILITIES. Day care facilities caring for more than 12
children at any given time shall be licensed under SDCL Chapter 26-6 as a day
care center or as a group family day care home.
            1.   Submit a use permit on review along with a day care supplement
for initial Council consideration and scheduling of the required public hearing
as described in §
155.073.
            2.   Be licensed annually. Each day care operator shall submit a
fully and properly completed Use Permit on Review - Day Care Supplement by
October 10 of each calendar year for the coming year along with an annual
renewal fee as stated in the Fee Schedule. No unregistered family day care
homes (up to 12 children in care) as defined by the South Dakota Department of
Social Services shall be allowed within the City.
            3.   Existing day care facilities shall submit documents and fees
per division 3. below in PASSED A BACKGROUND CHECK.
            4.   It is the responsibility of the Development Coordinator to
coordinate/complete the annual review of the Day Care Supplement and recommend
renewal or revocation of the permit.
            5.   The city shall have the right to enter the day care facility
in order to conduct a random or complaint based inspection, based on a written
complaint.
            6.   Suspension or revocation of registration. The Development
Coordinator has authority to suspend or revoke a registration for good cause.
"Good cause" may include, but is not limited to:
               a.   Circumstances or events, including exigent circumstances or
events, or for the purpose of conducting an investigation involving a
provider's action, inaction or failure to comply with any terms of this
ordinance, state statute, or state rule when reasonably corroborated and
objectively considered to pose an imminent risk of harm to the health, safety
or rights of a child in care;
               b.   A registrant, a provider employed by the registrant, or a
person present on the premises on a regular basis is required to register as a
sex offender under SDCL Chapter 22-24B;
               c.   A registrant, a provider or a person present on the
premises on a regular basis employed by the registrant has been added to the
central registry for child abuse established by SDCL § 26-8A-10;
               d.   A registrant, a provider or a person present on the
premises on a regular basis is a person described in the first sentence of SDCL
§ 26-6-14.11 or otherwise ineligible under state or federal law to be a
registrant or provider;
               e.   The applicant omitted material information upon their
application for registration;
               f.   The information on the application for registration under
this chapter contains a material misstatement of facts;
               g.   Any failure to comply with the requirements of this
chapter;
               h.   Any substantiated allegation of mistreatment, neglect or
improper supervision;
               i.   Failure to cooperate with any city personnel or their agent
in investigating a complaint regarding the family day care home or a provider,
including an impromptu site visit;
               j.   The State Department of Social Services/ child care
services has denied, suspended, revoked or refused to renew registration under
SDCL Ch. 26-6; or any other substandard condition that the Department of Social
Services has determined constitutes a threat to the health, safety or well-
being of a child or the children cared for in the family day care home, of
which the Department of Social Services has been notified and the department
has had an opportunity to thereafter notify the registrant, and the condition
has not been remedied within the time specified by the health department.
         PASSED A BACKGROUND CHECK.  
            1.   The central registry for child abuse established by SDCL § 26-
8A-10 has been checked and it does not indicate that the person was responsible
for any proven instance of child abuse or neglect.
            2.   The person is not required to register as a sex offender under
SDCL Chapter 22-24B.
            3.   A criminal background check has been performed, the results of
which do not indicate that the person has been convicted of child abuse
pursuant to SDCL Chapter 26-10 or a similar law of any other state or of the
United States, at any time, or that the person has been convicted of any felony
within the previous five years. For renewal registrations, a criminal
background check that is less than three years old is sufficient.
         RELATED. Any of the following relationships by marriage, blood or
adoption between the provider and the children in care: parent, grandparent,
great-grandparent, brother, sister, stepparent, stepbrother or stepsister.
      (2)   If the Development Coordinator finds good cause to suspend or
revoke a day care registration, the director may take immediate action to
suspend or revoke the provider's registration, A registration suspension shall
be temporary in nature and the terms of any suspension shall be specified at
the time of issuance; however, if no other time period is specified for a
registration suspension, the suspension shall be deemed in effect for the
initial maximum time period of 90 days.
      (3)   The suspension period may be reviewed and increased by up to 90-day
increments if there is a valid reason for the extension. Circumstances that
shall constitute a valid reason for the extension include, but are not limited
to, circumstances where either a police or child protection services
investigation or action has not been determined or concluded, or where a
finding against the provider at the state level has been appealed. However, a
total period of suspension shall not exceed one year under any circumstances.
The provider shall be informed of any temporary suspension or extension(s) of
the suspension period. When a citation or notice of violation is issued, it
must be displayed on the door or doors used by parents bringing their children
into the day care for at least 30 days after the issuance of the citation or
notice of violation. A provider shall have the right to appeal any suspension,
extension of a suspension or revocation to the City Council.
   (E)   Automobile wrecking and junk yards.
      (1)   No such operation shall be permitted closer than 300 feet from any
established residential district.
      (2)   All outdoor storage of salvage and wrecking operations shall be
conducted entirely within an enclosed opaque fence or wall excepting driveway
areas, having a minimum height of eight feet. Storage between the street and
such fence is expressly prohibited. Any fence or wall erected for screening
purposes shall be within the buildable area of the lot and shall be properly
painted or otherwise maintained in good condition.
      (3)   Off-street parking: as regulated in §
155.049.
      (4)   The number of vehicular access driveways permitted on any single
street frontage should be limited to:
         (a)   One driveway where the parcel to be used has a maximum street
frontage of 100 feet or less;
         (b)   Two driveways where the street frontage exceeds 100 feet; and
         (c)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be limited to 25
feet in width, exclusive of curb returns.
   (F)   Recreational fads. An application for a permit for recreational fads
including trampoline centers, cart tracks, roller rinks, amusement parks and
similar recreational activities not specifically covered by these regulations,
shall be reviewed by the governing body as regulated in §
155.073.
   (G)   Recreational Vehicle (RV) parks.
      (1)   RV parks may be allowed with approval of the City Council as
provided in §
155.073.
      (2)   RV parks will be inspected and licensed annually and a fee will be
charged.
      (3)   An application for an RV park use permit shall be made as follows:
application for a permit shall be made on a form provided by the city and
submitted to the Zoning Administrator. Each application shall be accompanied by
three copies of the plan drawn to scale. The application for a permit shall be
accompanied by a minimum fee of in an amount as set by the City Council from
time to time. The following information shall be shown on the application:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Location and legal description of the proposed RV park;
         (c)   Plans and specifications of all buildings, improvements,
facilities and spaces constructed or to be constructed within the RV park;
         (d)   Proposed use of buildings and spaces shown on the site;
         (e)   The location and size of all recreational vehicle spaces;
         (f)   Location of all points of entry and exit for motor vehicles and
internal circulation pattern;
         (g)   The location of all screening and landscaping to be provided;
         (h)   The location of all outdoor lighting to be provided;
         (i)   Location of all walls and fences indicating height and materials
of construction;
         (j)   Location of sewage dump station(s) and garbage receptacles;
         (k)   Preliminary approval of planned outdoor fireplace settings; and
         (l)   Such other architectural and engineering data as may be required
to permit the city to determine if the provisions of this subchapter are being
complied with.
      (4)   Such permit may be issued prior to construction or completion
thereof provided that a time schedule for development shall be prepared, which
shall demonstrate the applicant’s readiness and ability to provide the proposed
services and all required improvements and facilities shall be installed within
one year. Use permit will be subject to all remedies provided by §
155.073.
   (H)   Manufactured home subdivisions. The following development standards
shall apply for all new manufactured home subdivisions, which shall be approved
as a development permitted on review.
      (1)   Minimum area of manufactured home subdivision. Manufactured home
subdivisions shall comply with manufactured home subdivision standards. No
subdivision shall be allowed to open on less than two acres. Exception:
existing mobile home parks shall be subject to the regulations in place prior
to the adoption of this chapter and shall fall under §
155.005.
      (2)   Only manufactured homes shall be permitted, except for additions
and accessory structures which may be constructed on-site.
      (3)   Minimum lot size: 6,000 square feet, exclusive of public street
rights-of-way and private street easements.
      (4)   Street standards.
         (a)   Public streets shall meet minimum standards of the subdivision
ordinance or, in the case of private streets, standards established by the City
Council in the approval process.
         (b)   Cul-de-sac roads shall have a maximum length of 300 feet and a
minimum turnaround of 40-foot radius.
         (c)   Be accessible at all times to fire department, ambulance,
police, sanitation and utility vehicles.
      (5)   Street lighting. The developer shall furnish and install street
lights in accordance with city requirements. On private streets, lights shall
be operated and maintained by the developer.
      (6)   Fencing and screening: as required in §
155.045.
      (7)   Shade trees: the developer shall plant shade trees on the property.
A minimum of one tree with a minimum trunk diameter of not less than one inch
shall be planted on each manufactured home lot.
      (8)   Drainage and storm sewers, per
Chapter 152.
      (9)   Water/sewer facilities, per
Chapter 51.
      (10)   Utilities, per state and local requirements.
      (11)   Recreation areas. A park and recreation area shall be provided
having a minimum of 150 square feet for each manufactured home site,
consolidated into usable space.
      (12)   Storage sheds. Total square footage not to exceed 192 square feet,
exclusive of attached or detached garages or carports.
      (13)   Lot width. Minimum 50 feet at the front building line. May be
average of 50 feet if the lot abuts a street for a minimum of 30 feet.
      (14)   Perimeter setbacks.
         (a)   Twenty-five-foot perimeter setback from all public rights-of-
way.
         (b)   Any perimeter yard abutting a residential district shall
maintain a ten-foot setback.
         (c)   All perimeter setbacks shall be maintained and landscaped.
      (15)   Required setbacks from lot and property lines.
         (a)   Twenty-five feet from all road rights-of-way within the
manufactured home subdivision.
         (b)   Rear yard. Twenty-five feet.
         (c)   Side yard. Ten feet.
         (d)   Accessory structures. Eight feet, side and rear
      (16)   As regulated in §
155.049.
      (17)   Storage space. The manufactured home subdivision shall provide a
paved storage area for boats, campers, RVs and the like, for use only by
tenants. The number of spaces within this area shall be equal to one space for
every five manufactured homes sites. Each space shall be ten feet by 25 feet.
      (18)   Securing and skirting. All manufactured homes and accessory
structures shall be securely anchored to the ground, at intervals approved by
the Building Official. Manufactured homes, once in their permanent location
upon the lot, shall be fully skirted within 45 days.
      (19)   Garages, carports and additions to manufactured homes.
         (a)   Building permits shall be required for all garages, carports and
additions, which shall meet all setback requirements.
         (b)   No additions or structures erected shall have a height greater
than the height of the manufactured home to which it is attached; and shall be
supported by a foundation approved by the Building Official.
      (20)   Signs.
         (a)   The developer shall install, in accordance with standards of the
city, all road and street name signs.
         (b)   Each manufactured home park shall be permitted to display, on
each frontage, one identifying sign of maximum size of 25 square feet.
      (21)   A bond or other guarantee may be required by the City Council to
assure completion of all requirements within this section.
      (22)   General provisions.
         (a)   Sidewalks from the paved driveway to the main entry of the
manufactured home shall be a minimum of 36 inches in width.
         (b)   Each manufactured home shall have an address of three-inch high
letters mounted on the side fronting the street.
         (c)   Each manufactured home space shall be clearly defined by
permanent markers.
         (d)   Each manufactured home space shall be serviced by the public
water and sewer system and shall be individually metered. Manufactured homes
that cannot be connected to the public water and sewer system shall not be
permitted.
         (e)   Manufactured homes shall not be used for commercial, industrial
or other non-residential uses, except home occupations as defined in §
155.053, and permitted as a use permitted on review per §
155.073.
      (23)   Subdivision application requirements. The application shall be
accompanied by three copies of the plot plan drawn to scale, and prepared by a
licensed engineer or architect. The following information shall be shown:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The location and legal description of the proposed manufactured
home subdivision;
         (c)   Plans and specifications of all buildings, improvements and
facilities constructed or to be constructed within the manufactured home
subdivision;
         (d)   The proposed use of buildings shown on the site;
         (e)   The location and size of all manufactured home spaces;
         (f)   The location of all points of ingress and egress and internal
traffic circulation pattern;
         (g)   A landscaping plan;
         (h)   The location of all lighting standards to be provided;
         (i)   The location of all walls and fences, the indication of their
height, and the materials of their construction;
         (j)   Such other architectural and engineering data as may be required
to permit the Zoning Administrator and the City Council to determine if the
provisions of this chapter are being complied with; and
         (k)   An estimated timetable for project development.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-05) (Ord. 1156, passed 10- -2015; Ord. 1229, passed 4-6-
2021; Ord. 1232, passed 7-6-2021)
§ 155.005 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES OF LAND.
   Any otherwise lawful use of land or structure existing at the time of
adoption of these regulations may be continued, maintained and repaired, except
as otherwise provided in this section.
   (A)   Continuance of nonconforming uses. The lawful operation of a
nonconforming use as such use existed on the effective date of this chapter, or
any amendment hereto, by which the use became a nonconforming use, may be
continued; provided however, that the number of dwelling units in a
nonconforming dwelling use shall not be increased over or exceed the number of
dwelling units in the nonconforming use on the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Extension of nonconforming uses in structures. A nonconforming use in
a structure may be extended throughout the structure provided no structural
alterations, except those required by law or ordinances, are made therein.
   (C)   Changes in nonconforming uses. Where a nonconforming use exists, it
cannot change to another nonconforming use of different quality and
characteristics unless the use is more compatible with the characteristics of
the neighborhood in which it is located. Where a nonconforming use has changed
to a more compatible use, it shall not be changed back to a less compatible
use.
   (D)   Termination of nonconforming uses. A nonconforming use that has been
abandoned or discontinued for a year shall not hereafter be re-established.
   (E)   Open land nonconforming use. A nonconforming use not enclosed in a
building or structure, or one in which the use of the land is a use exercised
principally out-of-doors and outside of a building or structure shall, after 24
months from the date of notification, become a prohibited and unlawful use and
shall be discontinued.
   (F)   Destruction, damage or obsolescence of structure. The right to operate
and maintain any nonconforming use shall terminate whenever the structure, or
structures, in which the nonconforming use is operated and maintained, are
damaged, destroyed or become obsolete or substandard beyond the limits
hereinafter established for the termination of nonconforming structures.
   (G)   Continuance of nonconforming structures. Except as hereinafter
provided, any nonconforming structure may be occupied and operated and
maintained in a state of good repair.
   (H)   Enlargement or extension of nonconforming structures. A nonconforming
structure in which a nonconforming use is operated shall not be enlarged or
extended; a nonconforming structure in which only permitted uses are operated
may be enlarged or extended if the enlargement or extension can be made in
compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter established for
structures in the district in which the nonconforming structure is located.
   (I)   Restoration of damaged nonconforming structures. A nonconforming
structure damaged in any manner and from any cause whatsoever to the extent of
not more than 60% of its replacement cost may be restored, provided restoration
is completed within one year of the date of the damage.
   (J)   Outdoor advertising signs and structures. No outdoor advertising sign
or outdoor advertising structure which, after the adoption of this chapter,
exists as a nonconforming use in any district, shall continue, as herein
provided for nonconforming uses, but every such sign or structure shall be
removed or changed to conform to the regulation of said district within a
period of two years following official notification of the nonconforming use
exists.
   (K)   Nonconforming mobile home use. Any nonconforming mobile home use in a
residential district shall terminate when the mobile home is removed from the
real property or a majority of the mobile home has been destroyed so it is no
longer habitable.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-07) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1047, passed 4- -2007)
§ 155.006 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses and structures not specifically listed as a permitted use, special
permitted use, or as a conditional use in a particular zoning district shall be
prohibited in said district.
(Ord. 1235, passed 10-4-2021)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.020 RESIDENTIAL A DISTRICT (RA).
   (A)   General description. This district is to provide for medium
residential development density. The principal uses of land range from
residences to uses which are functionally compatible with residential uses.
Recreational, religious, educational facilities and other related uses in
keeping with the residential character of the district may be permitted on
review by the governing body.
   (B)   Permitted principal and accessory uses and structures. Property and
buildings in the Residential A (RA) area shall be used only for the following
purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings but not including manufactured homes;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Rooming and boarding houses;
      (4)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be immediately adjacent to said construction work and which
buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction
work;
      (5)   Transportation and utility easements, alleys and rights-of-way;
      (6)   (a)   Accessory uses and buildings in accordance with §
155.046:
            1.   Provided such uses are incidental to the principal use and do
not include any activity commonly conducted as a business;
            2.   Any accessory building shall be located on the same lot, tract
or parcel with the same Parcel Identification Number as with the principal
building.
         (b)   Exception: a variance may be granted for an accessory structure
to be placed or constructed prior to the construction of the principal
structure whereupon the Board of Adjustment finds that:
            1.   The site plan submitted with the building permit application
clearly indicates the planned accessory structure and the remaining buildable
area for the future primary structure;
            2.   All other provisions of zoning ordinance for that district are
met; and
            3.   Accessory structures with habitable space meet the
requirements of the adopted or referenced electrical, plumbing and building
codes.
      (7)   Signs, as regulated in §
155.051; and
      (8)   Temporary placement of tents, campers, RVs and travel trailers
where the occupants are away from their place of legal residence for the
purpose of vacationing or visiting for a length of time not to exceed three
weeks in any 90-day period.
   (C)   Uses permitted on review. The following may be permitted on review by
the governing body in accordance with provisions contained in §
155.073.
      (1)   Multiple-family dwellings and group homes or transitional housing.
      (2)   Churches or similar places of worship, and accessory structures
thereto. Accessory structures shall not include missions or revival tents.
      (3)   Elementary or high schools, public or private.
      (4)   Public parks, playgrounds and playfields, greenways and
neighborhood and municipal buildings and uses in keeping with the character and
requirements of the district.
      (5)   Libraries, museums and historical monuments or structures.
      (6)   Public utilities, substations and pumping stations, subject §
155.004(A)(3).
      (7)   Plant nurseries.
      (8)   Golf courses, or country clubs, with adjoining grounds of not less
than 60 acres, but not including miniature courses and driving tees operated
for commercial purposes.
      (9)   Fraternities, sororities and denominational student headquarters.
      (10)   Nursing homes or homes for the aged.
      (11)   Medical facilities, except veterinary hospitals or clinics, or
other professional offices.
      (12)   Home occupations as regulated in §
155.053.
      (13)   Daycare facilities, as regulated in §
155.004(A)(4).
      (14)   Mobile home subdivisions as regulated in §
155.004(A)(8).
      (15)   Foster homes.
      (16)   Mortuaries and funeral homes.
      (17)   Boys and girls clubs, neighborhood/community recreational centers
and heritage centers.
      (18)   Other uses similar in character to those enumerated above and
which in the opinion of the governing body will not be injurious to the
district.
   (D)   Area regulations. All buildings shall have proper setbacks from their
respective property lines in compliance with the following regulations.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   For single-family, two-family and multiple-family dwellings the
minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet and in no case shall an
accessory building be located to extend into the front yard.
         (b)   Churches and other main and accessory buildings, other than
dwellings, shall have a front setback of 35 feet.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   For single story dwellings, located on interior lots, side yards
shall be not less than ten feet in width. For dwellings of more than one story,
there shall be side yards of not less than 12 feet.
         (b)   For unattached buildings of accessory, non-occupied use, there
shall be a side yard of not less than eight feet.
         (c)   Unattached accessory buildings with habitable space shall not be
located closer to any side lot line than ten feet and additional off-street
parking shall be provided accordingly.
      (3)   Rear yard.
         (a)   For primary use structures and attached accessory use
structures, there shall be a rear yard of not less than 25 feet.
         (b)   Unattached buildings of accessory, non-occupied use shall not be
located closer to any rear lot line than five feet.
         (c)   Unattached accessory buildings with habitable space shall not be
located closer to any rear lot line than ten feet and additional off-street
parking shall be provided accordingly.
         (d)   The setback requirements provided in divisions (D)(3)(a) and (D)
(3)(b) herein for rear yards shall not apply to any properties located in the
Cold Springs Addition to the city in which the property abuts the flood control
channel located in Cold Springs Addition.
      (4)   Lot width.
         (a)   For single-family dwellings, there shall be a minimum lot width
of 50 feet at the front building line. May be average of 50 feet if the lot
abuts a street for a minimum of 30 feet.
         (b)   For two-family dwellings, there shall be a minimum lot width of
75 feet at the front building line.
         (c)   For multiple-family dwellings there shall be a minimum lot width
of 100 feet at the front building line.
      (5)   Intensity of use.
         (a)   For each single-family dwelling and building accessory thereto,
there shall be a lot area of not less than 6,000 square feet.
         (b)   For each two-family dwellings there shall be a lot area of not
less than 9,000 square feet.
         (c)   For multiple-family structures, there shall be a lot area of not
less than 6,000 square feet plus an additional 1,500 square feet for each
dwelling unit. For those structures which provide off-street parking within the
main structure, the lot area requirements may be reduced 200 square feet per
dwelling unit.
         (d)   For churches and other main and accessory buildings, other than
dwellings and buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate
to provide the yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking
areas required in §
155.049; provided, however, that the lot for a church shall not be less than
30,000 square feet.
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall cover not
more than 30% of the lot area.
   (E)   Usable open space. For multiple-family structures there shall be
usable open space provided for each dwelling unit of not less than 400 square
feet. Open space does not include drives, parking and service areas.
   (F)   Height regulation. No main building shall exceed two and one-half
stories or 35 feet in height, except as provided in §
155.047.
   (G)   Off-street parking. As regulated in §
155.049.
   (H)   Landscape requirements. As regulated in §
155.045.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-1) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1035, passed 8- -
2006; Ord. 1074, passed 5- -2009; Ord. 1109, passed 10- -2011)
§ 155.021 RESIDENTIAL B DISTRICT (RB).
   (A)   General description. This district is to provide for medium to high
residential development density. The principal uses of land range from
residences and mobile homes to uses which are functionally compatible with
intensive residential uses. Recreational, religious, education facilities and
other related uses in keeping with the residential character of the district
may be permitted on review by the governing body.
   (B)   Residential B Districts are subject to all Residential A District
regulations with the following exceptions: manufactured homes are allowed as
single-family dwellings when placed in accordance with local code requirements,
within existing mobile home parks per §
151.04 and outside of mobile home parks per §
151.05.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-02) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1074, passed 5- -
2009; Ord. 1156, passed 10- -2015)
§ 155.022 MOUNTAIN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (MR).
   (A)   General description. This district is intended to protect and preserve
the natural beauty and open character of forested and other natural growth
areas from incompatible land uses.
   (B)   Permitted principal and accessory uses and structures. Property and
buildings in the Mountain Residential District (MR) shall be used for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings but not including manufactured homes;
      (2)   Transportation and utility easements, alleys and rights-of-way;
      (3)   Signs, as regulated in §
155.051;
      (4)   Accessory uses and structures in accordance with §
155.046;
      (5)   Bed and breakfast facilities;
      (6)   Temporary placement of tents, campers, RVs and travel trailers
where the occupants are away from their place of legal residence for the
purpose of vacationing or visiting for a length of time not to exceed three
weeks in any 90-day period;
      (7)   As an accessory use to the primary use, up to two horses for
personal use may be kept provided that manure shall not be kept, stored or
stockpiled on the premises. Foals may be kept until weaning, but not to exceed
ten months of age; and
      (8)   An additional three horses, as well as cats and dogs, may be
boarded on said property, for up to one week as part of a bed and breakfast
operation, provided said property consists of not less than four acres, and
appropriate and sanitary facilities are provided for the keeping and securing
of those animals.
   (C)   Uses permitted on review. The following uses may be permitted on
review by the governing body in accordance with provisions contained in §
155.073:
      (1)   Public parks and/or playgrounds;
      (2)   Historical monuments or structures;
      (3)   Utility substations;
      (4)   Plant nurseries;
      (5)   Cemeteries;
      (6)   Customary home occupations;
      (7)   Light manufacturing, as defined in this chapter; and
      (8)   Other uses similar in character to those enumerated above and which
in the opinion of the governing body will not be injurious to the district.
   (D)   Nonpermitted use.
      (1)   Under no circumstances shall manufactured homes or manufactured
home parks be permitted in this district.
      (2)   Animal manure in any appreciable amount that is kept, piled, stored
or stockpiled shall be considered a non-compliance land use in accordance with
§
155.005(E).
   (E)   Area regulations. All buildings, corrals, pens and kennels shall be
set back from property lines to comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. For all structures, the minimum depth of the front yard
shall be 50 feet and in no case shall an accessory building be located or
extended into the front yard.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   For a single story dwelling, located on interior lots, side
yards shall be not less than 30 feet in width. For dwellings of more than one
story, there shall be a side yard requirement of not less than 40 feet.
         (b)   For unattached buildings of accessory use, there shall be a side
yard of not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard.
         (a)   For main buildings there shall be a rear yard of not less than
50 feet.
         (b)   Unattached buildings of accessory use shall not be located
closer to any rear lot line than 20 feet.
      (4)   Lot width. For all dwellings there shall be a minimum lot width of
100 feet at the front building line. Such lot shall abut on a public street for
a distance of not less than 50 feet.
      (5)   Intensity of use. For each dwelling or structure, and building
accessory thereto, there shall be a lot area of not less than three acres.
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage. Dwellings and buildings accessory thereto
shall cover not more than 25% of the lot area.
   (F)   Height regulations. No main building shall exceed two and one-half
stories or 35 feet in height, except as provided in §
155.047. Accessory buildings shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
   (G)   Off-street parking. As regulated in §
155.049.
   (H)   Landscape requirements. As regulated in §
155.045.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-03) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 995, passed 6- -
2003; Ord. 1074, passed 5- -2009)
§ 155.023 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (GC).
   (A)   General description. This commercial district is for personal and
business services and general business activity.
   (B)   Uses permitted. The following uses shall be permitted in the General
Commercial District provided that each use have street access to a commercial,
industrial or highway service zoning district street:
      (1)   Retail establishments including incidental manufacturing of goods
for sale at retail on the premises. Sales and display rooms and lots, not
including yards for storage of new or used building materials or yards for any
scrap of new or used building materials or yards for any scrap or salvage or
secondhand materials. The storage, display and sale of used, repossessed or
traded-in merchandise incidental to a retail operation engaged primarily in the
sale of new merchandise is permitted;
      (2)   Eating and drinking establishments;
      (3)   Vehicle service and repair garages, including filling stations;
      (4)   Personal service establishments, including barber and beauty shops,
shoe repair shops, funeral homes, cleaning, dyeing, laundry, medical and/or
dental clinics or offices, pressing, dressmaking, tailoring and garment repair
shops with processing on the premises;
      (5)   Hotels, motels, rooming, bed and breakfast and boarding houses;
      (6)   Commercial recreational structures and uses, such as theaters,
bowling alleys, poolroom, amusement and recreational establishments, and
miniature golf courses, but not including driving ranges, unless in an enclosed
structure;
      (7)   Parking lots and public garages;
      (8)   Offices, studios, human health service clinics and laboratories;
      (9)   Financial institutions;
      (10)   Private clubs and lodges;
      (11)   Outdoor advertising as regulated in §
155.051;
      (12)   Auditorium and recreation establishments;
      (13)   Public or municipal swimming pools;
      (14)   Laboratories and establishments for production and repair of
jewelry, eye glasses, hearing aids and prosthetic appliances;
      (15)   Public buildings and grounds other than elementary, middle or high
schools;
      (16)   Churches;
      (17)   Business and vocational schools not involving operations of an
industrial character;
      (18)   Public parks;
      (19)   Wholesale and distributing centers not involving the use of any
delivery vehicle rated at more than one and one-half tons capacity; nor a total
of more than five delivery vehicles;
      (20)   On the same premises, and in connection with permitted principal
uses and structures, other uses and structures which are customarily accessory
and clearly incidental to permitted or permissible uses and structures;
      (21)   Any other store or shop for retail trade or for rendering
personal, professional or business service which does not produce more noise,
dust, odor, vibration, blast and traffic than those permitted uses enumerated
above;
      (22)   Dwelling units in multi-storied structures wherein the street or
ground floor level is occupied by one of the permitted retail or business
services enumerated above; and
      (23)   Cannabis dispensary (subject to §
155.058).
   (C)   Uses permitted on review. The following uses may be permitted on
review by the governing body in accordance with the provisions contained in §
155.073:
      (1)   Electrical receiving or transforming stations;
      (2)   Public utility substations, service yards and pumping stations
subject to §
155.004(A)(3);
      (3)   Apartment houses;
      (4)   For any proposed business not having access to a commercial,
industrial or highway service street as permitted under division (B) above;
      (5)   An accessory apartment. (See definition) The use permit will be
subject to the following criteria.
         (a)   An accessory apartment would not be allowed as an accessory to
eating or drinking establishments.
         (b)   The accessory apartment would be required to have its own
entrance and that apartment shall have to meet all fire and life safety codes.
         (c)   The commercial character of the structure must be maintained
(e.g., all satellite dishes be roof mounted or mounted off of the facade).
         (d)   The business must be opened within the first six months of the
accessory apartment certificate of occupancy to meet the criteria of the use
permit. The goal is to have a business in place if someone is living on the
property and have commercial vacancies no longer than six months (including
off-season use).
      (6)   Other uses similar in character to those enumerated above and which
in the opinion of the governing body will not be injurious to the district.
   (D)   Non-permitted use.
      (1)   Under no circumstances shall manufactured homes or manufactured
home parks be permitted in this district.
      (2)   Under no circumstance shall vehicle or equipment repair facilities,
private or public, operate salvage operations of vehicles or vehicle parts
except as permitted in accordance with §
155.004(A)(5).
      (3)   Under no circumstances shall an adult oriented business be
permitted in this district.
   (E)   Area regulations. The following requirements shall apply to all uses
permitted in this district.
      (1)   Front yard. None.
      (2)   Side yard. No side yard is required except that the width of a side
yard which abuts a residential district shall be not less than 25 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. Where a commercial building is to be serviced from the
rear, there shall be provided an alleyway, service court, rear yard or
combination thereof of not less than 30 feet in depth. The depth of a rear yard
which abuts a residential district shall be not less than 15 feet. In all other
cases, no rear yard is required.
      (4)   Lot coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall cover not more
than 80% of the lot area.
   (F)   Height regulations. No building or structure shall exceed five stories
or 60 feet in height except as provided in §
155.047.
   (G)   Off-street parking. For permitted retail, business and personal
service establishments, no off-street parking requirements.
   (H)   Landscape requirements. As regulated in §
155.045.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-04) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 993, passed 3- -
2003; Ord. 1235, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 155.024 MIXED USE DISTRICT-I (MXD-I).
   (A)   General purpose and description. The Mixed Use District-I (MXD-I) is
intended to accommodate a variety of housing opportunities, office, retail,
service uses and live-work environments, and to ensure that the areas and land
uses are compatible with the character of existing mixed-use corridors and in
areas of new development. This district is expected to be pedestrian oriented
and maintain connectivity within the district and with adjacent neighborhoods.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Mixed Use District-I is intended to encourage a mix of
residential, business, office, commercial and institutional uses. The size,
location, appearance and method of operation of intended uses shall be
specified to the extent necessary to insure compliance with the purpose of this
district. The following uses shall be permitted in the Mixed Use District-I.
      (1)   Single-family, two-family and multi-family dwellings, hotels,
motels, condominiums, apartment buildings and dormitories;
      (2)   Home occupations as denoted in §
155.053 shall be permitted in accordance with §
155.073;
      (3)   Multi-story buildings where the ground floor is utilized as
commercial space and the upper stories are apartments or condominiums;
      (4)   Retail establishments;
      (5)   Eating and drinking establishments, excluding drive-in
establishments;
      (6)   Personal service establishments as allowed in General Commercial
Districts;
      (7)   Business or administrative offices, studios, medical clinics and
laboratories;
      (8)   Financial institutions, including drive-up services;
      (9)   Signs as regulated in §
155.051;
      (10)   Indoor recreation or amusement establishments;
      (11)   Business, vocational and public schools not involving outdoor
industrial operations;
      (12)   Churches, undertaking establishments and funeral homes;
      (13)   Wholesale and distribution centers that are conducted entirely
within a building; and
      (14)   On the same premises, and in connection with permitted principal
uses and structures, other uses and structures which are customarily accessory
and clearly incidental to permitted or permissible uses and structures.
   (C)   Uses permitted on review. The following uses may be permitted on
review by the governing body in accordance with the provisions contained §
155.073.
      (1)   Electrical receiving or transforming stations.
      (2)   Public utility substations, service yards and pumping stations
subject to §
155.004(A)(3).
      (3)   For any proposed business not having access to a commercial,
industrial or highway service street as permitted under division (B) above.
      (4)   Gasoline service and filling stations, and activities associated
with filling stations when those activities are conducted entirely within an
enclosed building, as regulated in §
155.052.
      (5)   An accessory apartment. (See definition.) The use permit will be
subject to the following criteria.
         (a)   An accessory apartment would not be allowed as an accessory to
eating or drinking establishments.
         (b)   The accessory apartment would be required to have its own
entrance and that apartment shall have to meet all fire and life safety codes.
         (c)   The commercial character of the structure must be maintained
(e.g. all satellite dishes be roof mounted or mounted off of the facade).
         (d)   The business must be opened within the first six months of the
accessory apartment certificate of occupancy to meet the criteria of the use
permit. The goal is to have a business in place if someone is living on the
property and have commercial vacancies no longer than six months (including
off-season use).
      (6)   Other uses similar in character to those enumerated above and which
in the opinion of the governing body will not be injurious to the district.
   (D)   Uses not permitted. The following groups, occupancies or uses are
expressly disallowed in the MXD-I District:
      (1)   Structures over three stories or 60 feet average roof height;
      (2)   Manufactured homes;
      (3)   Manufactured home parks;
      (4)   Manufactured home sales, service and repair facilities;
      (5)   RV parks, travel parks or campgrounds;
      (6)   Self-storage facilities, except those provided in conjunction with
approved residential uses;
      (7)   Any open storage or fenced open storage for the storage, display or
sale of used, repossessed or traded-in merchandise, including sand and gravel
storage and sales;
      (8)   Junkyards, salvage operations or storage of wrecked, junked or
inoperable vehicles or equipment; and
      (9)   Under no circumstances shall an adult oriented business be
permitted in this district.
   (E)   Area regulations. The following requirements shall apply to all uses
permitted in this district.
      (1)   Front yard. No structures shall be constructed closer than 25 feet
from any property line abutting a street right-of-way.
      (2)   Side yard.
         (a)   Side yard setbacks shall be no less than ten feet from the
property line for any single-story structure including any side driveway or
parking area thereof.
         (b)   Side yard setbacks shall be no less than 12 feet from the
property line for any two-story structure.
         (c)   Side yard setback shall be no less than 25 feet from the
property line for any structure greater than two stories in height.
      (3)   Rear yard.
         (a)   Residential structures; minimum 25 feet from the rear property
line.
         (b)   Commercial structure: minimum ten feet from the rear property
line. Where a commercial business is serviced from the rear there shall be
adequate space provided for off-alley parking of delivery vehicles.
      (4)   Lot widths and areas.
         (a)   Lots for commercial uses shall have a minimum lot width at the
front building line of not less than 75 feet, and a lot area of not less than
10,000 square feet, except for home occupations approved as a use permitted on
review in accordance with §
155.073.
         (b)   Lots utilized for multiple-family dwellings shall have a minimum
lot width at the front building line of not less than 100 feet, and a total
area of 6,000 square feet plus an additional 1,500 square feet for each
dwelling unit.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage (including all primary and accessory
structures).
         (a)   Residential uses: 30%.
         (b)   Other uses: 40%.
   (F)   Off-street parking. As regulated in §
155.049.
   (G)   Signs. As regulated in §
155.051.
   (H)   Landscape requirements. As required in §
155.045.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-05)
§ 155.025 HIGHWAY SERVICE DISTRICT (HS).
   (A)   General description. This district is established for the
accommodation of those herein specified retail and business service activities
that typically may be located and grouped along a major street or about a major
street intersection.
   (B)   Uses permitted. The following uses shall be permitted in the Highway
Service District:
      (1)   Motels;
      (2)   Restaurants and eating establishments, including drive-ins;
      (3)   Service stations and garages for running repairs as regulated in §
155.052;
      (4)   Souvenir shops and curio shops;
      (5)   Building material sales;
      (6)   Garden centers, greenhouses and nurseries;
      (7)   New and used car and truck sales;
      (8)   Farm implement and machinery, new and used sales;
      (9)   Financial institutions;
      (10)   Churches;
      (11)   Trucks, trailers for hauling, rentals and sales, U-Haul types;
      (12)   Motorcycle sales, repairs and services;
      (13)   Monument sales;
      (14)   Animal hospitals, kennels and any outdoor keeping of animals shall
be subject to the following requirements.
         (a)   Outdoor runs shall maintain a minimum setback of 40 feet from
all property lines, and 100 feet from residential uses.
         (b)   The clinic facility shall be constructed and operated in such a
manner as to minimize the transmission of sound to neighboring properties.
         (c)   Fenced outdoor runs and exercise areas shall be used only during
normal business hours, and shall be screened in accordance with §
155.045.
      (15)   Sales of prefabricated and shell houses;
      (16)   Auction houses;
      (17)   Manufactured home sales and service;
      (18)   Taxidermists;
      (19)   Undertaking establishments and funeral home;
      (20)   Outdoor advertising as regulated in §
155.051;
      (21)   Recreational uses such as amusement parks, bowling alleys and ice
and roller skating rinks;
      (22)   Archery ranges, miniature golf courses and other similar outdoor
recreational uses;
      (23)   Public parks;
      (24)   Open storage uses which shall comply with the following
provisions.
         (a)   All open storage and display of merchandise, material and
equipment shall be screened by a solid opaque fence a minimum of six feet in
height at the lot line which abuts any residential district. If this is not
adequate to screen the view of storage and display, the Zoning Administrator is
authorized to require additional landscaping or any other buffer technique.
         (b)   If the open storage is the primary use of the lot, and not in
association with a retail store, showroom, warehouse, commercial building and
the like, on the same lot, a solid fence a minimum of six feet in height shall
be provided for all storage areas with the exception of lots where the primary
use is the storage and parking of RVs and boats, in which case the fence is not
required provided the RVs and boats being stored are not junked nor inoperable.
         (c)   All servicing of vehicles carried on as an incidental part of
the sales operation shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building.
         (d)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall not exceed 25 feet
in width, exclusive of curb returns.
         (e)   Outdoor lighting, when provided, shall have an arrangement of
reflectors and an intensity of lighting which will not interfere with adjacent
land uses or the use of adjacent streets, and shall not be of a flashing or
intermittent type.
      (25)   Manufactured home parks presently licensed by the city will remain
in the district until a change of use occurs;
      (26)   Any other store or shop for retail trade or for rendering
personal, professional or business service which does not produce noise, dust,
odor or vibration;
      (27)   Two-family and multiple-family dwellings;
      (28)   Tank storage of bulk oil and gasoline and the mixture of bulk
storage of illuminating or heating gas, subject to the proper precautions as to
location to prevent fire and explosion hazards;
      (29)   Small scale contractor operations;
      (30)   Recreational vehicles (RV) parks and campgrounds;
      (31)   Cannabis dispensary (subject to §
155.058);
      (32)   Other uses similar in character to those enumerated above and
which in the opinion of the governing body will not be injurious to the
district.
   (C)   Uses permitted on review. Uses similar in character to those
enumerated above and which in the opinion of the governing body will not be
injurious to the district may be permitted on review by the governing body in
accordance with provisions contained in §
155.073.
      (1)   Adult oriented businesses; definitions. For the purpose of this
division (C), the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
and in which coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image producing devices are maintained to show images involving specific sexual
activities or specific anatomical areas to persons in booths or viewing rooms.
         ADULT BOOKSTORE OR VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that offers
for sale or rent any of the following as one of its principal business
purposes: books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, photographs,
films, motion pictures, videocassettes or reproductions or slides, or other
visual representations that depict or describe specific sexual activities or
specific anatomical areas; instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are
designed for use in connection with specific sexual activities.
         ADULT CABARET. Any nightclub, bar, restaurant or other similar
commercial establishment that regularly features:
            1.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
            2.   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specific anatomical areas or specific sexual activities; and/or
            3.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specific sexual activities or specific anatomical areas.
         ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment in which, for
any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or
other similar photographic reproductions that are characterized by the
depiction or description of specific sexual activities or specific anatomical
areas are predominantly shown.
         ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any adult arcade, adult bookstore or video
store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, massage
establishment that offers adult service, or nude model studios.
         ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment that predominantly features persons who appear in a
state of nudity or who engage in live performances that are characterized by
the exposure of specific anatomical areas or specific sexual activities.
         MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment in which a person, firm,
association or corporation engages in or permits massage activities, including
any method of pressure on, friction against, stroking, kneading, rubbing,
tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of external soft parts of the body
with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical apparatus or electrical
apparatus or appliance. This definition does not apply to:
            1.   Physicians;
            2.   Podiatrists;
            3.   Registered nurses or licensed practical nurses;
            4.   Physician assistants;
            5.   Certified nurse practitioners and certified nurse midwives;
            6.   Physical therapists;
            7.   Athletic trainers;
            8.   Massage therapists; or
            9.   Chiropractors.
         NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A place in which a person who appears in a state of
nudity or who displays specific anatomical areas is observed, sketched, drawn,
painted, sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted by other persons who
pay money or other consideration. The term NUDE MODEL STUDIO does not include a
proprietary school that is licensed by this state, a college or a university
that is supported entirely or in part by taxation, a private college or
university that maintains and operates educational programs in which credits
are transferable to a college or university that is supported entirely or in
part by taxation or a structure to which the following apply:
            1.   A sign is not visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising appears indicating that a nude person is available for
viewing;
            2.   A student must enroll at least three days in advance of a
class in order to participate; and
            3.   No more than one nude or seminude model is on the premises at
anytime.
         PLACE OF WORSHIP. A structure where persons regularly assemble for
worship, ceremonies, rituals and education relating to a particular form of
religious belief and which a reasonable person would conclude is a place of
worship by reason of design, signs or architectural or other features.
         RESIDENCE. A permanent dwelling place.
      (2)   Location of adult oriented business restricted; violation as
misdemeanor. No adult oriented business established after the effective date,
may be located within one-fourth mile of a child welfare agency, a private or
public school, a public playground, a public recreational facility, a residence
or a place of worship. For the purposes of this section, measurements shall be
made in a straight line in all directions, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest point on the property line of a parcel
containing an adult oriented business to the nearest point on the property line
of a parcel containing a child welfare agency, a private or public school, a
public playground, a public recreational facility, a residence or a place of
worship. An adult oriented business lawfully operating in conformity with this
section does not violate this section if a child welfare agency, a private or
public school, a public playground, a public recreational facility, a residence
or a place of worship subsequently locates within one-fourth mile of the adult
oriented business. A violation of this section is a Class 2 misdemeanor. Each
day of violation constitutes a separate offense.
      (3)   Hours of operation of certain adult oriented businesses; violation
as misdemeanor. No adult arcade, adult bookstore or video store, adult cabaret,
adult motion picture theater, adult theater or nude model studio may remain
open at any time between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sunday. A
violation of this section is a Class 2 misdemeanor. Each day of violation
constitutes a separate offense.
      (4)   Adult oriented uses. Adult oriented uses are limited entirely to
the Highway Service Zone.
      (5)   Action to enjoin violations. If there is reason to believe that a
violation of division (C)(3) above is being committed in any county or city,
the state’s attorney of the county shall, or a citizen of this state who
resides in the county or city in the citizen’s own name may, maintain an action
to abate and prevent the violation and to enjoin perpetually any person who is
committing the violation and the owner, lessee or agent of the building or
place in or on which the violation is occurring from directly or indirectly
committing or permitting the violation.
   (D)   Non-permitted use.
      (1)   Under no circumstances shall manufactured homes or manufactured
home parks be permitted in this district, with the exception that manufactured
home may serve as a sales office in conjunction with a manufactured home sales
and service establishment.
      (2)   Under no circumstance shall vehicle or equipment repair facilities,
private or public, operate salvage operations of vehicles or vehicle parts
except as permitted in accordance with §
155.004(A)(5).
   (E)   Area regulations. The following requirements shall apply to all uses
permitted in this district.
      (1)   Lot area. There shall be a lot area of not less than 10,000 square
feet.
      (2)   Side yard. Distance to interior property lines shall be not less
than ten feet; where a commercial building is serviced from the side there
shall be provided a distance of 30 feet to the interior property line.
      (3)   Front yard. All lots fronting on an arterial street shall have a
building setback of not less than 35 feet from the lot line.
      (4)   Rear yard. Each lot shall have a rear yard of not less than ten
feet; where a commercial building is serviced from the rear there shall be
provided a rear yard of not less than 30 feet; the depth of a rear yard which
abuts a street or a residential district shall not be less than 50 feet.
      (5)   Lot width. Each lot shall have a width at the front building line
of not less than 75 feet.
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage. The maximum lot area which may be covered by
a principal and accessory building shall not exceed 40%.
   (F)   Height restrictions. No principal building or structure shall exceed
three stories or 35 feet in height except as provided in §
155.047. No accessory building or structure shall exceed one story or 20 feet
in height.
   (G)   Off-street parking. §
155.049.
   (H)   Screening and landscaping. All yard areas required under this section
and other yards and open spaces existing around buildings shall be landscaped
and maintained in a neat condition as required in §
155.045.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-06) (Ord. 1232, passed 7-6-2021; Ord. 1235, passed 10-4-
2021)
§ 155.026 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (GI).
   (A)   General description. The General Industrial District (GI) is
established to provide areas in which the principal use of land is for light
manufacturing and assembly plants, processing, storage, warehousing,
wholesaling and distribution in which operations are conducted so that noise,
odor, dust and glare are completely confined within an enclosed building.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Property and buildings in the General Industrial
District (Gl) shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   A retail and service use only when it directly serves or is
auxiliary to the needs of industrial plants or employees thereof;
      (2)   No residential use, except sleeping facilities required by a
caretaker or night watchman employed on the premises shall be permitted in the
General Industrial District (GI);
      (3)   Business signs as regulated in §
155.051;
      (4)   Building material sales yard and lumberyards, including the sale of
rock, sand, gravel and the like as an incidental part of the main business, but
not including a concrete batch plant or a transit mix plant;
      (5)   Contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of
equipment commonly used by contractors;
      (6)   Freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
      (7)   Outdoor storage facilities for coal, coke, building materials,
sand, gravel, stone, lumber; open storage or construction contractor’s
equipment and supplies shall be screened by a seven-foot obscuring fence, wall
or mass plantings, or otherwise so located as not to be obnoxious to the
orderly appearance of the district;
      (8)   Public utility substations, service yards and pumping stations,
electrical receiving or transforming stations, subject to §
155.004(A)(3);
      (9)   Auction house, except for sale of livestock;
      (10)   Tire recapping or retreading; and
      (11)   The following uses when conducted within a completely enclosed
building:
         (a)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment
of such products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, dairy products, drugs,
perfumes, pharmaceuticals, perfumed toilet soap, toiletries and food products;
         (b)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of
articles of merchandise from the following previously prepared materials:
aluminum, bone, cellophane, canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fur, glass,
hair, horn, leather, paper, plastics, precious or semi-precious metals or
stones, shell, rubber, textiles, tin, iron, steel, wood (excluding saw mill),
yarn and paint not involving a boiling process;
         (c)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar
ceramic products, using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only
by electricity or gas;
         (d)   The manufacture and maintenance of electric and neon signs,
commercial advertising structures, light sheet metal products, including
heating and ventilating ducts and equipment, cornices, eaves and the like;
         (e)   The manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties, rubber
and metal stamps;
         (f)   Automobile assembling, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
reconditioning, body and fender works, truck repairing and overhauling, tire
retreading or recapping, and battery manufacturing;
         (g)   The sale, storage and sorting of junk, waste, discarded or
salvaged materials, machinery or equipment, but not including processing;
         (h)   Blacksmith shop and machine shop;
         (i)   Foundry casting lightweight nonferrous metal not causing noxious
fumes or odors;
         (j)   Planing mill;
         (k)   Wholesale or warehouse enterprise; and
         (l)   Buildings, structures and uses accessory and customarily
incidental to any of the above uses.
   (C)   Uses permitted on review. All of the following uses are declared to be
special uses and a use permit may be authorized by the governing body for the
location and operation thereof in the General Industrial District (GI) in
accordance with §
155.073:
      (1)   Acid manufacture;
      (2)   Blast furnace or coke oven;
      (3)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture;
      (4)   Distillation of bones;
      (5)   Drop forge industries manufacturing forging with power hammers;
      (6)   Explosives, manufacture or storage;
      (7)   Fat rendering, except as an incidental use;
      (8)   Fertilizer manufacture;
      (9)   Garbage, offal or dead animals reduction or dumping;
      (10)   Glue manufacture;
      (11)   Ore reduction;
      (12)   Paper and pulp manufacture;
      (13)   Processing of junk (junkyard), waste, discarded or salvaged
materials, machinery or equipment, including automobile wrecking or
dismantling, as regulated in §
155.004(A)(5);
      (14)   Refuse dumps;
      (15)   Rock, sand or gravel, or earth excavation, crushing or
distribution;
      (16)   Saw mill;
      (17)   Slaughter of animals including poultry killing or dressing;
      (18)   Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ores;
      (19)   Stockyards or feeding pens;
      (20)   Tannery or the curing or storage of raw hides;
      (21)   Acetylene gas manufacture or bulk storage;
      (22)   Business signs as regulated in §
155.051;
      (23)   Alcohol manufacture;
      (24)   Ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture;
      (25)   A retail or service use only when it serves directly or is
auxiliary to the needs of industrial plants or employees thereof;
      (26)   Asphalt manufacture or refining;
      (27)   Boiler works;
      (28)   Brick, tile or terra cotta manufacture;
      (29)   Chemical manufacture;
      (30)   Concrete or cement products manufacture;
      (31)   Freight, terminal (railroad);
      (32)   Iron, steel, brass or copper foundry or fabrication plant;
      (33)   Paint, oil, shellac, turpentine, varnish or enamel manufacture;
      (34)   Plastic manufacture;
      (35)   Power plant;
      (36)   Quarry or stone mill;
      (37)   Railroad repair shops;
      (38)   Rolling mill;
      (39)   Soap manufacture;
      (40)   Tar distillation or tar products manufacture;
      (41)   Tank storage of bulk oil and gasoline and the mixture of bulk
storage of illuminating or heating gas, subject to the proper precautions as to
location to prevent fire and explosive hazards.
         (a)   In general, those uses which may be obnoxious or offensive by
the reason of emission or odor, dust, smoke, gas, noise, vibration and the like
and not allowed in any other district; provided, however, that any use not
specified herein shall be approved by the governing body.
         (b)   Buildings, structures and uses accessory and customarily
incidental to any of the above uses.
   (D)   Nonpermitted use. Under no circumstances shall manufactured home or
manufactured home parks be permitted in this district.
   (E)   Area regulations. The following requirements shall apply to all uses
permitted in this district.
      (1)   Lot area. Any principal use together with all accessory uses shall
be located on a lot having a minimum area of 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Front yard. All buildings shall be set back from all street right-
of-way lines not less than 25 feet.
      (3)   Side yard.
         (a)   No building shall be located closer than 25 feet to a side yard
lot line.
         (b)   The width of a side yard which abuts a residential district
shall be not less than 50 feet.
      (4)   Rear yard.
         (a)   No building shall be located closer than 25 feet to the rear lot
line.
         (b)   The depth of a rear yard which abuts on a residential district
shall be not less than 50 feet.
      (5)   Coverage. Main and accessory building and off-street parking and
loading facilities shall not cover more than 75% of the lot area.
   (F)   Height regulations. No building or structure shall exceed five stories
or 60 feet in height, except as hereinafter provided in §
155.047.
   (G)   Minimum off-street parking and loading requirements. As regulated in §
155.049.
   (H)   Screening and landscaping. As regulated in §
155.045.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-07)
§ 155.027 GREENWAY DISTRICT (GD).
   This district is for the protection of drainageways to permit the unimpeded
flow of surface run-off without endangering life and health or causing property
damage due to flooding and is regulated in accordance with
Chapter 153, Flood Hazard Reduction.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-08)
§ 155.028 NO USE DISTRICT (NU).
   (A)   General description. This status is applicable to certain lands in
which the construction of permanent structures is prohibited pending study and
survey of the lands involved by the governing body. The status is a temporary
designation for the purpose of permitting proper investigation and study of
land uses in lands composing this status. The status shall be applied to newly
annexed land area and lands re-zoned for business in which no development has
occurred for a specified period after re-zoning.
   (B)   Newly annexed lands. All lands annexed by the city shall, upon
annexation, be placed in a “NU” status until the governing body has completed
an investigation and study of proposed land use of the area. Upon the
acceptance of a petition for annexation of an area to the city by the governing
body, the property owner of such area may request from the governing body an
investigation and study of such area. In the event that an ordinance annexing
an area has become effective without such investigation and study, the
governing body shall investigate and take action within 120 days after the
effective date of the annexation. In no event shall lands newly annexed to the
city be retained in “NU” status for a period in excess of one year from the
effective date of annexation.
   (C)   Land remaining undeveloped for two years after business re-zoning. 
      (1)   Lands rezoned for business use after the effective date hereof
shall revert to “NU” status in the event that within two years from the
effective date of such zoning:
         (a)   Such land is not devoted to permitted uses; or
         (b)   The construction of improvements for a permitted use has not
been commenced as evidenced by the issuance of a building permit and
construction pursuant thereto.
      (2)   In the event that land for business use does not revert to “NU”
status two years from the effective date of zoning issued for the construction
of improvements on such land, and such building permit thereafter expires, such
land shall revert to “NU” status.
   (D)   Procedure on reversion. As land reverts to “NU” status, the governing
body shall make an investigation and study of proper land use thereon and shall
initiate action within 60 days. In no event shall lands reverting to “NU”
status be retained in this status for a period in excess of 180 days.
   (E)   Building permits. Until an NU District is zoned under this section the
city shall not issue building permits in this district.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-09)
§ 155.029 GOLF COURSE DISTRICT (MGC).
   Central to the district is the municipal golf course lying within the
district. Any use determined by the governing body to be appropriate to this
district is permitted.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-10) (Ord. 1032, passed 4- -2008)
§ 155.030 GOLF COURSE RESIDENTIAL A DISTRICT (GCRA).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The city, recognizing the developer’s intent to
preserve the natural landscape and pristine vistas of the Southern Black Hills,
embraces the concept of this experimental mountainous golf course subdivision.
This concept maximizes the use of the natural topography, natural landscape and
natural drainages to reduce the human footprint in this development.
      (1)   In keeping with the spirit of the city’s Comprehensive Plan
regarding land use, recreation and housing development, and the goal of
preserving the natural beauty of the forested hills, the following has been
provided to achieve minimum impact construction and development while providing
a reasonably safe living environment:
         (a)   Reducing right-of-way widths to lessen the impact to the natural
environment and lessening the need for extensive erosion and sediment control
measures;
         (b)   Utilizing a street design that reduces the need for curb and
gutter, while at the same time providing improved storm water percolation to
reduce storm water erosion;
         (c)   Encouraging landowners to provide circle or turn-a-bout
driveways in order to eliminate cul-de-sacs at closed-end streets, further
reducing the paved footprint and reducing construction costs; and
         (d)   Eliminating the roadside sidewalk requirement due to the
decreased population and housing density, thus avoiding the disruption of the
natural landscape along the pristine roadways.
      (2)   This district will provide for medium residential development
density. The principal uses of land range from residences to uses which are
functionally compatible with residential uses. Other related uses in keeping
with the residential character of the district may be permitted on review by
the governing body. Business, commercial and industrial uses are generally
incompatible with the uses permitted in this district.
   (B)   Permitted principal and accessory structures. Property and buildings
in the Golf Course Residential “A” (GCRA) area shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings, two-family townhomes and two-family
condominiums;
      (3)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be immediately adjacent to said construction work and which
buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction
work;
      (4)   Transportation and utility easements, alleys, golf cart paths,
pedestrian and non-motorized transportation paths, and rights-of-way;
      (5)   Accessory uses and buildings provided such uses are incidental to
the principal use and do not include any activity commonly conducted as a
business; any accessory building shall be located on the same lot with the
principal building;
      (6)   Signs, as regulated in §
155.051; and
      (7)   In ground swimming pools, pool houses and related structures, in
the back yards only, as regulated by building codes.
   (C)   Uses permitted on review. The following may be permitted on review by
the governing body in accordance with provisions contained in §
155.073:
      (1)   Multiple-family dwellings, townhomes and condominiums;
      (2)   Historical monuments or structures;
      (3)   Public utilities, substations and pumping stations, subject to §
155.004(A)(3);
      (4)   Executive type golf courses, without clubhouses;
      (5)   Home occupations as regulated in §
155.053;
      (6)   Daycare facilities as regulated in §
155.004(A)(4);
      (7)   Foster homes;
      (8)   Satellite dishes greater than 24 inches in diameter;
      (9)   Towers or antennas;
      (10)   Unattached garages; and
      (11)   Public parks, playgrounds and playfields, greenways and walkways,
and municipal buildings and uses in keeping with the character and requirements
of the district.
   (D)   Area regulations. All buildings shall be set back from street right-
of-way lines and lot lines to comply with the following line requirements.
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   For single-family, two-family and multiple-family dwellings, the
minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet and in no case shall an
accessory building be located to extend into the front yard.
         (b)   Other main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings, shall
have a front setback of 35 feet.
      (2)   Side yard. For single story dwellings, located on interior lots,
and for unattached buildings or accessory uses, side yards shall be not less
than 15 feet in width.
      (3)   Rear yard. For all structures, there shall be a rear yard of not
less than 35 feet.
      (4)   Lot width.
         (a)   For single-family dwellings there shall be a minimum lot width
of 50 feet at the front building line.
         (b)   For two-family dwellings there shall be a minimum lot width of
75 feet at the front building line.
         (c)   For multiple-family dwellings there shall be a minimum lot width
of 100 feet at the front building line.
      (5)   Intensity of use.
         (a)   For each single-family dwelling and building accessory thereto,
there shall be a lot area of not less than 0.35 acre.
         (b)   For each two-family dwelling, two-family townhome or two-family
condominium, there shall be a lot area of not less than 0.45 acre.
         (c)   For multiple-family structures, townhomes and condominiums,
there shall be a lot area of not less than seven-tenths acre, and in no case
shall there be less than 2,000 square feet of open space per dwelling unit,
townhome unit or condominium unit.
         (d)   For other main and accessory buildings, other than dwellings and
buildings accessory to dwellings, the lot area shall be adequate to provide the
yard areas required by this section and the off-street parking areas required
in §
155.049.
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall cover not
more than 30% of the lot area.
   (E)   Usable open space. For multiple-family structures there shall be
usable open space provided for each dwelling unit of less than 1,300 square
feet. Open space does not include drives, parking and service areas.
   (F)   Height regulation. No main building shall exceed two stories or 35
feet in height, except that no structure fronting on the golf course shall
exceed one story in height except as provided in §
155.047.
   (G)   Off-street parking. As regulated in §
155.049.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-11) (Ord. 1032, passed 4- -2008)
§ 155.031 GOLF COURSE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (GCC).
   (A)   General description. Central to this district is the municipal golf
course lying within, adjacent to, or near the district. This golf course
commercial district is for limited personal and business services and general
business activity.
   (B)   Uses permitted. The following uses shall be permitted in the Golf
Course Commercial District:
      (1)   Eating and drinking establishments, but not including drive-in
establishments;
      (2)   Hotels, motels and if located in or as a part of such hotel or
motel, such businesses as may commonly be found in hotels or motels, such as
barber/beauty shops, gift shops, swimming, exercise and spa facilities open to
patrons and non-patrons of such hotel or motel;
      (3)   Lodges and bed and breakfast establishments, and if located in or
as a part of such lodge or bed and breakfast establishment, gift shops,
swimming, exercise and spa facilities open to patrons and non-patrons of such
lodge or bed and breakfast facility;
      (4)   Parking lots;
      (5)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which
buildings shall be immediately adjacent to said construction work and which
buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction
work;
      (6)   Transportation and utility easements, alleys, golf cart paths,
pedestrian and non-motorized transportation paths, and rights-of-way;
      (7)   On the same premises, and in connection with permitted principal
uses and structures, other uses and structures which are customarily accessory
and clearly incidental to permitted or permissible uses and structures; and
      (8)   Dwelling units in multi-storied structures wherein the street or
ground floor level is occupied by one of the permitted retail or business
services enumerated above.
   (C)   Uses permitted on review. Uses similar in character to those
enumerated above and which in the opinion of the governing body will not be
injurious to the district may be permitted on review by the governing body in
accordance with provisions contained in §
155.073.
   (D)   Non-permitted uses. Under no circumstances shall manufactured homes or
manufactured home parks be permitted in this district.
   (E)   Area regulations. The following requirements shall apply to all uses
permitted in this district.
      (1)   Front yard. None.
      (2)   Side yard. No side yard is required except that the width of a side
yard which abuts a residential district shall be not less than 25 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. Where a commercial building is to be serviced from the
rear, there shall be provided an alleyway, service court, rear yard or
combination thereof of not less than 30 feet in depth. The depth of a rear yard
which abuts a residential district shall be not less than 15 feet. In all other
cases, no rear yard is required.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage. Main and accessory buildings shall cover not
more than 80% of the lot area.
   (F)   Height regulations. No building or structure shall exceed five stories
or 60 feet in height except as provided in §
155.047.
   (G)   Off-street parking. As regulated in §
155.049.
   (H)   Landscape requirements. As regulated in §
155.045
(Prior Code, § 27-A-04-12) (Ord. 1032, passed 4- -2008)
§ 155.032 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (PUD).
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this district to provide flexibility from
conventional zoning regulations with increased public review for Planned Unit
Development (PUD) District projects in order to:   
      (1)   Encourage well-planned efficient development;
      (2)   Allow a planned and coordinated mix of land uses which are
compatible and are harmonious, but previously discouraged by conventional
zoning procedures;
      (3)   Encourage the redevelopment of contiguous large lot parcels into an
integrated and orderly subdivision pattern, with particular attention to
developing an efficient and coordinated network of internal streets;
      (4)   Promote the clustering of residential structures and other uses
without increasing overall density of the development area in order to preserve
unique and natural features such as woodlands, wetlands, natural drainage
systems and scenic areas;
      (5)   Protect sensitive areas and areas with restrictive soils conditions
within development areas through clustering of uses on land more suitable for
building;
      (6)   Reserve adequate public right-of-way within the development areas
for the eventual extension of arterial and collector streets, including proper
width and spacing of such streets; and
      (7)   Improve communication and cooperation among county, city, land
developers and interested residents in the development of agricultural land and
redevelopment of existing areas.
   (B)   Procedure. It is not the intent of the PUD to accommodate or encourage
the development of isolated small tracts of land where adjoining parcels are
not considered within an overall development scheme.
      (1)   Initial development plan. When a petitioner wants to request a
zoning or rezoning to the PUD, that company/person shall submit a request to
the Development Coordinator, showing the information specified in division (C)
of this section, a minimum of 30 days prior to the Planning and Zoning
Commission meeting at which consideration is desired. After the PUD request has
been reviewed, the Commission shall make a recommendation to approve or to deny
the request. This request for rezoning is subject to the requirements for
amendment of the zoning regulations specified in §
155.074 of this chapter. No permit shall be issued within the development until
the final development plan is approved and the plat filed.
      (2)   Final development plan.
         (a)   Prior to construction on any lots in the planned development,
the petitioner shall present a final development plan showing the information
specified in division (D) of this section to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for review and to make its recommendation to City Council.
         (b)   The final development may be submitted in conjunction with the
initial development plan for concurrent approval on any subareas the developer
is ready to commit to a final plan. All the information required for both an
initial and final development plan must be shown for the area submitted for
concurrent approval, except the developer may reference the requirements of one
of the traditional zoning districts as the development standard for a
particular area.
      (3)   Amendments.
         (a)   Major amendments. Major amendments to the initial and/or final
development plans shall be required to be approved as an amendment to the
zoning regulations, requiring Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council
approval.   
         (b)   Minor amendments. Minor amendments to the initial and/or final
development plans shall be required to be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission at a hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be given by the posting
of a sign on the property. Minor amendments to the initial development plan may
also be made by the submission and approval of a separate final development
plan which is changed from the approved initial development plan. Any such
amendments shall be shown as a change from the initial development plan on the
final development plan and be submitted 30 days prior to the next scheduled
Planning and Zoning Commission meeting to allow for noticing required for a
public hearing.   
         (c)   Minimal amendments. Minimal amendments to the final development
plan shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission on a reproducible
development plan showing the requested changes ten days prior to the next
scheduled Planning and Zoning Commission meeting. The Commission may then
approve the minimal change in writing, if they deem it appropriate.   
   (C)   Initial development plan. Upon application for rezoning to the PUD
District, the petitioner shall present an initial development plan to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for review and/or approval showing the following
information:
      (1)   Project name and legal description of the property;
      (2)   A preliminary subdivision plan, over a rough topography map; and
      (3)   The proposed development scheme showing the following information:
         (a)   The proposed land uses, including the number and type of
proposed residential buildings, the proposed number of dwelling units per
building, the number and type of any proposed nonresidential buildings and
their square footage;
         (b)   The proposed maximum density of the development, which shall not
exceed the density allowed in the traditional zoning districts for similar uses
except where unique physical, environmental or design characteristics make such
densities undesirable;
         (c)   The proposed minimum setbacks which shall be no less than those
required in the traditional zoning districts for similar uses, except where
unique physical, environmental or design characteristics make such densities
undesirable;
         (d)   The proposed maximum height which shall be no less than those
required in the traditional zoning districts for similar uses, except where
unique physical, environmental or design characteristics make such densities
undesirable;
         (e)   Proposed design features illustrating compatibility to the
surrounding environment and neighborhood;
         (f)   Anticipated subarea development sequence; and
         (g)   Proposed road layout and design conforming to engineering
requirements in
Chapter 154 of this title; and
         (h)   Approximate location for water, sewer and utilities.   
   (D)   Final development plan. Prior to construction on any lots in the PUD
District, the petitioner shall present a final development plan to the Planning
and Zoning Commission for their review and recommendation to City Council. No
construction may commence until the final approval from the City Council. The
final development plan shall show the following information:   
      (1)   The subdivision name, the property’s legal description and the
individual project name (if any);
      (2)   Boundaries of the subarea(s) submitted for approval superimposed on
the map of the initial development plan;
      (3)   A subdivision plat of the subarea(s) submitted for approval,
prepared by a licensed surveyor in the state; and   
      (4)   A 1:40 scale drawing showing the following information will be
required for everything except single-family detached dwelling subareas:
         (a)   Size and location of proposed structures including height and
number of units;
         (b)   Calculated floor area for each structure and a generic listing
of uses within said structure;
         (c)   Off-street parking lot arrangement designating all parking
spaces, off-street loading spaces and any outdoor trash container spaces;
         (d)   Any sidewalks, bikeways or other paths;
         (e)   Landscaping plans showing the type and location of any walls or
fences, the placement, size, and species of any trees and shrubs, and berms in
areas that will be sodded or seeded;
         (f)   All existing and proposed utilities, drainage ways, watercourses
and location of above ground existing utilities on adjacent properties. Meets
standards for sedimentation/erosion control per
Chapter 152 of this title;
         (g)   Proposed final topography;
         (h)   Existing and proposed uses adjacent to the area;
         (i)   Documentation of ownership and maintenance responsibility of any
common open spaces, structures, or facilities including private streets;
         (j)   Any subareas proposed for multiple residential development will
be encouraged to provide an open area for recreation. Said open spaces shall
not be included in any required yard, but shall be located in the same subarea
it is intended to serve. Access and improvements to the land will be shown;
         (k)   Roadway alignment, sections, right-of-way widths per city
engineering requirements; and
         (l)   Unless otherwise specified on the final development plan, all
development standards shall be the same as those set forth in the traditional
zoning districts, which shall be referenced for each subarea as part of the
final development plan. For example: minimum parking requirements for type of §
155.049 of this chapter.
   (E)   Amendments.
      (1)   The following changes in initial and/or final development plan are
considered major amendments:
         (a)   Any change in the proposed land use;
         (b)   Any major change in the street pattern; and
         (c)   A change in density of +/- 25%.
      (2)   The following changes in initial and/or final development plan are
considered minor amendments:
         (a)   Any adjustment in the size or shape of the building envelop
(increasing the height or changing the setback);
         (b)   Change in density of +/- 10%;
         (c)   Any decrease to the size of required open spaces; and
         (d)   A minor change in street alignment.
      (3)   The following changes in initial and/or final development plan are
considered minimal amendments:
         (a)   Any adjustment of a building within a previously established
building envelope; and
         (b)   A change in density of +/- 5%.
   (F)   Planned Unit Development Districts shall be enumerated.
      (1)   PUD #1 Mammoth Site.
         (a)   1.   This Planned Unit Development is intended to provide
flexibility from conventional zoning and encourage more creative, high-quality
educational design with special consideration given to projects which fit with
the Educational and Research Mission of The Mammoth Site of Hot Springs and its
future growth as a learning center. The Mammoth Site PUD incorporates multi-
room housing (dormitories) and commercial buildings (classrooms). The Mammoth
Site is currently being replotted into a 9.5 plus acre Educational and Research
Zone, combining the 50 plus individual lots into one tract that presently make
up the Mammoth Site Campus. The newly formed PUD will be formed between Highway
18 By-Pass and Detroit Avenue, with 19th Street and Mammoth Street (a non-
existent street) closing out the boundaries.
            2.   Intent. In the interest of promoting the general welfare of
The Mammoth Site and the City of Hot Springs, the image and character of The
Mammoth Site are of vital importance, as is making sure the surrounding
residential neighbors’ home values are protected. It is recognized that our
campus should be visually attractive. The quality of building construction is
essential to the preservation and enhancement of building and property values,
prevention of the physical deterioration of buildings, and promotion of the
image of The Mammoth Site and City of Hot Springs and the general welfare of
its employees and students.
         (b)   Uses permitted. The following uses shall be permitted in the PUD
#1 Mammoth Site:
            1.   Classroom;
            2.   Dormitory;
            3.   Exhibits/research;
            4.   Food service;
            5.   Current operations;
            6.   Parking lots;
            7.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work,
which structures shall be immediately adjacent to said construction work and
which buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the
construction work;
            8.   Transportation and utility easements, alleys, cart paths,
pedestrian and transportation paths, and rights-of-way;
            9.   On the same premises, and in connection with permitted
principal uses and structures, other uses and structures which are customarily
accessory and clearly identical to permitted or permissible uses and
structures;
            10.   Dwelling units in multi-storied structures.
         (c)   Uses permitted on review. Uses similar in character to those
enumerated above, which in the opinion of the governing body will not be
detrimental to the district may be permitted on review by the governing body
per provisions contained in §
155.073.
         (d)   Manufactured buildings shall be permitted in this district.
Mobile homes shall be allowed as dwellings when placed in accordance with local
code requirements per §
151.05.
         (e)   Area Regulations. The following requirements shall apply to all
uses permitted in this district:
            1.   Front yard   10'
            2.   Side yard   10'
            3.   Rear yard   10'
            4.   Two-story or more structure/side yard setback   12'
            5.   Maximum lot coverage. Primary and accessory buildings shall
cover not more than 50% of the property area.
         (f)   Height regulations. No building or structure shall exceed five
stories or 60 feet in height except as provided in §
155.047.
         (g)   Off-street parking requirements, general. There shall be
provided at any time any building or structure is erected or enlarged or
increased in capacity, off-street parking space for automobiles in accordance
with the following requirements.
            1.   a.   Off-street parking shall be either on the same lot or
within 200 feet of the campus. It is measured from the nearest point of the
building to the nearest point of the street parking lot, without crossing any
major thoroughfare.
               b.   In cases of shared off-street parking, the Zoning
Administrator may grant an exception when the applicant can show no negative
impact on the surrounding neighborhood.
            2.   Off-street parking space shall consist of:
               a.   A parking lot, driveway, garage or combination thereof and
shall be located on the lot they are intended to serve; and
               b.   Adequate provisions for the off-street parking of any RV,
camper, trailer, boat, or other seasonal recreation vehicles.
            3.   Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall
not be changed to any other use unless and until equal facilities are provided
elsewhere.
            4.    Off-street parking existing on the effective date of this
chapter in connection with the operation of the existing campus shall not be
reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building
or use.
            5.   Two or more buildings or uses may collectively provide the
required off-street parking, in which case the required number of parking
spaces shall be not less than the sum of the requirements for several
individual uses computed separately.
            6.   The required off-street parking shall be for occupants,
employees, visitors, and patrons and shall be limited in use to motor vehicles.
The storage of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, or the repair of vehicles
on such parking areas is prohibited.
      (2)   PUD #2 Martin Tracts 1 and 2.
         (a)   1.   The Planned Unit Development (PUD) is intended to provide
healthy and comfortable housing to accommodate the growing population of Hot
Springs. Martin Tract 1 is approximately 4.5 acres. The owner is proposing to
develop five two-family townhomes, three single-family homes and a small
community park on Martin Tract 1. Martin Tract 2 is approximately 2.4 acres.
The owner is proposing to develop five townhomes on Martin Tract 2.
            2.   The PUD conforms to a majority of the Golf Course Residential
A District’s zoning requirements. The PUD is seeking some exceptions to the
zoning requirements in order to accommodate the proposed scope due to the
unique shape of Martin Tract 2 which is impeded by the “Entrance Tract West”
adjacent to its southwest corner and an existing manhole in the south of the
tract.
         (b)   Uses permitted. The proposed development conforms to the uses
permitted which include but are not limited to the following:
            1.   Single-family dwellings.
            2.   Two-family dwellings, two-family townhomes and two-family
condominiums.
         (c)   Setbacks.
            1.   Most of the proposed structures conform to the property
setback requirements which include:
               A.   Front yard: 25 feet.
               B.   Side yard: 15 feet.
               C.   Rear yard: 35 feet.
            2.   The PUD is granting exceptions for the following lots on
Martin Tract 2 due to the impediments on and adjacent to the tract and its
resulting unique shape:
               A.   Lot 1: Rear setback of 25 feet (for covered rear decks
only, enclosed area conforms to zone setbacks).
               B.   Lot 2: Rear setback of 25 feet (for covered rear decks
only, enclosed area conforms to zone setbacks).
               C.   Lot 4: Rear setback of 23 feet, side yard setback of 9 feet
(for small portion of covered porches, rear decks and 2 feet of enclosed
structure).
               D.   Lot 5: Side-yard setback of 10 feet and front yard setback
of 21 feet (for small portion of covered rear deck and covered porch only,
enclosed area conforms to zone setbacks).
         (d)   Building heights. All proposed structures shall meet the zoning
requirements. No building shall exceed two stories or 35 feet in height.
         (e)   Lot widths.
            1.   Every proposed two-family townhouse property shall have at the
required minimum lot width of 75 feet at the front building line.
            2.   Every proposed single-family dwelling property shall have the
required minimum lot width of 100 feet at the front building line.
         (f)   Maximum lot coverage. Most of the proposed properties conform to
the maximum lot coverage requirement (30%), due to the impediments that form
the unique shape of Martin Tract 2, the PUD is granted the following
exceptions:
            1.   Lot 1: 34% lot coverage.
            2.   Lot 2: 33% lot coverage.
            3.   Lot 3: 38% lot coverage.
         (g)   Intensity of use. Most of the proposed properties conform to the
minimum lot size requirements: .35 acres for single family units and .45 acres
for two family dwellings. The PUD is granted exceptions for the following lots:
            1.   Lot 1: .38 acres (two-2 family townhouse).
            2.   Lot 2: .39 acres (two-family townhouse).
            3.   Lot 4: .34 acres (two-family townhouse).
         (h)   Usable open space. Each proposed dwelling has at least 1,300
square feet of usable open space.
         (i)   Off-street parking. Every proposed dwelling shall have its own
garage. The proposed single-family dwellings shall have a driveway and the
proposed two-family dwellings shall have a shared driveway.
         (j)   Detached garages/additional dwelling units.
            1.   On lots 13, 14 and 15 only, a detached garage or an additional
dwelling unit shall be allowed in the rear yard up to 13 feet from the rear
property line. Additional dwelling units shall be no more than 1,200 square
feet and shall conform to the existing building height limitations. Additional
dwelling units shall have at least one full bathroom that is a minimum of 30
square feet and shall include a minimum of one three-foot by three-foot
standing shower. Additional dwelling units shall also have a kitchenette with a
sink and stove top.
            2.   Detached garages shall be up to 1,200 square feet maximum.
Additional dwelling units up to 1,200 square feet may be above a first story
garage.
         (k)   Fences. Each lot may have side and rear yard fences up to six
feet in height. Side yard fences may extend up to the property’s front yard
setback and may be built within one foot of the side and rear yard property
lines.
(Ord. 1198, passed 4-15-2019; Ord. 1210, passed 4-6-2020; Ord. 1251, passed 11-
20-2023)
§ 155.033 AIRPORT ZONE (AZ).
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AIRPORT. The Hot Springs Municipal Airport.
      AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking-off at the
airport or as is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking-off of aircraft.
      NONCONFORMING USE. Any structure or neglected tree or use of land which
does not conform to a regulation prescribed in this section or an amendment
thereto as of the effective date of such regulations. See §
155.005.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association or body politic, and includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee or other similar representative thereof.
      STRUCTURE. Any object constructed or installed, including, but not
limited to, buildings, towers, smokestacks, granaries and overhead transmission
lines.
      TREE. Any vegetative object of natural growth.
   (B)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Airport Manager and/or the Development
Coordinator to administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein.
Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the Airport Manager
upon a form furnished by the city. Applications which are by this section to be
decided by the Airport Manager shall be considered in a timely manner and
granted or denied.
      (2)   Applications for a new physical project shall be transmitted to the
Airport Manager and then to the Development Coordinator. If the topic of the
application involves a topic of a technical nature the project may be referred
the Airport Advisory Committee for comments and recommendations. The Advisory
Committee will make their recommendation to the Planning and Zoning Commission
(PZC) for their review. The PZC recommendation will be sent to the City Council
for its review and decision.
   (C)   Application of this section in cases of conflict. Where this section
imposes a greater or more stringent restriction upon the use of land than is
imposed or required by any other ordinance or regulation, the provisions of
this section shall govern.
   (D)   Adoption of airport zones - zoning map.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, all of the land lying within the
outer boundary of the zoned area of the airport is divided into the following
zones and areas:
         (a)   Inner zone:
            1.   Landing area;
            2.   Inner areas of approach zones;
            3.   Transition zones.
         (b)   Outer zone:
            1.   Outer areas of approach zones;
            2.   Turning zones.
      (2)   The boundaries of these zones and areas are hereby established as
shown on the airport zoning map, dated 7-30-2019, and on file in the office of
the Development Coordinator. The boundaries of said zones and areas may be
amended and supplemented from time to time by the Airport Advisory Committee
and the PZC and approved by the City Council. The Airport Manager and
Development Coordinator shall maintain said map up-to-date at all times.
   (E)   Permit required for future uses. No material change shall be made in
the use of land and no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or
otherwise established, in any zone hereby created, unless an airport building
permit has been applied for and granted.
   (F)   Airport use permit required for alterations.
      (1)   Before any existing use, or structure may be replaced,
substantially altered, repaired or rebuilt, within any zone hereby created, an
airport use permit must be secured authorizing such replacement, change or
repair.
      (2)   No such permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment
or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, or to allow a
structure or modification to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it
was on the effective date of this zoning amendment.
      (3)   While evaluating the application the following information shall be
considered:
         (a)   The actual or projected characteristics of the use in
relationship to the uses and needs of the airport;
         (b)   The size and relative site area of the project and its
conformance with the Airport Master Plan;
         (c)   The relative number of employees or customers generated by the
activity;
         (d)   Hours of operation;
         (e)   Vehicles, equipment and utility needs of the proposed activity;
         (f)   Potential wildlife hazards associated with the activity.
   (G)   Abandonment or destruction of nonconforming uses. Whenever the Airport
Manager determines that a nonconforming structure has been abandoned or more
than 50% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed:
      (1)   No permit shall be granted that would allow such structure to
exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations; and
      (2)   Whether application is made for a permit under this division or
not, the Airport Manager may by appropriate action compel the owner of the
nonconforming structure at his own expense, to lower, remove, or reconstruct
such objects as may be necessary to conform to the regulations or, if the owner
of the nonconforming structure shall neglect or refuse to comply with such an
order after ten days’ notice, the Airport Manager may proceed to have the
object so lowered, removed, or reconstructed and assess the cost and expense
thereof upon the owner of the building whereon it is or was located.
   (H)   Variances permitted by Planning and Zoning Commission. See §
155.071.
   (I)   Permits and variances may be conditioned to require marking and
lighting of airport hazards. Any permit or variance granted may, if such action
is deemed advisable to effectuate the purposes of this section and reasonable
in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the
structure in question to permit the city to install at the owner’s expense,
operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to
indicate to flyers the presence of an airport hazard.
   (J)   Unlawful and prohibited uses. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, it shall be unlawful to place on any land located within any zone
hereby created to any of the following prohibited uses:
      (a)   Transformer stations.
      (b)   High power transmission lines.
      (c)   Manufacturing establishments or other uses which produce smoke or
steam interfering with the safe use of the airport.
      (d)   All plants and businesses of every kind which emit or discharge
gases and odors that would interfere with the health or safety of the public in
the use of the airport.
      (e)   Businesses or structures of any kind that may be detrimental or
injurious to the health, safety, and general welfare of the public in the use
of the airport.
         1.   No glare-producing materials shall be used on the exterior of any
structure, including metal building materials, which are hazardous to aviation
or could result in a glare in the vision of pilots using the airport.
         2.   There shall not be a display of signs or billboards which produce
a flashing or blinking effect that could interfere with an aircraft or a
pilot’s ability to identify airport lights, nor any lighting projected upward
or mimicking runway edge lighting.
      (f)   Any other use which would create electrical interference with radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for flyers to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the vision of
flyers using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport or
otherwise endanger the landing, taking-off or maneuvering of aircraft.
   (K)   Existing nonconforming uses. The regulations prescribed by this
section shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change
or alteration of any structure not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date hereof.
   (L)   Requirement for conforming to certain height limitations.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no structure or tree
shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or be maintained in any part of the
inner or outer zones created by this section to a height in excess of the
height limits hereby established for such zones.
      (2)   The height limits for each of the zones and areas created are
hereby established as shown and noted on the Airport Layout Plan.
   (M)   Requirements and procedures for appeals of decisions.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved or taxpayer affected, by any decision of the
Airport Manager, made in his or her administration of this section, or any
governing body of a political subdivision, is of the opinion that a decision of
the Airport Manager is an improper application of these regulations, may appeal
to the Hot Springs Airport Advisory Committee which in turn would make their
recommendation to the Hot Springs City Council.
      (2)   The City Council shall fix a time for the hearing of the appeal,
give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest and decide the
same within a reasonable time.
      (3)   The City Council may, in conformity with the provisions of this
section, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement,
decision or determination as ought to be made.
   (N)   Airport zone map. The location, size, shape, and boundaries of the
zones to which the provision of the text of this section are applicable, shall
be indicated on the Hot Springs Municipal Airport Zone Map, and so reviewed by
the Airport Advisory Committee and together with the text, shall be maintained
by the City Development Coordinator and the Airport Manager. Said map shall be
the airport zoning map, for the purpose of enforcement of this ordinance.
   (O)   Statement of purpose for Airport Zone A.
      (1)   This zone provides for development around the airport that will
allow the highest use of the land, yet will be compatible with airport
operations.
      (2)   This zone limits or restricts the uses which are permitted for the
zoning districts which lie within the boundaries of Airport Zone A. Any
structural development must meet the criteria for height restrictions as well
as compatibility.
   (P)   Principal permitted uses. The following are permitted as the principal
uses of any property in the Airport Zone A:
      (1)   Aviation associated activity;
      (2)   Air terminals;
      (3)   Aircraft hangers;
      (4)   Runways, taxiways, aprons, and related lighting and air support
apparatus;
      (5)   Airport administration and maintenance buildings and facilities;
      (6)   Airport security, rescue, and firefighting buildings and
facilities;
      (7)   Aircraft repair and maintenance buildings and facilities;
      (8)   Fuel storage facilities and pumps;
      (9)   Commercial uses directly related to airport operations;
      (10)   Public gatherings in conjunction with an airport-related activity
sponsored or approved by the Airport Manager;
      (11)   Air cargo facilities;
      (12)   Other related airport and municipal uses and structures;
      (13)   Municipal emergency response facilities;
      (14)   Agricultural uses provided they do not result in a concentration
of birds or other wildlife, which poses a threat to aviation operations, or a
visibility problem due to the height of vegetation;
      (15)   Any use which can meet the purposes and performance standards set
forth for the respective zoning districts, but not specifically excluded or
specifically mentioned as belonging in another less restrictive district.
   (Q)   Certain uses in Airport Zone A declared incompatible and excluded. The
following uses are hereby declared incompatible with the purpose of airport
zone A and are expressly excluded:
      (1)   All residential dwellings;
      (2)   Auditoriums, concert halls, music shells, and outdoor theaters;
      (3)   Churches, schools, colleges, rest homes, retirement homes, and
similar facilities;
      (4)   Hospitals and clinics;
      (5)   General public office buildings;
      (6)   Mortuaries, funeral homes and funeral chapels;
      (7)   Industrial and manufacturing establishments or other uses which
produce smoke or steam interfering with the safe use of the airport;
      (8)   Any other use which would create electrical interference with radio
communications between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for flyers
to distinguish between airport lights and others, or result in a glare in the
vision of flyers using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the
airport.
   (R)   Statement of purpose in Airport Zone B. This zone provides for future
uses on the airport property.
   (S)   Accessory uses. Any accessory use normally appurtenant to a permitted
use shall be allowed provided such a use shall conform to all performance
standards set forth under airport zoning.
   (T)   Airport Master Plan. All existing and proposed uses, structures and
activities shall comply and be in harmony with the Airport Master Plan, Hot
Springs Municipal Airport, Hot Springs, SD SEH No. HOTSP 129766 4.00 dated
March 10, 2016 and all subsequent updates and revisions.
(Ord. 1201, passed 9-3-2019)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide good visual appeal to buildings
and paved areas through the use of trees, shrubs and plants, to encourage areas
of established native forest to be reserved within a project/development site
and to properly protect preserved areas during construction, to buffer non-
complimentary land use and to require timely replacement of landscape
components lost after construction.
§ 155.045 LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS, AESTHETIC BARRIERS AND SCREENING
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever property in one zoning category abuts property of a more
restrictive zoning category (Residential ‘A’ being the most restrictive) and
the property in the less restrictive category is being developed, the Zoning
Administrator may require, as a condition of the building permit, such barriers
be constructed by the developer as are deemed necessary and appropriate for the
protection of the more restrictive area. Such devices may include fences,
hedges, traffic controls and patterns or any other device reasonably necessary
to attain the goals sought.
   (B)   No lane, road, avenue, street or platted street or right-of-way shall
be accessed through any privately owned property or by any subdivision or
development except where that access has been reviewed by the Commission and
accepted by the city as a deeded or platted access, and in no case shall any
lane, road, avenue or street receive traffic flow greater than its intent and
design.
   (C)   Landscaping, as required herein, shall be provided for all multi-
family residential, civic, church, office, commercial and industrial
construction within the jurisdiction of the city. Landscaping shall also be
provided for any addition to an existing multi-family residential, civic,
church, office, commercial or industrial use if the proposed addition or use
increases the size or occupant load of the existing structure. Requirements are
as follows:
      (1)   Application. Landscaping consisting of trees, shrubs, ground cover,
flowers and screening as deemed applicable shall be required for any new
construction or expansion of existing uses. Hereafter, all plans submitted in
support of a building permit shall include a landscape plan and include
screening where appropriate.
      (2)   Information required. All plans submitted for approval of a
landscape plan shall have the following information included:
         (a)   North point and scale;
         (b)   The location, size and surface of materials of all structures
and parking areas;
         (c)   Topographic information and final grading adequate to identify
and properly specify planting for areas needing slope protection;
         (d)   The location, size and type of all above ground and underground
utilities and structures within property notation, where appropriate, as to any
safety hazards to avoid during landscape installation. Landscaping shall not
interfere with above or below ground utilities or sewer systems. Landscaping
shall be located to ensure long term growth;
         (e)   Complete and accurate botanical and common names of each plant
material, the number and location of trees or plants to be placed, the size of
planting and areas to receive seed or sod;
         (f)   Mature sizes of plant material shall be drawn to scale and
called out on plan by common name of appropriate key;
         (g)   Location of hose connections and other water sources;
         (h)   Any proposed retaining walls, indicating location, size and
material to be used in the construction of the wall; and
         (i)   The location, size and type of required screening methods
required as follows:
            1.   All plans submitted in support of a building permit or use
permit shall include a detailed drawing of applicable screening methods. Such
drawings may be included as part of the landscape plan. Any buffer or screening
requirement located on an adjacent property may be utilized as a portion of a
required buffer or screen.
            2.   Commercial trash bin screening. All multi-family residential
projects, mobile home parks, civic, church and all commercial, office and
industrial project shall be included on the landscape plan with a detailed
drawing of enclosure and screening methods to be used in connection with trash
bin(s), storage yards, parking lots and equipment areas on the property. No
trash bin shall be visible from the street, and a permanent masonry or frame
enclosure shall be provided for each such bin.
            3.   Screening requirements shall be in compliance with division
(C)(3) below.
      (3)   Screening standards. A screen shall consist of a screen wall,
fence, earth berm or densely planted evergreen to effectively restrict the view
to adjoining property to a height of not less than eight feet. Multi-story
buildings must have in addition to a sight proof fence, a continuous row of
deciduous canopy trees adjacent to residential land uses.
      (4)   Existing screening. No existing screening or landscape buffer shall
be removed from any developed or undeveloped commercial property, which
directly abuts a residentially zoned property, without first submitting and
obtaining approval for a landscaping plan, which plan provides for replacement
screening conforming to all provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-01)
§ 155.046 PERMITTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Accessory uses. The uses of land, buildings and other structures
permitted in each of the districts established by this chapter are designated
by listing the principal uses permitted. In addition to such principal uses,
this section shall regulate uses customarily incidental to any principal use
permitted in the district.
   (B)   General provisions. 
      (1)   Each permitted accessory use shall:
         (a)   Be customarily incidental to the principal use established on
the same lot;
         (b)   Be subordinate to and serve such principal use;
         (c)   Be subordinate in area, extent and purpose to such principal
use; and
         (d)   Contribute to the comfort, convenience or necessity of users of
such principal use.
      (2)   Accessory uses shall be permitted as specified above. Such
accessory uses shall be applicable to the principal use, shall conform to
applicable setback requirements, and shall include but not be limited to the
following.
         (a)   For dwellings.
            1.   Shelter to house animal pets, but not exceeding two shelters
per dwelling, the total square foot area not to exceed 32 square feet;
            2.   Children’s playhouse and playground equipment;
            3.   Private greenhouse, vegetable, fruit or flower garden, from
which no products are sold or offered for sale;
            4.   Private garage or carport;
            5.   Private swimming pool and bathhouse; and
            6.   Shed for the storage of maintenance or recreation equipment
used on the premises, total square footage of storage not to exceed 192 square
feet.
         (b)   For church, chapel, temple or synagogue.
            1.   Parish house or residence for the clergyman of the
congregation;
            2.   Religious education building; and
            3.   Other accessory uses which in the opinion of the governing
body will not be injurious to the district may be permitted as a use permitted
on review.
         (c)   For education institutions.
            1.   Convent or lay teacher’s quarters;
            2.   Dormitories;
            3.   Power or heating plants;
            4.   Stadiums, gymnasiums, field houses, game courts or fields; and
            5.   Other accessory uses which in the opinion of the governing
body will not be injurious to the district may be permitted as a use permitted
on review.
         (d)   For golf and country clubs.
            1.   Dwelling for caretaker;
            2.   Maintenance equipment storage shed;
            3.   Pro shop;
            4.   Lounge and dining area; and
            5.   Other accessory uses which in the opinion of the governing
body will not be injurious to the district may be permitted as a use permitted
on review.
         (e)   For hospitals and health institutions.
            1.   Staff quarters;
            2.   Laundry, incidental to the principal use only;
            3.   Medical and nursing instruction;
            4.   Chapel; and
            5.   Other accessory uses which in the opinion of the governing
body will not be injurious to the district may be permitted as a use permitted
on review.
         (f)   For industrial uses in the industrial districts.
            1.   Offices;
            2.   Restaurants or cafeterias;
            3.   First aid clinics or dispensaries;
            4.   Watchmen’s quarters;
            5.   Research or pilot structures; and
            6.   Other accessory uses which in the opinion of the governing
body will not be injurious to the district may be permitted as a use permitted
on review.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-02)
§ 155.047 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions of quality and
supplement, as the case may be, the specific district regulations set forth in
§§
155.020 through
155.031.
   (A)   In measuring heights, a walk-out basement or habitable attic shall be
counted as a half story.
   (B)   The following structures or parts thereof are hereby exempt from the
height limitations set forth in the zoning districts:
      (1)   Agricultural buildings: barns, silos, windmills, but not including
dwellings;
      (2)   Chimneys, smokestacks, penthouses, flagpoles, ventilators,
skylights, derricks, conveyors and cooling towers;
      (3)   Radio and television antennas and towers, observation towers and
power transmission towers;
      (4)   Water tanks and standpipes; and
      (5)   Other similar and necessary mechanical appurtenances pertaining to
and necessary to the permitted uses of the districts, in which they are
located, provided that they are not used for human occupancy.
   (C)   Churches, schools, hospitals, sanatoriums and other public and semi-
public buildings may exceed the height limitations of the district if the
minimum depth of the front, side and rear yards required in the district is
increased one foot for each two feet by which the height of such public and
semi-public structure exceeds the prescribed height limit.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-03)
§ 155.048 YARD AND BUILDING SETBACK AND OPEN SPACE EXCEPTIONS.
   The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions or qualify and
supplement, as the case may be, the specific district regulations set forth in
§§
155.020 through
155.031.
   (A)   No yard, open space or lot area required for a building or structure
shall, during its life, be occupied by any other building or structure except:
      (1)   Awnings, arbors and canopies encroachment not to exceed six feet;
      (2)   Bay windows and chimneys, not to exceed two feet;
      (3)   Driveways, curbs and sidewalks;
      (4)   Fences, walls and hedges, subject to the regulations as set forth
in this section;
      (5)   Flagpoles, light poles, mailboxes and similar miscellaneous
placements;
      (6)   Garbage disposal equipment, nonpermanent;
      (7)   Landscape features, planting boxes;
      (8)   Overhanging roof, eave, gutter, cornice or other architectural
features, not to exceed three feet;
      (9)   Parking space subject to the regulations set forth in §
155.049;
      (10)   Signs, subject to the regulations set forth in §
155.051;
      (11)   Covered steps, stoops, ramps, porches, decks, patios or terraces
provided the total footprint of such structure(s) is not greater than 60 square
feet in area, is not enclosed, and does not encroach into the required yard
(set back area) more than six feet; and
      (12)   Trees, shrubs, flowers and other plants subject to the vision
requirements in this section.
   (B)   The following regulations provide for the maximum safety of persons
using sidewalks and streets, and for the maximum enjoyment of the use of
property.
      (1)   On any corner lot where a front and side yard is required, no wall,
vehicle, fence, sign, structure or any plant growth which materially obstructs
sight lines at elevations between two and one-half feet and ten feet above the
crown of the adjacent roadway shall be placed or maintained within a triangle
formed by measuring from the point of intersection of the front and exterior
side lot lines a distance of 25 feet along the front and side lot lines and
connecting the point so established to form a slight triangle on the area of
the lot adjacent to the street intersections.
      (2)   In any required front yard, except as provided in division (B)(1)
above, no fence, wall, hedge or yard ornament shall be permitted which
materially impedes vision across such yard above the height of three and one-
half feet.
      (3)   Sound and safety barriers in the form of shrubbery, landscaping,
opaque fences or walls along lot lines adjoining the rights-of-way of major or
minor arterial streets with controlled intersections may be approved as a use
permitted on review in accordance with §
155.073. The fee for the use permit hearing shall be waived where a property
owner is seeking a use permit for a sound and safety barrier which is in
existence at the time that this chapter is enacted.
   (C)   The purpose here is to clarify certain conditions pertaining to the
use of lots and access points.
      (1)   In residential districts, if 25% or more of the lots on one side of
the street between two intersecting streets are improved with buildings all of
which have observed an average setback line of greater than five feet from this
average setback line, then no building shall be erected closer to the street
line than the minimum setback so established by the existing buildings; but,
this regulation shall not require a front yard of a greater depth than 50 feet.
      (2)   In a residential district, if 50% or more of the lots on one side
of the street between two intersecting streets are improved with buildings all
of which have observed an average setback of less than 25 feet and no building
line varies more than five feet from this average setback line, then a building
may be erected observing the average setback so established.
      (3)   Lots having frontage on more than one street shall provide the
required front yards along those streets.
      (4)   Division of a lot.
         (a)   No recorded lot shall be divided into two or more lots unless
such division results in the creation of lots each of which conform to all of
the applicable regulations of the district in which the property is located. No
reduction in the size of a recorded lot below the minimum requirements of this
chapter shall be permitted. All subdivided property must be recorded on a new
plat map according to procedure outlined in the subdivision ordinance (
Chapter 154) of the city.
         (b)   No structure shall be constructed so as to be built on top of,
or to extend over, platted property lines. Structures shall be required to
comply with the set back requirements from property lines for the district in
which they are located.
         (c)   No structure shall be constructed on any vacated street or alley
without such vacated street or alley having been recorded on a new plat map and
recorded in the County Register of Deeds office.
         (d)   Municipal utilities serving a property shall enter that property
directly from the right-of-way or easement containing those municipal
utilities, except where a legal utility easement has been provided for those
utility services to cross separately platted properties.
      (5)   Dwellings on small lots: where there are existing recorded lots
which do not meet the minimum lot area requirement and are under separate
ownership. Single-family dwellings may be constructed as long as a side yard
shall be not less than four feet and the sum of the side yards shall be not
less than 12 feet and as long as all other requirements, except lot size, are
met.
      (6)   Principal uses without building: where a permitted use of land
involves no structures, such use, excluding agricultural uses, shall
nonetheless comply with all yards and minimum lot area requirements applicable
to the district in which located, as well as obtain any other license or permit
applicable to that particular use.
      (7)   Where the dedicated street right-of-way is less than 50 feet, the
depth of the front yard shall be measured starting at a point 25 feet from the
center line of the street easement.
      (8)   No dwelling shall be erected on a lot which does not abut on at
least one street for at least 30 feet. A street shall form the direct and
primary means of ingress and egress for all dwelling units. Alleys, where they
exist, shall form only a secondary means of ingress and egress. A garage
apartment may be built to the rear of a main building if all other provisions
of this chapter are complied with and the apartment dwelling complies with all
applicable building codes.
      (9)   An attached or detached private garage which faces on a street
shall not be located closer than 25 feet to the street right-of-way line,
except that on any corner lot where an existing primary structure does not meet
the setback requirements of the district, a private garage may be constructed
to conform to the lines of the main structure provided:
         (a)   The approval of the building permit substantially adheres to the
purpose and intent of this chapter;
         (b)   The proposed structure is not closer than four feet to any
interior lot line; and
         (c)   The proposed structure meets with all other requirements of the
district.
      (10)   Accessory buildings shall not be located in any required front
yard.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-04) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1016, passed 3- -
2005)
§ 155.049 MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Off-street parking requirements, general. In all districts, except the
General Commercial (GC) District, there shall be provided at any time any
building or structure is erected or enlarged or increased in capacity, off-
street parking space for automobiles in accordance with the following
requirements.
      (1)   Off-street parking for other than residential use shall be either
on the same lot or within 200 feet of the building it is intended to serve,
measured from the nearest point of the building to the nearest point of the
off-street parking lot, without crossing any major thoroughfare.
         (a)   In all districts except General Commercial (GC) shall establish
joint parking facilities where possible, not to exceed 50% of the required
spaces, with institutions and agencies that do not have a time conflict in
parking demand. The joint parking facilities shall be located no further than
400 feet from the facilities’ entrances.
         (b)   In cases of shared off-street parking where operating hours do
not overlap, the Zoning Administrator may grant an exception when the applicant
can show no negative impact to the surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   Residential off-street parking space shall consist of:
         (a)   A parking lot, driveway, garage or combination thereof and shall
be located on the lot they are intended to serve; and
         (b)   Adequate provisions for the off-street parking of any RV,
camper, trailer, boat or other seasonal recreation vehicle that are in the
ownership or possession of the occupant(s) of the building, dwelling or
property.
      (3)   Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall not
be changed to any other use unless and until equal facilities are provided
elsewhere.
      (4)   Off-street parking existing on the effective date of this chapter
in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be
reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building
or use.
      (5)   Two or more buildings or uses may collectively provide the required
off-street parking, in which case the required number of parking spaces shall
be not less than the sum of the requirements for the several individual uses
computed separately.
      (6)   The required off-street parking shall be for occupants, employees,
visitors and patrons and shall be limited in use to motor vehicles. The storage
of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, or the repair of vehicles on such
parking area is prohibited.
      (7)   Every company car, truck, tractor and trailer normally stored at
the property shall be provided with an off-street parking space in an area
reserved for the use as determined by the governing body.
      (8)   For uses not specifically mentioned herein, off-street parking
requirements shall be interpreted by the Zoning Administrator.
      (9)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces shall be determined
in accordance with the following.
         (a)   Dwellings, one-family and two-family: two spaces per dwelling
unit.
         (b)   Dwellings, multi-family: two and two-quarter spaces per dwelling
unit except for senior citizens housing which shall provide one and one-half
spaces per unit.
         (c)   Hotels, motels, rooming houses, bed and breakfast
establishments: one space per guest room.
         (d)   Manufactured home subdivision: two spaces per manufactured home.
         (e)   Nursing homes, long-term care facilities: one space per four
beds.
         (f)   Theaters, auditoriums, gymnasiums: one space per three seats;
convention facilities: one space per 15 square feet of assembly area; multiple-
screen theater: one space per five seats.
         (g)   Churches: one space per four seats.
         (h)   Funeral homes: one space per four seats.
         (i)   Schools, elementary: two spaces per classroom.
         (j)   Schools, other than elementary: ten spaces per classroom.
         (k)   Restaurants, on-sale liquor establishments: one space per 100
square feet of gross floor area.
         (l)   Private and public utility substations, commercial storage
units. No parking requirements except that all areas of ingress/egress and
loading/unloading/storage shall be hard surfaced.
         (m)   Health clinics: single practitioner clinics one space per 300
square feet of gross floor area; multiple practitioner clinics one space per
200 square feet of gross floor area.
         (n)   Industrial and manufacturing establishments: one space per 400
square feet of gross floor area.
         (o)   Warehouses shall provide one parking space per 1,000 square feet
of gross floor area plus one parking space per employee.
         (p)   Group care homes/assisted living and congregate care facilities:
one space for each three residents, one handicapped space, and one space for
each employee on the most fully staffed shift.
         (q)   Office buildings for general business, commercial and personal
service establishments: one space per 200 square feet of gross retail floor
area.
         (r)   Buildings for retail trade: one space per 300 square feet of
gross retail space.
         (s)   Drive-up windows: driveways for drive-up service windows shall
be of sufficient length to accommodate the stacking of three vehicles.
         (t)   Sports and recreation facilities:
            1.   Golf course: six spaces per hole;
            2.   Baseball/softball/soccer: 36 spaces per field;
            3.   Tennis court: four spaces per court;
            4.   Swimming pool/water park: as per a parking plan approved by
the City Council; and
            5.   Bowling alley: four spaces per lane.
         (u)   Fire/ambulance facilities: fire, four spaces per bay; ambulance,
three spaces per bay.
         (v)   New and used vehicle and equipment sales: all areas used for
parking, staging, storage and display shall be paved.
         (w)   Manufactured home sales: based on standard requirements for
permanent structures and sales offices.
   (B)   Off-street parking (driveways and parking lots) construction. For all
new construction, driveways or entrances devoted to or utilized for the
vehicular path of ingress or egress to a place, and all areas devoted to or
utilized for the parking or display of vehicles or equipment, and areas
regularly utilized by employees, customers, patrons or members for parking or
for accessing parking areas, shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with the following regulations.
      (1)   All areas devoted to permanent off-street parking as required under
this section shall be constructed of a hard surface material such as asphalt or
concrete and maintained in such a manner that no dust will result from
continuous use. A paving plan shall be submitted to the Building Official which
shall include:
         (a)   A clear and concise site plan of the property including all
existing buildings;
         (b)   The site plan shall include the names of the owners and their
contact information, name of the business, address and legal description of the
property;
         (c)   All areas of vehicular ingress/egress, travel paths and parking
areas, with dimensioning;
         (d)   Proposed drainage areas and storm water control devices;
         (e)   Proposed areas to be paved to comply with paving requirements
shown in construction details and landscaped areas for storm water control and
climate enhancement;
         (f)   Any proposed lighting in plan showing light fixture locations
and details regarding the proposed light fixtures (make, model, light source
and the like); and
         (g)   The minimum paving area requirements shall include:
            1.   The primary ingress/egress route(s). If there are two
entrances to the building from one street or highway, both shall be required to
be paved;
            2.   The primary driving path(s) to the required parking area;
            3.   The areas devoted to parking as denoted in this section;
            4.   Driveways shall have as minimum: four inches highly compacted
base course with two inches Class G asphalt mat;
            5.   Parking areas shall have as minimum: four inches highly
compacted base course with two inches Class G asphalt mat; and
            6.   Handicap parking spaces shall meet latest revisions of the
Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. and
Architectural Barriers Act Accessibility Guidelines, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4151 et
seq.
      (2)   Except for parcels of land devoted to one- and two-family uses, all
areas devoted to off-street parking shall be so designed and be of such size
that no vehicle is required to back into a public street to obtain egress.
      (3)   Each non-residential parking space shall be not less than 200
square feet in area and shall be a clearly designated stall adequate for one
motor vehicle, but shall be sufficient for the type of motor vehicles it is
intended to serve.
      (4)   In any determination of parking requirements as set forth in this
section, where the resultant figure contains a fraction, any fraction less than
one-half may be dropped and any fraction of one-half or more shall be counted
as one parking space.
      (5)   The parking lot shall be designed to eliminate surface water and
shall comply with the requirements of the city’s erosion and sediment control
ordinance, Chapter 152.
      (6)   New and used car lots, and lots used for the display of farm,
industrial or commercial equipment for sale or rent, shall be constructed of a
hard surface material such as asphalt or concrete and maintained in such a
manner that no dust will result from continuous use.
      (7)   A minimum five-foot wide landscape buffer strip is required between
public sidewalks and off-street parking stalls, parking lots and parking lot
access driveways that run parallel to a public sidewalk. The purpose of the
buffer is to provide separation between vehicles and pedestrians; to allow the
opportunity for vegetation including street trees to be incorporated into our
community to provide shade, storm water uptake and aesthetic improvements; and
to increase community pride. A waiver of this requirement will be considered if
the proposed development is within the downtown area where the sidewalk is
directly adjacent to the curbs.
         (a)   The landscape buffer shall be designed so that there is a mix of
live plant material and rock, gravel and the like, with not more than ten feet
in any direction without plant cover or tree canopy. The buffer shall be
visually distinct from the adjacent sidewalk and discourage vehicles from
driving over the sidewalk.
         (b)   Areas within the public right-of-way may be included in the
five-foot dimension.
         (c)   This requirement does not apply to the following:
            1.   A standard residential driveway that provides access to a
garage, carport or uncovered parking space located on private property;
            2.   A driveway needed to cross the buffer strip to provide access
from the street to parking stalls; or
            3.   Parking that is located within the public right-of-way
boulevard, where approved.
      (8)   For existing uses, excluding one- and two-family residences and new
businesses within the GC Zone, that are undergoing a modification, change or
alteration to the existing structure, and who do not have a hard surface
driveway or paved off-street parking area, a plan shall be provided that shows
areas of pavement not to exceed 10% of the cost of the proposed improvements
that will move the property into compliance with these regulations. (See also §
155.045(C), landscape requirements.)
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-05) (Ord. 1163, passed 3-7- 2016)
§ 155.050 STORAGE AND PARKING OF VEHICLES, TRAILERS AND EQUIPMENT.
   Commercial vehicles shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a
dwelling or on any lot in any residential district except in accordance with
the following provisions.
   (A)   Not more than two commercial vehicles per family living on the
premises which do not exceed one and one-half tons rated capacity (per
vehicle), shall be permitted; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used
for hauling explosives, gasoline or liquified petroleum products be permitted.
   (B)   Vehicles and trailers of all types, including travel, boat, camping
and hauling, shall not be parked or stored between the back of curb and the
adjacent property line along any substantially improved street.
   (C)   In any required front or side yard, with the exception of temporary
parking in a garage or carport driveway, it shall be prohibited to park or
store, or to provide for the parking or storing, of any:
      (1)   Motorized or wheeled vehicle or equipment;
      (2)   Partially dismantled, non-operating or unlicensed vehicle;
      (3)   Air, land or water recreational equipment; or
      (4)   Any other discarded items or materials.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-06)
§ 155.051 SIGNS, BILLBOARDS AND OTHER ADVERTISING STRUCTURES.
   By virtue of its Southern Black Hills location with its pristine vistas and
the unique sandstone architecture of its historic district, the city has
determined that, for the general welfare of its citizens and to protect and to
further promote the historic significance of the city, consideration of signage
aesthetics shall be a primary determinant in the review and permitting of all
signs in the city. The purpose of this section shall be to establish effective
local regulation of outdoor advertising. It is intended to provide for the
convenience of the traveling public, for the promotion of locally available
facilities, goods and services, and to minimize any negative impact on adjacent
properties. It is also attempting to pursue a reasonable number of and
placement of signs and billboards.
   (A)   In any area where advertising signs are permitted, all applicable
state and federal regulations shall apply. In addition, any business sign or
advertising sign erected within areas referred to as natural or scenic beauty,
areas of historical interest, or other areas within the city referenced within
this chapter or attachments, or resolutions to this chapter, not including
state highways or roads and commercial lots with an approved on-premises
business sign shall be required to conform to the following regulations:
      (1)   Advertising signs shall not be located in any area designated by
the governing body as one of historical interest except as provided in the
Historic Preservation District Ordinance.
      (2)   Advertising signs shall not be located in any area designated by
the governing body as one of scenic beauty or natural attractions. Such areas
shall be approved by the City Council and listed or illustrated by an attached
map and/or described by common name. This registry, list or map may be reviewed
at any time by the governing body at which time areas under review may be added
to or deleted from the natural or scenic area designation.
      (3)   Off-premises advertising signs or billboards may be permitted
through use permitted on review procedure in accordance with §
155.073. Construction of off-premises signs shall be regulated through the
building permit process.
      (4)   Roof signs shall be architecturally integrated into the roof
structure design and in no case extend above the building roof line.
      (5)   On-premises business signs in General Commercial, Golf Course
Commercial and Mixed Use Districts advertising the business on that specific
site shall be limited to:
         (a)   Double-sided pole, monument or projecting signs, of which none
shall exceed 25 square feet in size (50 square feet aggregate sign area); and
         (b)   Wall mounted sign(s), the areas of which shall not exceed 25
square feet for each 25 feet of street frontage. Where the provisions of
division (A)(4)(a) above are not used, the wall sign allowance shall be two
square feet of sign space per one lineal foot of commercial street frontage. A
wall sign may project not more than six inches from the storefront.
         (c)   In no case shall any one sign exceed 50 square feet in aggregate
area, except that an on-premises billboard may be permitted through use
permitted on review procedure in accordance with §
155.073.
         (d)   In no case shall any combination of signage exceed two square
feet of sign space per one lineal foot of commercial street frontage, except
that no bonafide business shall not have less than 50 square feet of sign space
allotted to them.
         (e)   Signs shall be placed adjacent to the street upon which the sign
allowance was calculated.
         (f)   On-premises pole signs shall not be placed closer than 51 feet
to any other pole sign.
         (g)   Signage for customary home occupations as regulated in division
(A)(8) of this section.
         (h)   Exceptions:
            1.   Fuel stations, hotel/motels and restaurants in GC zones may
comply with Highway Service sign regulations for reader-type signs.
            2.   Sign structures housing signs for multiple businesses shall be
considered a commercial structure and regulated through the building permit
process.
      (6)   On-premises business signs in Highway Service and Industrial
Districts advertising the business on that specific site shall be limited to:
         (a)   Pole signs, not to exceed 20 square feet of aggregate sign area,
provided that pole signs do not exceed 30 feet in height.
         (b)   Monument signs, not to exceed 50 square feet in size, exclusive
of the supporting elements, provided that no part of the sign or structure
exceeds six feet in height and complies with the corner lot provisions of §
155.048(B)(1).
         (c)   No sign or element thereof shall be constructed closer than five
feet to any property line.
         (d)   Wall mounted or projecting sign(s) shall be limited to two
square feet of sign space per one lineal feet of commercial street frontage. A
wall sign may project not more than six inches from the storefront.
         (e)   In no case shall any sign exceed 50 square feet in size,
exclusive of the supporting elements, with the exception of pole signs which
shall not exceed 100 square feet in size.
         (f)   In no case shall any combination of signage exceed two square
feet of sign space per one lineal foot of commercial street frontage, except
that no bonafide business shall not have less than 50 square feet of sign space
allotted to them.
         (g)   Signs shall be placed adjacent to the street upon which the sign
allowance was calculated.
         (h)   On-premises pole signs shall not be placed closer than 51 feet
to any other pole sign.
         (i)   Monument signs shall not be placed closer than 76 feet to any
other monument sign.
         (j)   Note: These provisions allow for pole/monument sign combinations
and multiple advertisements on a single sign face or sign pole. Engineering
data is required for all pole sign structures.
         (k)   Exceptions:
            1.   Company emblems, logos and trademark names architecturally
designed into fuel station canopies do not count towards the aggregate sign
area.
            2.   Sign structures housing signs for multiple businesses, such as
a mall or shopping complex, shall be considered a commercial structure and
shall be regulated through the building permit process.
      (7)   All illuminated off- and on-premises signs or billboards shall be
equipped with lighting fixtures designed and mounted in such a manner to only
illuminate the sign or billboard face. At no time shall the light source be
allowed to shine or reflect into or on any residential dwellings within 250
feet of the sign or billboard. All effort must be made to avoid illuminating
the ground, other objects and the sky, and must not adversely impact adjacent
properties or streets.
      (8)   Business signs which direct attention to a home occupation, where
such is permitted, shall not exceed four square feet in area, and shall be
limited to one such sign per approved home occupation use. No sign shall be
placed closer than 20 feet to any property line abutting a street.
      (9)   Churches, hospitals, clinics or similar occupancies in residential
districts shall not exceed 32 square feet in area. Such sign shall be either a
wall sign or a ground sign and shall not be constructed, placed or erected at
or near any intersection such that it would violate the 25-foot sight triangle
at intersections.
      (10)   In any area within the jurisdiction of the city, the following
signs shall be allowed:
         (a)   For each permitted or required parking area that has a capacity
of more than four cars: one sign not more than four square feet in area,
designating each entrance to or exit from such parking area; and one sign, not
more than four square feet in area, identifying or designating the conditions
of use of such parking area.
         (b)   One non-illuminated “For Sale” or “For Rent” sign not exceeding
16 square feet in area and advertising the sale, rental or lease of the
premises on which the sign is located. Sign may not exceed 48 inches in width
or height.
         (c)   For each real estate subdivision that has been approved in
accordance with the regulations of the city, one sign per entrance, not over
100 square feet in area, advertising the sale of property in such subdivision.
Permits for such signs shall be issued for a two-year period and may be renewed
for additional two-year periods.
         (d)   For construction on or development of a lot, signs not more than
12 square feet in area, stating the names of contractors, engineers or
architects, but only during the time that construction or development is
actively underway.
         (e)   Seasonal on-premises advertising signs, for agricultural
products raised and/or cultivated on that land, not to exceed 12 square feet in
area.
         (f)   Political or campaign signs. Political signs must be removed
within five days following such election, unless the candidate is involved with
on-going subsequent elections in which the sign is intended to influence.
         (g)   Small directional signs shall not be greater than 18 inches by
24 inches rectangular or 18 inches in diameter. Directional signs shall require
approval from the Zoning Administrator.
         (h)   Signs established by, or by order of, any governmental agency.
      (11)   Temporary signs.
         (a)   All temporary signs shall be placed, built, erected or moved
onto site location in such a manner as to be easily removed.
         (b)   Real estate signs, garage sale signs and political signs may be
placed within the right-of-way of a city street subject to the following
conditions.
            1.   Signs face shall not exceed 24 inches by 24 inches in area.
            2.   Signs shall not exceed 36 inches in height.
            3.   Signs shall not be placed within four feet of any improved
street or within ten feet of the traveled path of any unimproved street.
            4.   Signs shall not be placed in any unsafe manner.
            5.   These provisions do not apply to state rights-of-way.
         (c)   Temporary off-premises signs for special events, such as
benefits, festivals or similar activity are allowed ten days prior to any
lawful event and must be removed from premises within two business days of
conclusion of the event. Temporary signs must substantially conform to the
regulations within this chapter.
         (d)   Temporary on-premises business signs may be placed in lieu of a
permanent on-premises sign provided that a sign permit for a permanent on-
premises sign has been applied for and the placement of the temporary on-
premises sign complies with all other provisions of this chapter and is not
placed on the premises for a length of time greater than 60 days from the date
of the sign application.
         (e)   The following items shall be considered on all temporary signs.
            1.   Banners which hang across public property shall have prior
approval from the city.
            2.   All signs, whether attached to vehicle, pole or other
structures shall be in such a manner that it will not endanger life or safety
of others.
            3.   Signs placed within any right-of-way or on any public property
or attached to any traffic sign, power pole or fire hydrant, which is placed in
any manner that impedes or endangers pedestrian or vehicular traffic, shall be
subject to immediate removal by the city. Such signs removed may be retrieved
at City Hall for a fee in an amount as set by the City Council from time to
time each payable to the City Finance Officer. Signs not retrieved within 30
days will be discarded.
            4.   May not create visibility problems or interfere with line of
sight with any traffic sign or official signs.
            5.   Shall substantially adhere to this chapter except where noted
otherwise.
            6.   Attention-attracting devices must be approved by the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall consider the type of device,
location and time duration proposed along with any other pertinent information.
            7.   Freestanding portable signs (mobile signs), and temporary
electronic signs that will be used for grand openings or special events, must
be pre-approved by the Zoning Administrator.
            8.   Garage/yard sale signs do not require a permit, but shall not
be placed longer than three days prior to the event and shall be removed
immediately following the event.
      (12)   Off-premises signs shall not be constructed to resemble any
official marker erected by a governmental entity, or which by reason of
position, shape or color would conflict with the proper functioning of any
official traffic control device, sign or marker.
      (13)   Signs shall not overhang into or be placed in a dedicated public
right-of-way, except as allowed by that governmental entity having jurisdiction
over that right-of-way.
      (14)   Signs shall not overhang into or over adjoining property, without
proof of written approval by that adjoining property owner.
      (15)   Any non-commercial vehicle bearing commercial advertisement shall
be considered off-premises signage and off-premises advertising.
      (16)   Vehicle roof mounted signs shall not exceed two square feet.
   (B)   Application and permitting.
      (1)   Off-premises application.
         (a)   All off-premises signs and billboards shall be subject to the
use permitted on review requirements in §
155.073 of the city code of ordinances. Application shall be on a form provided
by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   All other sign applications shall be made on a form provided by
the Zoning Administrator and shall adhere to the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Fees. One-time fee shall be assessed per each issued sign permit as
follows:
 
Sign Type         Fee
Temporary sign    No fee
On-premises sign  Amount as set by the City Council from time to time
Sign structure    Building permit fee + an amount as set by the City Council
                  from time to time/sign
Off-premises sign Use permit fee + building permit fee
Political signs, garage sale signs and directional signs, as defined in this
section, are exempt from fees
 
   (C)   Unsafe and unlawful signs. Whenever it shall be determined by the
Zoning Administrator that any sign or billboard has been constructed or erected
or is being maintained in violation of the terms of this section, or is unsafe,
insecure or deteriorated, such sign shall either be made to conform with all
sign regulations as provided by this section or shall be removed within 30
calendar days after written notification thereof by the Zoning Administrator.
Such sign shall be removed at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof. If
the Zoning Administrator finds that any billboard or sign has deteriorated more
than 50% of its replacement value or is not repaired within the time specified
in the notice of violation, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner of
the sign or billboard and the owner of the real property on which the sign or
billboard is located, to remove the sign or billboard from the property at the
sign or billboard owner’s expense within a specified period of time stated on
the notice of violation. Signs which advertise an activity, business or service
which has been out of business for 90 days, must remove the sign within or by
the end of the 90-day period.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-07) (Ord. 964, passed 2- -2000; Ord. 1038, passed 9- -
2006)
§ 155.052 GASOLINE SERVICE AND FILLING STATIONS.
   (A)   The following regulations shall apply to all gasoline service
stations.
      (1)   There shall be a building setback from all right-of-way lines a
distance of not less than 40 feet.
      (2)   Service stations shall not be constructed closer than 50 feet to
any residential district.
      (3)   The minimum distance between the intersection of right-of-way lines
at a corner lot and the driveway to a service station shall be not less than 40
feet.
      (4)   A raised curb at least six inches in height shall be constructed on
all street property lines, except at driveway openings.
      (5)   The length of curb openings shall not exceed 30 feet.
      (6)   When two curb openings are giving access to a single street, they
shall be separated by an island with a minimum dimension of 25 feet at both the
edge of the pavement and the right-of-way line. Curb cuts for driveways shall
not be located closer than ten feet to any adjoining property line.
      (7)   To insure that sufficient room be provided on either side of the
pumps without intruding upon sidewalks or on adjoining property, gasoline pumps
shall not be located closer than 50 feet from any residential district.
      (8)   Gasoline pumps shall not be located closer than 15 feet to any
street right-of-way line.
      (9)   Landscape requirements, aesthetic barriers and screening
requirements shall be regulated in accordance with §
155.045.
      (10)   Off-street parking shall be as regulated in §
155.049.
   (B)   Signs shall be as regulated in §
155.051.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-08)
§ 155.053 CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   This section defines customary home occupations and prescribes the
conditions under which such occupation shall be permitted.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to:
         (a)   Protect residential areas from the adverse impact of excessive
traffic, nuisance, noise and other possible effects of commercial activities
within residential neighborhoods; and
         (b)   Provide residents the option to use their residences for certain
home occupations without altering the residential character of the
neighborhood.
      (2)   Customary home occupations.
         (a)   A customary home occupation is a gainful occupation or
profession conducted by members of a family residing on the premises and
conducted entirely within the dwelling. In connection with a home occupation,
no stock in trade shall be displayed outside the dwelling, and no alteration to
any building shall indicate from the exterior that the building is being
utilized in whole or in part for any purpose other than a residential unit,
including permitted accessory buildings.
         (b)   Public access to the home occupation shall be by invitation or
appointment only and shall not account for any appreciable increase in vehicle
and/or pedestrian traffic.
         (c)   Delivery of products to the home for business purposes shall not
occur more frequently than twice a week. Delivery by trucks or vehicles not
ordinarily utilized for residential deliveries shall be prohibited.
         (d)   Limited retail sales shall be directly associated with, and
subordinate to, the permitted home occupation.
         (e)   No exterior display or signage shall be allowed. Advertising
associated with the home occupation shall not include the physical address.
         (f)   Applicants shall provide a copy of their sales tax license to
the city.
         (g)   The following occupations, subject to the requirements of the
division (A)(2) above are customary home occupations:
            1.   Artist, sculptor, author;
            2.   Barbershop and beauty shop operated by only two members of the
residence;
            3.   Dressmaker, milliner, seamstress, tailor, interior decorator;
            4.   Professional office of a physician, massage therapist,
dentist, lawyer, engineer, architect or accountant within a dwelling occupied
by the same provided that not more than one paid assistant shall be employed;
that adequate approved off-street parking be made available;
            5.   Teaching, including tutoring, musical instruction or dancing;
            6.   Not more than 25% of the floor area in the structure can be
used for customary home occupation; and
            7.   Any other similar use which the governing body deems to be a
home occupation, to include bed and breakfast operations as defined in §
155.002;
   (B)   Exemptions:
      (1)   Activities conducted entirely within the residence, such as
internet transactions or stock market transactions from a home office, which
does not account for any vehicle or pedestrian traffic pertaining to that
activity, and where there is no outward display of that activity, shall be
exempt from the requirements of §
155.073; and
      (2)   Garage sales, yard sales, rummage sales. Garage, yard and rummage
sales shall be exempt from the permit process provided they meet the following
standards.
         (a)   Sales shall last no longer than three days.
         (b)   Sales shall be held no more than six times per year.
         (c)   Sales are conducted on the owner’s property or one of the
owner’s properties in case of a multiparty sale.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-09)
§ 155.054 TEMPORARY USES.
   The regulations contained in this section are necessary to govern the
operation of certain transitory or seasonal uses, nonpermanent in nature.
   (A)   Application for a temporary use permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A survey or legal description of the property to be used, rented or
leased for a temporary use, including all information necessary to accurately
portray the property;
      (2)   A description of the proposed use; and
      (3)   Sufficient information to determine the yard requirements,
setbacks, sanitary facilities and availability of parking space to service the
proposed use.
   (B)   The following uses are deemed to be temporary uses and shall also be
subject to the specific regulations and time limits which follow and to the
regulations of any district in which such use is located.
      (1)   Carnival or circus. In any non-residential district, a temporary
use permit may be issued for a carnival or circus, but such permit shall be
issued for a period not longer than 15 days. Such a use shall set back from all
residential districts a distance of 100 feet or more.
      (2)   Temporary buildings. In any district, a temporary use permit may be
issued for contractor’s temporary office and equipment sheds incidental to a
construction project. If such temporary building(s) contain sleeping or cooking
accommodations, then before such permit may be issued, such intended use must
first be subject to a public hearing and approved by the City Council as
outlined under §
155.073, Procedure for Authorizing Uses Permitted on Review. All such temporary
building permits shall be valid for not more than one year but may be renewed a
maximum of two one-year extensions. However, all temporary buildings shall be
removed upon completion of the construction project or upon expiration of the
temporary use permit, whichever occurs sooner.
      (3)   Real estate sales office. In any district, a temporary use permit
may be issued for a temporary real estate office in any approved new
subdivision. Such office shall contain no sleeping or cooking accommodations.
Such permit shall be valid for not more than one year, but may be renewed a
maximum of three one-year extensions. Such office shall be removed or converted
to a conforming use upon completion of the development of the subdivision or
upon expiration of the temporary use permit, whichever occurs sooner.
      (4)   Non-permanent structures. Non-permanent structures in conjunction
with or accessory to, and on the same property as, a permanently established
business, such as service kiosks, coffee kiosks or similar structures. Such
uses shall be considered under the provisions of §
155.073.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-10)
§ 155.055 TENTS, CAMPERS; CAMPING.
   No tent or camper shall be used, erected or maintained as living quarters.
Overnight camping is permitted on lands established for camping purposes, and
in private campgrounds, where permitted in districts of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-11)
§ 155.056 LIGHTING, OUTSIDE.
   Lighting of all types shall be directed so as to reflect from all
residential districts, and shall be so situated so as not to reflect directly
onto any public rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-12)
§ 155.057 ANIMAL MANURE NUISANCE.
   In any district, animal manure, as defined in this code, in any appreciable
amount that is kept, piled, stored or stockpiled shall be considered a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-06-12)
§ 155.058 CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   Maximum number of cannabis dispensaries.
      (1)   In the development and execution of these regulations, it is
recognized that there are some uses which because of their very nature, are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances
thereby having a potential deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas. Special
regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these adverse effects will
not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood.
The primary control or regulation is for the purpose of preventing a
concentration of these uses in any one area.
      (2)   The City of Hot Springs shall allow no more than one cannabis
dispensaries per 1,500 residents, based on the latest U.S. Census, cannabis
dispensaries provided the time, place, and manner of said dispensaries comply
with this section.
   (B)   Required separation distances. A cannabis dispensary shall be located
not less than 1,000 feet from a public or private school existing before the
date of the cannabis dispensary application.
   (C)   Other locational requirements.
      (1)   Permanent or temporary dispensaries are prohibited in all other
zoning districts and not eligible for a home occupation use.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate a dispensary in a building which
contains a residence or a mixed-use building with commercial and residential
uses.
   (D)   Controlled access. No cannabis establishment shall share premises with
or permit access directly from another medical cannabis establishment, business
that sells alcohol or tobacco, or, if allowed by law, other cannabis
establishment.
   (E)   Hours of operation. Cannabis dispensaries are allowed to be open
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday and
between 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Saturday.
   (F)   Documentation of state licensure. No cannabis dispensary shall
acquire, possess, store, deliver transfer, transport, supply or dispense
cannabis, cannabis products, or paraphernalia without providing documentation
of licensure from the State of South Dakota.
   (G)   The zoning official is authorized to issue permits (building/use) for
cannabis dispensaries subject to following:
      (1)   Submission of a site plan containing the following:
         (a)   Any information required for applicable building permit;
         (b)   Ingress and egress plan;
         (c)   Parking plan;
         (d)   Lighting plan (including security lighting);
         (e)   Screening/security fencing plan;
         (f)   Refuse plan;
         (g)   Hours of operation;
         (h)   Any other information as lawfully may be required by the Zoning
Official to determine compliance with this section.
      (2)   Documentation of ability to meet setback/separation requirements.
      (3)   Documentation of state licensure.
   (H)   All cannabis establishments are required to be constructed in
conformance with the most recently adopted edition of the International
Building Code and International Fire Code.
(Ord. 1235, passed 10-4-2021)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.070 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   Administrative official. An administrative official, hereafter
known as the Zoning Administrator, designated by the City Council shall
administer and enforce this chapter. He or she may be provided with the
assistance of such other person as the City Council may deem necessary for the
successful enforcement of this chapter. Should the Zoning Administrator find
that any of the provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall
notify, in writing, the party or parties responsible for such violations,
indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to
correct the violation. He or she shall order discontinuance of illegal use of
land; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions,
alterations or structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being
done; or shall take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure
compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
      (2)   Building permits required. No building or other structure shall be
erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, improved, moved or
demolished without a permit having been issued by the Building Official, except
those projects specifically exempted by ordinance. No building permit shall be
issued except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, unless he or
she receives a written order from the Board of Adjustment in the form of an
administrative review, special exception or variance as provided by this
chapter.
      (3)   Application for building permit.
         (a)   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by
two sets of plans showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be
built upon, the exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already
existing, if any, and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or
alteration. A third complete set of construction plans shall be submitted for
new construction.
         (b)   The application shall include such other information as lawfully
may be required by the Building Official, including existing or proposed
buildings or alterations, existing or proposed uses of buildings and land, the
number of families, housekeeping units or rental units the building is designed
to accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and such other matters as may
be necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of,
this chapter.
         (c)   One copy of the plans, bearing the building permit number, the
review date and stamped as “reviewed,” shall be returned to the applicant by
the Building Official and one copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be
provided to the subcontractor responsible for the construction of the
foundation, where applicable, and one copy shall be kept on file in the office
of the Building Official for a period of three years from the date of the
issuance of the building permit, commercial documents shall be kept for a
period of five years.
      (4)   Expiration of building permit. If the work described in any
building permit has not begun within six months from the date of issuance
thereof, said permit shall expire; it shall be canceled by the Building
Official; and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, if
the work described in any building permit has not been completed within two
years of the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and be canceled
by the Building Official, and written notice thereof shall be given to the
persons affected, together with notice that further work as described in the
canceled permit shall not proceed unless and until a new building permit has
been obtained. Uncompleted projects that have not obtained a new building
permit shall be deemed a dangerous building and shall be ordered to be removed
or demolished to the point where they are not a public nuisance, public danger
or considered a blight on the neighborhood by the governing body.
      (5)   Construction and use to be as provided in applications, plans and
permits. Building permits issued on the basis of plans and applications
approved by the Building Official authorize only the use, arrangement and
construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and on other
use, arrangement or construction. Use, arrangement or construction at variance
with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   The governing body, except as otherwise provided in SDCL § 11-4-13,
shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment, hereinafter
referred to as the “Board.” The Board shall consist of five members, each a
resident of the City of Hot Springs. The members and alternates shall be
appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. Each member is
appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the governing
body upon written charges and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled
for the unexpired term only.
      (2)   The Board shall elect a Chairperson from its membership, shall
appoint a Secretary, and shall prescribe rules for the conduct of its affairs.
Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson, and at such
other times as the Board may determine at a fixed time and place. All meetings
of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record. It shall have
power to call on any other departments for assistance in the performance of its
duties, and it shall be the duty of such other departments to render all such
assistance as may be reasonably required. In the case of all appeals, the Board
shall call upon the governing body for all information pertinent to, and their
recommendations.
   (C)   Powers of the Board of Adjustment. The Chairperson, or in his or her
absence, the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses, and in the furtherance of their duties shall have the following
powers.
      (1)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals wherein
it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of this
chapter or of any ordinance adopted pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   To hear and decide special exception to the terms of the ordinance
upon which such Board is required to pass under such ordinance.
      (3)   To authorize upon appeal in specific areas such variance from terms
of the ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing
to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance
will result in unnecessary hardship and so that the spirit of the ordinance
shall be observed and substantial justice done.
   (D)   Appeal procedures to the Board.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the municipality
affected by any decision of the administrative officer in the enforcement of
this chapter or of any ordinance adopted pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided
from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board, the notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
      (4)   An appeal to the Board stays all proceedings in the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken shall file a certificate
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his or her
opinion cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted
by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record, on application, on notice
to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties
in interest and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any
party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
      (6)   In exercising the powers mentioned, the Board of Adjustment may, in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as
ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from
whom the appeal is taken.
      (7)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any such
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under any such ordinance, or to effect any
variation in such ordinance.
   (E)   City Council. In lieu of appointing a Board of Adjustment, the City
Council of this city may act as and perform all the duties and exercise the
powers of such Board of Adjustment as provided in SDCL § 11-4-24.
   (F)   Governing body. The governing body shall:
      (1)   Establish such rules of procedure as are necessary to the
performance of its function hereunder;
      (2)   Review and decide all applications for uses permitted on review in
accordance with §
155.073; and
      (3)   Study and report on all proposed amendments to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-08-01) (Ord. 1210, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 155.071 VARIANCES.
   The purpose of the variance is to modify the strict application of the
specific requirements of this chapter in the case of exceptionally irregular,
narrow, shallow or steep lots, or other exceptional physical conditions,
whereby such strict application would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship which would deprive an owner of the reasonable use of his
land; the variance shall be used only where necessary to overcome some obstacle
which is preventing an owner from using his or her lot as the zoning ordinance
intended.
   (A)   Application procedure.
      (1)   A property owner may make application for a variance using forms
available from the Zoning Administrator. Fees, as set forth in §
155.075, shall accompany the application.
      (2)   The applicant shall, by certified mail, notify all property owners
within 200 feet of the subject property, exclusive of rights-of-way, as to the
nature of the variance request and the time and date and location at which the
request will be considered. A list of those property owners and their mailing
addresses shall be provided to the City Finance Officer prior to the public
hearing on the matter.
      (3)   Upon application for a variance, the applicant shall place a sign,
provided by the city, on the property in clear view of the street identifying
that the property is being considered for a zoning variance. The sign shall be
placed on the structure or post not less than ten days prior to the public
hearing on the matter and shall remain until a decision on the request has been
made.
      (4)   Upon receipt of the application, legal notice shall be published in
the city’s official newspaper of the date, time and place of the public hearing
at least ten days prior to the hearing.
      (5)   The Board shall issue its decision within 30 days of the hearing,
except that the applicant may request a continuance.
   (B)   Standards for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall be granted only where special circumstances or
conditions (such as exceptional narrowness, topography or siting) fully
described in the finding of the Board, do not apply generally in the district.
      (2)   Variances shall not be granted to allow a use otherwise excluded
from the particular district in which requested.
      (3)   For reasons fully set forth in the findings of the Board, the
aforesaid circumstances or conditions are such that the strict application of
the provisions of this chapter would deprive the applicants of any reasonable
use of their land. Mere loss in value shall not justify a variance; there must
be a deprivation of beneficial use of land.
      (4)   Any variance granted under the provisions of this section shall be
the minimum adjustment necessary for the reasonable use of the land.
      (5)   The granting of any variance is in harmony with the general
purposes and intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood, detrimental to the public welfare or in conflict with the
comprehensive plan for development.
   (C)   Requirements for the granting of a variance. Before the Board shall
have the authority to grant a variance, the persons claiming the variance have
the burden of showing:
      (1)   The granting of the permit will not be contrary to the public
interest;
      (2)   The literal enforcement of this chapter will result in unnecessary
hardship;
      (3)   That by granting the permit contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, the spirit of this chapter will be observed;
      (4)   By granting the permit, substantial justice will be done.
   (D)   Denial of variance. In the event the request for a variance is denied
by the Board, reapplication shall not be permitted for a period of one year,
unless the Zoning Administrator determines that the circumstances surrounding
the request have substantially changed.
   (E)   Court review. Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by any
decision of the Board may appeal the decision to the Circuit Court. Appeals
must be made within 30 days of the decision of the Board. See §
155.076.
   (F)   Costs. Costs shall not be allowed against the Board unless it shall
appear to the court that the Board acted with gross negligence or in bad faith
or with malice in making the decision appealed from.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-08-02)
§ 155.072 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No new building shall be occupied and no change in occupancy or use of a
building or part of a building shall be made unless the Building Official has
issued a certificate of occupancy therefor as regulated by the International
Building Codes as adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-08-03)
§ 155.073 PROCEDURE FOR AUTHORIZING USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW.
   The following procedure is established to integrate properly the uses
permitted on review with other land uses located in the district; these uses
shall be reviewed by the governing body and authorized or rejected under the
following procedure.
   (A)   Application procedure.
      (1)   A property owner may make application to the City Council for a use
permitted on review using forms available from the Zoning Administrator. Fees,
as set forth in §
155.075, shall accompany the application.
      (2)   The applicant shall, by certified mail, notify all property owners
within 200 feet of the subject property, exclusive of rights-of-way, as to the
nature of the use permit request and the time and date and location at which
the request will be considered. A list of those property owners and their
mailing addresses shall be provided to the City Finance Officer prior to the
hearing.
      (3)   Upon application for a use permit, the applicant shall place a
sign, provided by the city, on the property in clear view of the street
identifying that the property is being considered for a use permit variance.
The sign shall be placed on the structure or post not less than ten days prior
to the public hearing on the matter and shall remain until a decision on the
request has been made.
      (4)   Legal notice shall be published in the city’s official newspaper of
the date, time and place of the public hearing at least ten days prior to the
hearing.
      (5)   The City Council shall issue its decision within 30 days of the
hearing, except that the applicant may request a continuance not to exceed 60
days.
   (B)   Requirements for submission.
      (1)   An applicant shall submit the documents necessary to convey to the
City Council the entirety of the proposed use, including:
         (a)   The location and legal description of the property;
         (b)   Position, size and use of all structures, improvements and
facilities to be constructed or reconstructed including new use floor layouts;
         (c)   If applicable, landscape, lighting and drainage plan;
         (d)   Parking, off-street parking plan;
      (2)   In consideration of a request for a use permitted on review, the
Council may take into account factors including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Conformance with the goals and policies of the comprehensive
plan;
         (b)   Compatibility with existing and potential permitted uses in
proximity to the proposed use;
         (c)   Public safety issues relating to projected traffic generated by
the proposed use;
         (d)   Community benefit of the proposed use;
         (e)   Aesthetic considerations related to the scope and size of the
proposed use; and
         (f)   Adequacy of public services for the proposed use.
      (3)   The City Council shall issue its decision within 30 days; except
that the applicant may request a continuance not to exceed 60 days.
      (4)   The City Council may impose such conditions regarding the location,
character or other features of the proposed use or buildings as it may deem
advisable in the furtherance of the general purposes of this chapter. An
approved use permit shall be implemented within six months from the date of
approval unless otherwise expressly requested by the applicant and approved by
Council. Any use permit not implemented within that specified time period will
be deemed a discontinued use and the use permit shall be void.
         (a)   Any approved use permitted by a use permit that has been
suspended or discontinued for 12 continuous months shall be deemed a
discontinued use and the use permit shall be void.
         (b)   Additional landscaping, screening, facade improvements,
architectural light and similar improvements may be required by the Council to
ensure the special use blends into the zone and does not cause any blight, or
negative impacts on neighbors.
      (5)   Denial of request. In the event the request for a use on review is
denied by the City Council, reapplication shall not be permitted for a period
of one year, unless the Zoning Administrator determines that there has been a
substantial change in circumstance surrounding the request.
      (6)   Failure to comply with any of the requirements of the use on review
approval is cause for action by the Council to suspend or rescind the approval
and legal action may be taken as stated in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-08-04) (Ord. 1172, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 155.074 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions, boundaries and options set forth in this
chapter may be amended, supplemented, revised or repealed from time to time as
conditions warrant, subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   Text or map amendments. Proposed amendments shall:
      (1)   Be necessary because of substantially changed or changing
conditions of the area and district affected, or in the ordinance generally;
      (2)   Be consistent with the intent and purposes of the ordinance;
      (3)   Not directly or indirectly adversely affect any other part of the
ordinance;
      (4)   Be consistent with and not in conflict with the Hot Springs
Comprehensive Plan;
      (5)   Errors or oversights as may be found in the ordinance as originally
adopted shall be corrected under the normal amendment procedure; and
      (6)   No new zoning district shall be created to contain an area of less
than four acres. The four acres need not be under common ownership.
   (B)   Text amendment request. Text amendment requests shall be filed with
the Zoning Administrator. Requests may be initiated by the Commission, City
Council or the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   General. The proposed amendment shall be presented at a regularly
scheduled meeting of the Commission, at which time the Commission may initiate
a study of the amendment. If no study is deemed necessary, a public hearing
shall be set.
      (2)   Hearing by the Commission. The Commission shall publish legal
notice not less than ten days prior to the public hearing. At the close of the
public hearing, the Commission shall forward its recommendation to the City
Council.
      (3)   Hearing by City Council. The City Council shall publish once, at
least ten days prior to the hearing, notice of a final public hearing on the
amendment. After taking into account all pertinent information and the
recommendation of the Commission, the City Council may refuse or adopt the
ordinance, with or without amendment.
   (C)   Map amendment request. An application for a map amendment shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator. Rezoning requests may be initiated by
either the property owner or a designated representative, or by an appropriate
governmental agency. If by a designated representative, the designation shall
be in writing, signed by the property owner, and filed with the application.
      (1)   Application. The proposed application shall be presented at a
regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission, at which time the Commission may
initiate a study of the amendment. If no study is deemed necessary, a public
hearing shall be set.
      (2)   Notification procedure. The applicant shall notify by certified
letter, at least ten days in advance of the public hearing, the owners of
equity of all property in the city limits within 200 feet, exclusive of streets
and alleys, from any part of the property subject to the rezoning, of the date,
place and time of the public hearing. Such notification shall fully set forth a
description of the development plan for the property, if any, in the event the
rezoning request is approved.
      (3)   Hearing by the Commission. The Commission shall publish legal
notice not less than ten days prior to the public hearing. At the close of the
public hearing, the Commission shall forward its recommendation to the City
Council.
      (4)   Hearing by City Council. The City Council shall publish once, at
least ten days prior to the hearing, notice of a final public hearing on the
amendment. After taking into account all pertinent information and the
recommendation of the Commission, the City Council may refuse or adopt the
ordinance, with or without amendment.
   (D)   Vacating of streets and alleys.
      (1)   The vacating of unimproved streets and alleys shall be pursuant to
SDCL § 9-45.
      (2)   The vacating of improved streets and alleys shall be pursuant to
SDCL § 9-45 and shall be subject to review by the City Planning and Zoning
Commission in accordance with the §
154.03(D).
      (3)   Streets and alleys may be vacated by the city reserving, however,
any easements and rights-of-way presently existing in said street or alley for
public utility or drainage purposes.
      (4)   The petitioner(s) shall, by certified mail, notify all property
owners within 200 feet of the subject property, exclusive of rights-of-way, as
to the nature of the request and the time and date and location at which the
request will be considered. A list of those property owners and their mailing
addresses shall be provided to the City Finance Officer prior to the public
hearing on the matter.
      (5)   Upon application, the petitioner(s) shall place a sign, provided by
the city, on or adjacent to the street or alley in question, in clear view of
the street identifying that the property is being considered for vacation. The
sign shall be placed no less than ten days prior to the public hearing on the
matter and shall remain until a decision on the request has been made.
   (E)   Time limit and notification.
      (1)   All proposed amendments shall be scheduled for public hearing
within 45 days of receipt of such proposal, unless an extension is mutually
agreed upon by the interested parties.
      (2)   All proposed amendments shall be decided by the governing body
within 60 days of the public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-08-05)
§ 155.075 FEES.
   Fees for all permits required herein, and fees required for filing of
appeals, and fees for applications for amendments to this chapter shall be
established as follows and be collected by the following.
 
Appeals to the Board of Adjustment Amount as set by the City Council from time
                                   to time
Rezoning: map amendment            Amount as set by the City Council from time
                                   to time
Use permit on review
Customary home occupation          Amount as set by the City Council from time
                                   to time
Other use permits                  Amount as set by the City Council from time
                                   to time
Variance requests                  Amount as set by the City Council from time
                                   to time
Zoning text amendment              Amount as set by the City Council from time
                                   to time
 
(Prior Code, § 27-A-08-06)
§ 155.076 PENDING ORDINANCE RULE.
   An applicant may be denied a building permit, business occupancy permit,
plat, re-plat, rezoning application, variance, use on review permit, or other
use of property or for a use allowed by this chapter if, at the time of
application, an amendment is pending, which if adopted, would proscribe the
proposed use.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-08-07)
§ 155.077 CONFLICT.
   In the interpretation and application of the provisions of this chapter,
these provisions shall be held to a minimum requirement adopted for the
promotion of the public health, morals, safety and the general welfare.
Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with the requirements
of other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances, the most
restrictive, or that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-08-10)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter, maintain or
use any building or structure, or to use any land in violation of any
regulation in this chapter. Any person, firm, association or corporation who
violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or resists the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine of an amount as set by the City Council from time
to time, together with the cost of the action. Every day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense. Compliance therewith may also be enforced by
injunctional order at the suit of the petitioner or the owner or owners of real
estate within the district affected by the regulation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 27-A-08-08)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1192     9-17-2018   Grants cable franchise to Golden West Cablevision, Inc.
                     Communications
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Section Code Section
SDCL Section         Code Section
Chapter 1-19A        32.02,
                     32.06
                     32.01,
Chapter 1-19B        32.04,
                     32.06
1-19B-1              32.01
1-19B-2              32.01
1-19B-3              32.04
1-19B-4              32.04
1-19B-8              32.04
1-19B-9              32.04
1-19B-10             32.04
1-19B-11             32.04
1-19B-12             32.04
1-19B-14             32.04
1-19B-15             32.04
1-19B-17             32.04
1-19B-18             32.04
1-19B-19             32.04
1-19B-27             32.05
1-19B-29             32.05
1-19B-30             32.05
1-19B-52             32.08
1-25-2(1)            30.28
Chapter 5-24         30.23
9-1-1                10.02,
                     10.04
9-8-4                30.28
9-8-5                30.28
9-13-13              10.04
9-14-1               30.22
9-14-9               30.23
9-14-17              30.23
9-14-18              30.23
9-14-19              30.23
9-14-21              30.23
9-19-1               10.04
                     10.99 ,
9-19-3               51.99,
                     52.99
9-19-16              10.04
9-19-17              10.04
9-21-20              30.23
9-22-2               30.23
9-22-12              30.23
9-22-18              30.23
9-22-20              30.23
9-22-21              30.23
9-22-22              30.23
9-22-23              30.23
9-23-9               30.23
9-29-13              95.63
9-31-2               70.11
Chapter 9-43         51.13,
                     52.07
9-43-98              30.23
Chapter 9-45         155.074
Chapter 9-55         35.30,
                     35.33
9-55-16              35.35
10-6-35.3            35.16
                     34.01,
                     34.05,
Chapter 10-45        34.07,
                     34.12,
                     34.99
10-45-3.4            34.09
10-45-3.5            34.09
                     34.04,
Chapter 10-46        34.10,
                     34.12,
                     34.99
                     34.01,
Chapter 10-52        34.06,
                     34.08
Chapter 10-52A       34.13
Chapter 11-4         154.01
11-4-13              155.070
11-4-24              155.070
Chapter 11-6         30.27,
                     154.01
11-7-3               35.01
11-7-5               35.02
Chapter 21-10        95.63
22-6-2               32.08
                     10.99 ,
22-6-2(2)            51.99,
                     52.99
Chapter 22-24B       155.004
Chapter 26-6         155.004
26-6-14.11           155.004
26-6-27              155.002
26-8A-10             155.004
Chapter 26-10        155.004
31-8-2               70.11
Chapters 32 - 36     70.08
32-30-12             70.08
32-30-13 to 32-30-18 70.08
32-31-8              93.03
32-35-113            70.08
                     116.03 -
34-20G               116.05,
                     116.10
34-20G-1             116.02,
                     155.002
Title 35             111.01,
                     111.10
35-1-1               34.13,
                     92.12
35-1-5.5             92.12
Chapter 35-4         111.10
35-4-2               111.03
35-4-2(4)            111.07
35-4-2(5)            111.10
35-4-2(6)            111.07
35-4-2(16)           111.10
35-4-118             111.07
35-9-1               111.03
40-34-15             90.07
46-1-11              51.04,
                     51.08
46-6-18              51.14
46-6-27              51.14
                     
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-2                10.04
2-1                30.01
2-2                30.02
2-3                30.03
2-4                30.04
2-5                30.05
2-6                30.06
2-7                30.07
2-8                30.08
2-9                30.09
2-10               30.10
2-11               30.11
2-12               30.12
2-13               30.13
2-24               30.14
2-25               30.15
2-26               30.16
2-28               30.18
2-29               30.19
2-30               30.20
2-31               30.21
2-42               30.22
2-43               30.23
2-54               30.24
2-55               30.25
2-56               30.26
2-61               30.27
2-62               30.27
2-63               30.27
2-64               30.27
2-65               30.27
2-66               30.27
2-67               30.27
2-68               30.27
3A-01              111.01
3A-02              111.02
3A-04              111.03
3A-05              111.04
3A-06              111.05
3A-07              111.06
3A-08              111.07
3A-09              111.08
3A-10              111.09
3A-11              111.10
4-A-01             90.01
4-A-02             90.02
4-A-03             90.03
4-A-04             90.04
4-A-05             90.05
4-A-06             90.06
4-A-07             90.07
4-A-08             90.08
4-A-09             90.99
5-A-01             71.01
5-A-02             71.02
5-A-03             71.03
5-A-04             71.04
5-A-05             71.05
6-A-025            150.02
6-A-030            150.03
6-A-04             150.01
6-A-04-035         150.04
6-A-04-040         150.05
6-A-05-01          150.06
6-30               150.07
7-01               91.01
7-02               91.02
7-03               91.03
7-04               91.04
7-05               91.05
7-06               91.06
7-07               91.07
7-08               91.08
7-09               91.09
7-10               91.10
7-11               91.11
7-12               91.12
7-13               91.13
7-14               91.14
8-1                31.01
8-2                31.02
8-3                31.03
8-4                31.04
8-5                31.05
9-01               93.01
9-02               93.02
9-03               93.03
9-04               93.04
9-05               93.05
9-06               93.06
9-07               93.07
9-08               93.08
10-A-01            50.01
10-A-02            50.02
10-A-03            50.03
10-A-04            50.04
10-A-05            50.05
11-A-01            110.01
11-A-03            110.02,
                   110.15
11-A-04            110.16
11-A-05            110.17
11-A-06            110.18
12-A-01            130.01
12-A-02            130.02
12-A-03            130.03
12-A-04            130.04
12-A-04-02         130.05
12-A-05            130.06
12-A-06            130.07
13-A-01            151.01
13-A-02            151.02
13-A-03            151.03
13-A-04            151.04
13-A-05            151.05
13-A-06            151.06
14-01              92.01
14-02              92.02
14-03              92.03
14-04              92.04
14-05              92.05
14-06              92.06
14-07              92.07
14-08              92.08
14-09              92.09
14-10              92.10
14-11              92.11
14-12              92.12
14-13              92.13
14-14              92.14
14-15              92.15
14-16              92.16
14-17              92.17
14-18              92.18
14-20              92.20
14-21              92.21
14-22              92.22
14-23              92.23
14-24              92.24
15-1               112.01
15-2               112.02
15-3               112.03
15-4               112.04
15-5               112.05
15-6               112.06
15-7               112.07
15-8               112.08
15-9               112.09
15-10              112.10
15-11              112.11
15-12              112.12
15-13              112.13
15-14              112.14
15-15              112.15
15-16              112.16
15-17              112.17
16-1               113.01
16-2               113.02
16-4               113.05
16-5               113.06
16-6               113.07
16-7               113.08
16-10              113.15
17-1               33.01
17-2               33.02
17-3               33.03
17-4               33.04
17-8               33.06
17-19              33.20
17-20              33.21
17-21              33.22
17-22              33.23
18-A-01-01         95.01
18-A-01-02         95.02
18-A-01-03         95.03
18-A-01-04         95.04
18-A-01-05         95.05
18-A-01-06         95.99
18-A-01-07         95.06
18-A-02-01         95.20
18-A-02-02         95.21
18-A-03-01         95.35
18-A-03-02         95.36
18-A-03-03         95.37
18-A-03-04         95.38
18-A-03-05         95.39
18-A-03-06         95.40
18-A-03-07         95.41
18-A-03-08         95.42
18-A-03-09         95.43
18-A-04-01         95.55
18-A-04-02         95.56
18-A-04-03         95.57
19-4               114.01
19-5               114.02
20-1               34.01
20-2               34.02
20-3               34.03
20-4               34.04
20-5               34.05
20-6               34.99
20-7               34.06
20-8               34.07
20-9               34.08
20-10              34.09
20-11              34.10
20-12              34.11
20-13              34.12
20-14              34.99
20-15              34.13
20-30              34.14
22-1               94.01
22-2               94.02
22-4               94.03
22-5               94.04
22-6               94.05
22-8               94.06
22-9               94.07
22-10              94.08
22-11              94.09
22-15              94.10
22-16              94.11
22-19              94.12
22-20              94.13
22-21              94.14
22-22              94.15
22-30              94.16
22-31              94.17
22-32              94.22
22-33              94.19
22-34              94.20
22-35              94.21
22-37              94.22
22-39              94.23
25-A-02            35.01
25-A-03            35.02
25-A-04            35.03
26-A-01            51.01
26-A-02            51.02
26-A-03            51.03
26-A-04            51.04
26-A-05            51.05
26-A-06            51.06
26-A-07            51.07
26-A-08            51.08
26-A-09            51.09
26-A-10            51.10
26-A-11            51.11
26-A-12            51.12
26-A-13            51.13
26-A-14            51.14
26-A-15            52.99
27-A-01            155.001
27-A-02            155.002
27-A-03            155.003
27-A-04-1          155.020
27-A-04-02         155.021
27-A-04-03         155.022
27-A-04-04         155.023
27-A-04-05         155.024
27-A-04-06         155.025
27-A-04-07         155.026
27-A-04-08         155.027
27-A-04-09         155.028
27-A-04-10         155.029
27-A-04-11         155.030
27-A-04-12         155.031
27-A-05            155.004
27-A-06-01         155.045
27-A-06-02         155.046
27-A-06-03         155.047
27-A-06-04         155.048
27-A-06-05         155.049
27-A-06-06         155.050
27-A-06-07         155.051
27-A-06-08         155.052
27-A-06-09         155.053
27-A-06-10         155.054
27-A-06-11         155.055
27-A-06-12         155.056,
                   155.057
27-A-07            155.005
27-A-08-01         155.070
27-A-08-02         155.071
27-A-08-03         155.072
27-A-08-04         155.073
27-A-08-05         155.074
27-A-08-06         155.075
27-A-08-07         155.076
27-A-08-08         155.999
27-A-08-10         155.077
28-01              154.01
28-02              154.02
28-03              154.03
28.04              154.04
28.05              154.05
28.06              154.06
28.07              154.99
29-1               32.01
29-2               32.02
29-3               32.03
29-4               32.04
29-5               32.05
29-6               32.06
29-7               32.07
29-8               32.08
32-01              152.01
32-02              152.02
32-03              152.03
32-04              152.04
32-05              152.05
32-06              152.06
32-07              152.07
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     51.02 -
                     51.10,
                     91.01 -
                     91.14,
964      2- -2000    155.003,
                     155.005,
                     155.020 -
                     155.023,
                     155.048,
                     155.051
970      11- -2000   51.08
973      7- -2001    90.07
982      5- -2002    91.07
987      8-13-2002   30.20
993      3- -2003    155.023
994      4-29-2003   30.13
995      6- -2003    155.022
1016     3- -2005    155.048
1019     5- -2005    91.05
1025     11- -2005   150.04
1026     11- -2005   70.08
1028     1- -2006    51.08
1030     2- -2006    51.08
1034     6- -2006    91.07
1035     8- -2006    155.020
1038     9- -2006    155.051
1040     9-26-2006   34.13
1046     3-13-2007   30.02,
                     30.07
1047     4- -2007    155.005
1051     8- -2007    51.09
1057     10-23-2007  150.07
1059     1- -2008    90.05
1032     4- -2008    155.029 -
                     155.031
1033     4- -2008    155.003
                     51.02,
                     51.03,
1063     6- -2008    51.05 -
                     51.10,
                     52.99
1068     10- -2008   150.04
1076     4- -2009    51.08
1074     5- -2009    155.020 -
                     155.022
1079     6- -2009    91.13
1088     4-5-2010    152.01 -
                     152.07
1090     5-3-2010    153.01 -
                     153.04
1091     5- -2010    91.05,
                     91.08
1093     6- -2010    51.08
1098     1-11-2011   50.01 -
                     50.05
1101     2- -2011    51.07
1104     3-29-2011   35.01 -
                     35.03
1105     5-24-2011   110.18
1109     10- -2011   155.020
1106     12-27-2011  130.01 -
                     130.07
1111     12-27-2011  31.01 -
                     31.05
1130     4- -2012    51.06
1120     10- -2012   30.13
1124     12-25-2012  150.06
                     90.01 -
1126     2-12-2013   90.08,
                     90.99
1128     4-9-2013    71.05
1063     5- -2013    51.07
                     51.01 -
1130     5- -2013    51.09,
                     52.99
1146     8-12-2014   30.27
1142     9-9-2014    111.01 -
                     111.10
1151     11- -2014   51.07
                     151.06,
1156     10- -2015   155.004,
                     155.021
1157     10- -2015   155.002
1161     11-10-2015  94.12
1163     3-7-2016    155.049
1168     10- -2016   51.08
1171     12-19-2016  94.09
1172     12-19-2016  155.073
                     92.01 -
1174     2-14-2017   92.18,
                     92.20 -
                     92.24
1177     3- -2017    91.07
1183     11-20-2017  90.04,
                     90.07
1185     12-4-2017   35.30 -
                     35.40
1188     4-3-2018    115.01 -
                     115.11
1192     9-17-2018   TSO, Table I
                     36.01,
1193     11-5-2018   70.01 -
                     70.12,
                     70.99
                     51.01 -
1196     12-3-2018   51.14,
                     51.99
                     52.01 -
1195     12-13-2018  52.13,
                     52.99
1198     4-15-2019   155.032
1199     6-3-2019    112.14
1201     9-3-2019    155.033
1205     12-16-2019  113.01 -
                     113.16
1207     1-21-2020   92.12
                     90.08,
1208     3-16-2020   93.06,
                     93.08
                     111.02,
                     112.01 -
                     112.03,
                     112.06 -
1209     3-16-2020   112.08,
                     112.11,
                     112.13,
                     112.15 -
                     112.17,
                     114.01
                     155.003,
1210     4-6-2020    155.032,
                     155.070
1211     4-20-2020   36.01
1213     5-18-2020   36.01
                     93.02,
                     95.38,
1215     8-17-2020   95.60 -
                     95.63,
                     95.70
1217     10-5-2020   51.07
                     70.08,
1219     11-2-2020   71.03,
                     71.04
                     150.01,
1220     11-16-2020  150.03 -
                     150.05
1224     2-1-2021    35.31
1227     3-1-2021    95.03
1228     2-16-2021   30.28
1229     4-6-2021    155.004
1230     6-7-2021    30.22,
                     30.26
                     155.002,
1232     7-6-2021    155.004,
                     155.025
                     155.002,
                     155.006,
1235     10-4-2021   155.023,
                     155.025,
                     155.058
1236     10-4-2021   116.01 -
                     116.16
1237     12-20-2021  93.06
1239     1-17-2022   31.02 -
                     31.05
                     32.01 -
1243     11-21-2022  32.06,
                     32.08
1246     1-17-2023   72.01 -
                     72.04
                     51.02 -
                     51.06,
1249     11-6-2023   51.08,
                     51.09,
                     51.12,
                     51.99
                     52.03,
                     52.04,
                     52.08,
1250     11-6-2023   52.10,
                     52.11,
                     52.13,
                     52.99
1251     11-20-2023  155.032
                     91.02 -
                     91.04,
1253     2-5-2024    91.07 -
                     91.10,
                     91.13
1256     4-2-2024    92.17
1257     4-15-2024   72.01
                    
 
 
 
