CITY OF MCLAUGHLIN, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through
Ordinance 368 passed on 2-11-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
DIRECTORY OF OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF McLAUGHLIN, SOUTH DAKOTA
Mayor
Shirley Moser
City Council President
Lornie Hach
City Council Vice-President
Joseph Verbanac
City Council Members by Ward
Ward I   Kathy Dorner
         Lornie Hach
Ward II  Kenneth Jamerson
         Richard Martell
Ward III Craig Maher
         Joseph Verbanac
 
City Council Committees
Buildings–Cemetery, Park, and Airport      Kathy Dorner
                                             Kenneth Jamerson
Civil Defense Director                       Kathy Dorner
Electric, Water, Sewer, Garbage, and Streets Lornie Hach
                                             Joseph Verbanac
Health Board                                 Emily Dale
                                             Jessie Norder
Labor Representative                         Joseph Verbanac
Liquor Store Inventory Board                 Craig Maher
                                             Richard Martell
Police Liaison                               Kathy Dorner
                                             
 
 
Other Designations
Airport Manager     Nathan Thompson
City Attorney       Shane Penfield
Fire Chief          Michael Buechler
Official Depository First National Bank
Official Newspaper  Corson/Sioux County News-Messenger;
                    The Teton Times
                    
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend, or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “McLaughlin Code”,
for which designation “code of ordinances”, or “codified ordinances” may be
substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code or ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of McLaughlin, South Dakota.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNTY. Corson County, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   GOVERNING BODY. The Common Council of the town.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of McLaughlin, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   OWNER. The grantee in the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of
land recorded in the office of the register of deeds of the county or counties
in which the municipality is located, or the heirs or successors to the
grantee.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   PUBLISH. Publication in an official newspaper of the municipality as
designated by the governing body pursuant to SDCL § 9-12-6.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   RESOLUTION. Any determination, decision, or direction of the governing body
of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STATE. The State of South Dakota.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND, OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS;
GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Municipalities are authorized to provide for the punishment of each
violation of an ordinance, resolution, or regulation with a fine not to exceed
$500 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 22-6-2(2)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City divided into wards
§ 11.01 CITY DIVIDED INTO WARDS.
   The city shall be and the same hereby is divided into three wards, which
wards are located as follows:
   (A)   First ward. All that territory within the corporate limits and lying
north of Second Street in the city shall be and constitute the first ward of
said city;
   (B)   Second ward. All that territory within the corporate limits lying
south of Second Street and West of Main Street in the city shall be and
constitute the second ward of the city; and
   (C)   Third ward. All that territory lying within the corporate limits lying
south of Second Street and East of Main Street shall be and constitute the
third ward of said city.
(Prior Code, § 2.0101)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Notice
   
30.04   Vacancies in office
Cross-reference:
Code of Conduct, see
Ch. 31
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second, and
may be held on the third, Tuesday of each month at the City Hall at the hour of
6:00 p.m. Provided, any regular meeting of the City Council falling on a legal
holiday shall be held in the evening of the following day.
(Prior Code, § 1.0201)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the City Council may be held at any time, on the call of
the Mayor, or in case of his or her absence or inability to act, or refusal to
act, then by the President of the Council, or by three of the Aldermen,
provided that a quorum of the City Council is present.
(Prior Code, § 1.0202)
§ 30.03 NOTICE.
   In case of special meetings, it shall be the duty of the Mayor or President
of the Council calling same to issue notice to each of the Aldermen, which
shall be served by a city authority in due time before the holding of such
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1.0203)
§ 30.04 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   (A)   All vacancies in appointive offices shall be filled by the Mayor,
subject to confirmation by the City Council.
   (B)   All vacancies in any elective office shall be filled by the City
Council, unless otherwise specifically provided by statute.
   (C)   All officers elected or appointed to hold office by virtue of this
chapter shall not enter into their duties until they have qualified by filing
bond as required in
Chapter 31 of this code.
   (D)   The City Council may, from time to time, provide maximum salaries for
the several offices herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 1.0204)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Official bonds
Code of Conduct
   
31.15   Purpose
   
31.16   Application
   
31.17   Requirements
   
31.18   Disciplinary actions
Drug and Alcohol Abuse Policy
   
31.30   City’s commitment to a drug- and alcohol-free workplace
   
31.31   Policies generally
   
31.32   Employee responsibilities
   
31.33   Management responsibilities and guidelines
   
31.34   Testing for drugs or alcohol
   
31.35   Drugs to be tested for
   
31.36   Testing procedure
   
31.37   Consequences to employee engaging in prohibited conduct
   
31.38   Confidentiality
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OFFICIAL BONDS.
   (A)   All appointive officers shall qualify within 30 days after their
appointment and, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, by taking
and subscribing an oath of office in the form required by the Constitution of
this state and by furnishing an undertaking to the city to be approved by the
City Council in such sum as said City Council shall prescribe by ordinance or
resolution where the amount of such undertaking is not fixed by state law.
   (B)   Said bond shall be conditioned for the faithful discharge of the
duties of their respective offices and to account for, pay over, and deliver
all money coming into their hands by virtue of their office, according to law.
   (C)   All such undertakings or bonds, after being approved, shall be filed
with the City Finance Officer except the undertaking of the Finance Officer,
which shall be filed with the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1.0102) (Ord. 156, passed 1- -1983)
CODE OF CONDUCT
§ 31.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code of conduct is to ensure the efficient, fair, and
professional administration of federal grant funds in compliance with all
applicable federal and state standards, regulations, and laws.
(Ord. 359, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 31.16 APPLICATION.
   This code of conduct applies to all officers, employees, or agents of the
city engaged in the award or administration of contracts supported by federal
grant awards.
(Ord. 359, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 31.17 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No officer, employee, or agent of the city shall participate in the
selection, award, or administration of a contract supported by federal grant
funds if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved. Such a
conflict would arise when:
      (1)   The employee, officer, or agent;
      (2)   Any member of his or her immediate family;
      (3)   His or her partner; or
      (4)   An organization which employs or is about to employ any of the
above and has a financial or other interest in the first selected for award.
   (B)   The city officers, employees, or agents shall neither solicit nor
accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors,
potential contractors, or subcontractors.
(Ord. 359, passed 6-7-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.18 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   To the extent permitted by federal, state, or local laws or regulations,
violation of these standards may cause penalties, sanctions, or other
disciplinary actions to be taken against the city’s officers, employees, or
agents, or the contractors, potential contractors, subcontractors, or their
agents.
(Ord. 359, passed 6-7-2022)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE POLICY
§ 31.30 CITY’S COMMITMENT TO A DRUG- AND ALCOHOL-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The city has a strong commitment to its employees to provide a safe,
healthful, and productive work environment and to promote high standards of
employee health. Consistent with the spirit and intent of this objective, the
city will act to eliminate any substance abuse which could impair an employee’s
ability to safely and effectively perform a particular job and which increases
the potential for accidents, absenteeism, and substandard performance and tends
to undermine public confidence in the city’s work force. The city’s goals are
to establish and maintain a work environment that is free from the effects of
alcohol and drug abuse and to maintain the reputation and integrity of the city
by preventing unacceptable behavior by its employees that discredits the city
and its employees.
   (B)   While the city has no intention of unreasonably intruding into the
private lives of its employees, the city does expect employees to report for
work in a condition to perform their duties, make the work environment safe for
other employees, and represent a proper image to the citizens. It is clear that
employee off-the-job, as well as on-the-job, involvement with drugs and alcohol
can have an impact on the city’s goals.
   (C)   The city complies with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988. The
unlawful possession, use, distribution, dispensation, sale, or manufacture of
controlled substances, including alcohol, is prohibited while employees are on
the city’s property and while conducting business-related activities off the
city’s premises. The legal use of prescribed drugs is permitted on the job only
if it does not impair an employee’s ability to perform the essential functions
of the job effectively, and in a safe manner that does not endanger other
individuals in the workplace. Any employee found to be in violation of this
policy or any of the provisions set forth in the plan below will be subject to
discipline up to and including termination of employment.
§ 31.31 POLICIES GENERALLY.
   The following are the policies of the city regarding drug and alcohol abuse.
   (A)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use
of controlled drugs or substances, or the use of alcohol while on duty, on or
off business property owned or leased by the city is proper cause for
disciplinary action.
   (B)   Any illegal controlled drug or substance possessed while on duty by
employees will be turned over to the appropriate criminal justice agencies and
may result in criminal prosecution. This does not apply to public safety
officers who are in possession of an illegal controlled drug or substance while
acting in the line of duty.
   (C)   It is not permitted for an employee to be under the influence of
controlled drugs or substances or alcohol on the job, except as provided for in
division (D) below.
   (D)   The legal use of controlled drugs or substances prescribed by a
licensed physician is not prohibited, but employees in positions where side
effects of the prescribed medication could affect performance and safety on the
job are required to make such use known to their supervisor.
   (E)   The illegal use, sale, and possession of controlled drugs or
substances while off duty and off city premises which results in a criminal
conviction is unacceptable. Off-duty, alcohol-related criminal convictions are
also unacceptable. They may affect the job performance and the confidence of
the public in the city’s ability to meet its responsibilities. Such off-the-job
conduct may be proper cause for disciplinary action.
§ 31.32 EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   An employee must not report to work while his or her ability to
perform his or her job duties is impaired due to on- or off-duty alcohol or
drug use. Employees called in for emergency duty to work outside their regular
work schedule must not report to work impaired by off-duty alcohol or drug use.
   (B)   An employee must not possess or use alcohol or illegal drugs or
prescription drugs without a prescription during working hours or while subject
to duty, on breaks, or during meal periods.
   (C)   An employee must notify his or her supervisor, before beginning work,
when taking any medication or drugs, prescription or nonprescription, which may
interfere with the safe and effective performance of duties or operation of
city equipment.
   (D)   An employee must notify his or her immediate supervisor of any drug-
or alcohol-related criminal statute conviction for a violation occurring in the
workplace no later than five days after such conviction. Any violations of the
above-stated may result in immediate disciplinary action.
§ 31.33 MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Supervisors and department heads shall not physically search the
persons of employees nor shall they search the personal possessions of
employees without the freely given consent of, and in the presence of, the
employee.
   (B)   Supervisors and department heads shall notify the appropriate law
enforcement agency when they have reasonable suspicion to believe that an
employee may have illegal drugs in his or her possession or in an area jointly
or fully controlled by the city.
   (C)   Any supervisor or department head encountering an employee who refuses
to consent to a drug and/or alcohol analysis when “reasonable suspicion” has
been identified shall remind the employee of the requirements of the policy and
that he or she may be subject to disciplinary action. The reason(s) for the
refusal shall be considered in determining the appropriate disciplinary action.
Where there is reasonable suspicion that the employee is under the influence of
alcohol or drugs, the manager or supervisor should direct the employee to
remain at work for a reasonable time until the employee can be safely
transported home.
   (D)   Whenever disciplinary action is used in this policy, it shall include,
but not be limited to, oral reprimand, written reprimand, suspension, demotion,
or discharge.
§ 31.34 TESTING FOR DRUGS OR ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Post-offer/pre-employment. The city may require an individual post-
offer, but pre-employment, to undergo controlled substance testing, and if so,
work shall not be permitted until testing is completed and the results are
given to the department head.
   (B)   Reasonable suspicion.
      (1)   The city may request that the employee undergo drug and alcohol
testing if there is a “reasonable suspicion” that the employee is under the
influence of drugs or alcohol during work hours. Reasonable suspicion tests
should be administered as soon as practical following the determination of
reasonable suspicion.
         (a)   If the alcohol test is not administered within two hours of the
determination of reasonable suspicion, the attending supervisor will document
the reason for the delay. If the alcohol test is not administered within eight
hours of the determination of reasonable suspicion, all attempts to conduct the
alcohol test will cease and the attending supervisor will document the reasons
for the failure to test.
         (b)   If the controlled substances test is not administered within
eight hours of the determination of reasonable suspicion, the test should still
proceed. The attending supervisor must document the reasons for the delay. If
the controlled substances test has not been administered within 32 hours of the
determination of reasonable suspicion, all attempts to conduct the controlled
substances test will cease and the reasons will be documented by the attending
supervisor.
      (2)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         REASONABLE SUSPICION. An articulable belief based on specific facts
and reasonable inferences drawn from those facts that an employee is under the
influence of drugs or alcohol. Circumstances which constitute a basis for
determining REASONABLE SUSPICION may include, but are not limited to:
            1.   A pattern of abnormal or erratic behavior that is so unusual
that it warrants summoning a supervisor, department head, or other individual
for assistance;
            2.   Information provided by a reliable and credible source with
personal knowledge;
            3.   Direct observation of drug or alcohol use; presence of the
physical symptoms of drug or alcohol use (i.e., glossy or blood-shot eyes,
alcohol odor on breath, slurred speech, poor coordination and/or reflexes); and
            4.   Possession of substances in violation of the city’s drug and
alcohol policy.
      (3)   (a)   The employee, where “reasonable suspicion” exists, may be
asked to submit to blood and/or urine testing by a qualified medical physician
or hospital at the city’s expense. Prior to testing, the proper authority shall
secure a signed release statement from the employee to have the hospital/
physician release medical information to the city. An employee who refuses to
consent to a drug and alcohol test when reasonable suspicion exists may be
subject to disciplinary action. A positive result from the drug and/or alcohol
test confirming the reasonable suspicion may result in disciplinary action.
         (b)   The proper authority is required to detail in writing the
specific facts, symptoms, or observations that led to the reasonable suspicion.
This documentation, which includes the results of the drug or alcohol test as
confirmation of the use of drugs or alcohol on the job, shall be given to the
Finance Officer and placed in the employee’s file only if confirmed by the drug
and/or alcohol test.
   (C)   Post-accident. Any city employee involved in a work-related vehicular
accident may be subject to post-accident testing where reasonable suspicion
exists. Nothing in this section, however, will be construed to require the
delay of necessary medical attention for injured people following an accident
or to prohibit an employee from leaving the scene of an accident for the period
necessary to obtain assistance in responding to the accident, or to obtain
necessary emergency medical care.
   (D)   Follow-up testing. If a medical provider determines that an employee
is in need of assistance in solving problems with alcohol use and/or controlled
substances use, an employee may be subject to unannounced follow-up alcohol
and/or controlled substances testing if he or she is allowed to continue his or
her employment with the city. Follow-up testing will not exceed 60 months from
the date of the employee’s return to duty, so long as the employee remains
drug- and alcohol-free. It is preferred that the employee will have no less
than six unannounced follow-up alcohol and controlled substances tests within
the first 12 months following the employee’s return to work, provided the
employee remains employed and drug- and alcohol-free for that period.
§ 31.35 DRUGS TO BE TESTED FOR.
   The following drug groups were selected based on the ability of each drug to
adversely affect physical/mental performance. All are controlled substances
under state and federal law:
   (A)   Alcohol, ethyl;
   (B)   Amphetamines/methamphetamines, i.e., speed;
   (C)   Barbiturates, i.e., to include, but not be limited to, amobarbital,
butobarbital, phenobarbital, and secobarbital;
   (D)   Cocaine, cocaine metabolites;
   (E)   Benzodiazepines;
   (F)   Opiates, i.e., to include, but not be limited to, codeine, heroin,
morphine, hydromorphone, and hydrocodone;
   (G)   Phencyclidine (PCP); and
   (H)   THC (marijuana) metabolite.
§ 31.36 TESTING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever an applicant or employee is required or requested to submit
to any controlled substances testing, the applicant or employee may, upon
request, be permitted to have a representative present during collection or
testing when reasonably possible without disrupting the timeliness or
effectiveness of the testing process.
   (B)   Testing for employees is conducted by analyzing an employee’s specimen
according to the protocol of the testing facility. If testing involves urine
collection and the employee attempts and fails to provide an adequate amount of
urine, the department head will refer the employee for a medical evaluation, at
the employee’s expense, to determine if the employee’s inability to provide an
adequate volume of urine is medically genuine or constitutes a refusal to test.
§ 31.37 CONSEQUENCES TO EMPLOYEE ENGAGING IN PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   Positive results.
      (1)   If the results of a confirmatory pre-employment alcohol or
controlled substances test are positive, the applicant will be disqualified for
employment.
      (2)   An employee who tests positive for alcohol with a concentration
level above 0.02 grams alcohol per 210 liters breath or who tests positive for
the presence of an illegal controlled substance will be subject to disciplinary
action up to and including termination.
   (B)   Refusal to submit to required testing.
      (1)   An applicant who refuses to take a drug and alcohol test or does
not report to the testing facility at the scheduled date/time shall be
disqualified from further consideration for the conditionally offered position
with the city.
      (2)   A refusal by an employee to submit to alcohol and/or controlled
substance testing required under this policy will be treated as a positive test
result. The employee will not be permitted to work. The refusal may be
considered sufficient cause for disciplinary action up to and including
discharge.
   (C)   Return to work following positive results.
      (1)   If an employee has been found to have violated the requirements of
this policy, such as testing positive for the presence of alcohol and/or
controlled substances while on duty, the employee may in certain circumstances
be permitted to return to his or her position. This decision is entirely in the
discretion of the city.
      (2)   If an employee is permitted to return to work following a positive
drug or alcohol test, his or her continued employment may be conditional upon
very specific requirements, including, but not limited to, certain testing and
treatment requirements.
§ 31.38 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Information from an employee’s drug and/or alcohol test is
confidential, and only those with a need to know are to be informed of the
results. Disclosure of test results to any other person, agency, or
organization is prohibited unless written authorization is obtained from the
employee.
   (B)   However, disclosure without the employee’s consent may occur in the
following circumstances.
      (1)   The information is compelled by law or by judicial or
administrative process.
      (2)   The information has been placed at issue in a formal dispute
between the city and the employee.
      (3)   The information must be disclosed pursuant to a genuine emergency
wherein the information must be disclosed to protect the safety or welfare of
any person. Even in such situations, however, if time permits, the city shall
attempt to obtain a judicial order to disclose this information.
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Service and Use Tax
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Service tax
   
32.03   Use tax
   
32.04   Collection
   
32.05   Interpretation
 
   
32.99   Penalty
SERVICE AND USE TAX
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the municipality by imposing a municipal retail sales and use tax pursuant to
the powers granted to the municipality by the state, by SDCL § 10-52, entitled
Uniform Municipal Non-Ad Valorem Tax Law, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 333, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 32.02 SERVICE TAX.
   From and after January 1, 2017, there is hereby imposed as a municipal
retail occupational sales and service tax upon the privilege of engaging in
business a tax measured by 2% on the gross receipts of all persons engaged in
business within the jurisdiction of the municipality who are subject to the
State Retail Occupational Sales and Service Tax, SDCL § 10-45, and acts
amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 333, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 32.03 USE TAX.
   In addition, there is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of use,
storage, and consumption within the jurisdiction of the municipality of items
purchased from and after January 1, 2017, at the same rate as the municipal
sales and service tax upon all transactions or use, storage, and consumption
which are subject to the State Use Tax, SDCL § 10-46, and acts amendatory
thereto.
(Ord. 333, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 32.04 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL § 10-52 and
acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue in accordance with the same rules and regulations applicable to the
State Sales Tax and under such additional rules and regulations as the
Secretary of Revenue of the state shall lawfully prescribe.
(Ord. 333, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 32.05 INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the State Retail Occupational Sales and Service Tax, SDCL §
10-45, and acts amendatory thereto, and the State Use Tax, SDCL § 10-46, and
acts amendatory hereto, and that this shall be considered a similar tax except
for the rate thereof to that tax.
(Ord. 333, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
32.01 through
32.05 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $2,000 or imprisoned in the municipal
jail for 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, all such
collection remedies authorized by SDCL § 10-45, and acts amendatory thereto,
and SDCL § 10-46, and acts amendatory thereto, are hereby authorized for the
collection of these excise taxes by the Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 333, passed 11-7-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY REGULATIONS
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER
      
52.   SOLID WASTE
      
53.   ELECTRICITY
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY REGULATIONS
Section
   
50.01   Monthly collection
   
50.02   Service disconnect
   
50.03   Landowner responsibility
   
50.04   Utility deposit, reconnect fee, and facility rental schedule
§ 50.01 MONTHLY COLLECTION.
   Bills for utility services shall be rendered monthly and shall be due on the
first day of each month and shall become delinquent on the fifteenth day of the
same month. Meter reading dates shall be set by the City Council. The City
Office must receive the amount due for all utilities on or before the fifteenth
day of the month to avoid interest penalties. Interest shall accrue on all
delinquent amounts at the rate of 18% per annum.
(Ord. 343, passed 9-10-2018; Ord. 368, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 50.02 SERVICE DISCONNECT.
   (A)   Utilities will be disconnected after the utility bill has become
delinquent and no later than the sixteenth of the same month. Utility service
will not be restored until all bills are paid in full, including any requested
deposits, and reconnection charges are paid for each meter reconnected.
   (B)   (1)   A $100 fee shall be added to any utility bill for any disconnect
due to nonpayment of a bill.
      (2)   A $20 fee shall be added to any utility bill for any reconnection
request during working hours.
      (3)   A $150 fee shall be added to any utility bill for any reconnection
request during non-working hours and weekends.
   (C)   (1)   The city reserves the right to discontinue service, on a
permanent basis, without prior notice, for the following reasons:
         (a)   To prevent fraud and abuse;
         (b)   Emergency repairs;
         (c)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the city’s
control;
         (d)   Legal processes;
         (e)   Direction of public authorities;
         (f)   Strike, riot, fire, accident, or any unavoidable cause; and
         (g)   To prevent system contamination through an unintentional or
intentional cross- connection.
      (2)   In the event of a discontinuance of service due to (C)(1)(b), (C)
(1)(c), (C)(1)(e), (C)(1)(f), or (C)(1)(g) above, the city will, within 24
hours after such discontinuance, provide notice to city residents by
publication or broadcast of the discontinuance by state and local news media
and/or other emergency methods that will provide reasonable notification.
   (D)   The city may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to anyone who tampers with a meter.
(Ord. 343, passed 9-10-2018; Ord. 368, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 50.03 LANDOWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, it shall be the
ultimate responsibility of the owner of the property to ensure all utility
bills imposed by the city are paid, and non-payment shall as a matter of law
become a lien upon the property.
(Ord. 343, passed 9-10-2018; Ord. 368, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 50.04 UTILITY DEPOSIT, RECONNECT FEE, AND FACILITY RENTAL SCHEDULE.
Type Amount
Type                                                                         Amount
Auditorium
   Cleaning deposit                                                       $150
   Rent                                                                   $75
   Rent with internet                                                     $80
Conference room
   After office hours                                                     $30 per
                                                                             day
   During office hours                                                    $20 per
                                                                             day
Connection fee
   After office hours/weekends                                            $150
   During office hours                                                    $100
Damaged meters                                                               $50 fee
                                                                             Cost of
   Electric meters                                                        meter at
                                                                             current
                                                                             price
                                                                             Cost of
   Water meters                                                           meter at
                                                                             current
                                                                             price
                                                                             $80 for 2
Disconnect meter—turn off water or electric for any reason, non-payment or employees
repairs                                                                      for 1
                                                                             hour
Idle service                                                                 $40
                                                                             Previous
Utility deposit                                                              rate
                                                                             $275, now
                                                                             $300
 
(Ord. 336, passed 8-7-2017; Ord. 366, passed 10-3-2024)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Water and Sewer Committee
   
51.02   City Engineer
   
51.03   Superintendent of Water and Sewer
   
51.04   Water and sewer regulation
   
51.05   Supervision
   
51.06   Inspection
   
51.07   Water connection
   
51.08   Pipes under city control
   
51.09   Consumer to repair
   
51.10   Water shut off for fires
   
51.11   Tampering with mains
   
51.12   Agreement with city
   
51.13   Department shall make report
   
51.14   Sewer connections
   
51.15   Trenches
   
51.16   Grease traps
   
51.17   Fixing rates for sewer rental and for monthly collections thereof
   
51.18   Permits
   
51.19   Plumber’s bonds
   
51.20   Additional sewer tapping fee
Water Meters
   
51.35   Installation
   
51.36   Manner of installing
   
51.37   Repairs to meter
   
51.38   Reading of meters
   
51.39   Discontinuance of water service
   
51.40   Disabled meters
   
51.41   One meter only
Water Rates
   
51.55   For residential business and commercial uses within city limits
   
51.56   For trailer courts within city limits
   
51.57   For all uses connected with municipal water outside city limits
   
51.58   Fixing special rates
   
51.59   Loan repayment water surcharge
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 WATER AND SEWER COMMITTEE.
   The City Council shall, at its first regular meeting in the month of May
each year, select a committee of Aldermen to act as a Sewer and Water
Committee. Such committee shall be in charge of all departments pertaining to
the operation and maintenance of the water and sewer system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.0101)
§ 51.02 CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer shall have charge of the laying of all water and sewer
mains, pipes, and connections belonging to the city. He or she shall keep a
record and plats showing the location of all water and sewer mains and pipes,
hydrants, gate valves, water connection, manholes, flush tanks, Ys, and sewer
connections. Such record and plats shall be kept up on date and a copy of the
same shall be on file with the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 11.0102)
§ 51.03 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWER.
   The Water and Sewer Committee shall, with the ratification of the City
Council, appoint a Superintendent of Water and Sewer. They shall, with the
advice of the Superintendent of Water and Sewer, supervise the maintenance of
said utilities.
(Prior Code, § 11.0103)
§ 51.04 WATER AND SEWER REGULATION.
   The Water and Sewer Committee, the Superintendent of Water and Sewer, and
the City Engineer shall constitute the Water and Sewer Department of the city.
The Water and Sewer Department shall establish rules and regulations relating
to the making of service connections relating to the duties of water users and
the use of water, such other rules as it may deem necessary for the efficient
and economic operation and maintenance of the water and sewer systems, and
shall provide penalties for violation of same, and, when necessary, costs and
charges for sewage services, as approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11.0104)
§ 51.05 SUPERVISION.
   The Superintendent of Water and Sewer shall personally attend to the making
of all repairs relative to water and sewer pipes, hydrants, manholes, and flush
tanks; attend to the placing and repairing of all meters; tap or personally
oversee and control the tapping of mains or pipes of the water system
controlled by the city, and the inserting of the corporation cock in said mains
and pipes for service pipes or branches therefrom. He or she shall read all
meters as hereinafter in this subchapter provided. He or she shall perform such
other services as may be required by the Water and Sewer Committee or the
ordinances, rules, and regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.0105)
§ 51.06 INSPECTION.
   The Superintendent shall inspect, direct, and supervise, and, if
satisfactory, approve, all service connections to water and sewer, all service
pipes, shut off valves and boxes, and all connections between said mains or
pipes and the service meter installed in the building of the premises supplied
by said utilities. The city’s supervision shall not extend to any plumbing or
fixtures within and in such building beyond the point where said water meter is
placed or designated to be placed on said water pipe, except as hereinafter
provided in §
51.10.
(Prior Code, § 11.0106)
§ 51.07 WATER CONNECTION.
   All water connections for service from the city mains shall be made in
accordance with the rules and regulation prescribed by the Water and Sewer
Department. All service pipes shall be laid with a covering of at least six and
one-half feet of earth. There shall be a curb cock and curb box placed on every
service connection. These shall be placed between the sidewalk and the curb and
as close to the curb as practicable. There shall be a stop and waste cock
attachment to every service supply pipe where it enters and within the building
and so arranged so as to permit the water being shut off instantly and the
pipes drained in case of repairs in freezing weather. The service pipe shall be
connected to the main with a corporation cock and goose neck.
(Prior Code, § 11.0108) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 PIPES UNDER CITY CONTROL.
   All pipes from the water mains to the curb shall forever be under the
absolute control of the city, the applicant waiving and releasing all claim
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 11.0109)
§ 51.09 CONSUMER TO REPAIR.
   Service pipes, stops, and other fixtures must be laid and kept in repair and
protected from frost by the applicant or consumer.
(Prior Code, § 11.0110) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 WATER SHUT OFF FOR FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of every consumer of water from the city mains, as soon
as the fire signal is given, to shut off water cocks on his or her premises and
keep the same closed until the fire is extinguished.
(Prior Code, § 11.0111) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 TAMPERING WITH MAINS.
   No person shall tamper with or by any means whatever damage, destroy, or
temporarily place out of service any city water gate, valve, stop cock,
hydrant, or in any manner interfere with the same; nor in any manner obstruct
the access to any stop cock, hydrant, or valve connected with any water pipe by
means of any timber, brick, or other things, article, or hindrance whatsoever,
nor in any manner open any hydrant within the city, without permission of the
Superintendent of Water and Sewer, or the commanding officer of the City Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 11.0112) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 AGREEMENT WITH CITY.
   In all applications for water connections, the applicant shall agree that he
or she will pay for all water consumed, and shall further agree to waive any
and all claims against the city for deficiency or failure to supply water
whether by reason of shutting off to make repairs or connections, or for any
other cause whatsoever, as well as for excessive pressure and damage caused by
broken pipes, or for any other cause whatsoever, and that he or she will abide
by all rules and regulations of the city relating to such water works system.
Each applicant for water connection shall comply with §
51.18.
(Prior Code, § 11.0113)
§ 51.13 DEPARTMENT SHALL MAKE REPORT.
   The Water and Sewer Department shall, at the end of each fiscal year, make
report to the City Council showing all monies received and expended, and for
what purpose; a summary of all work done, with a list of all delinquencies and
sums owing for water previous to the past immediate quarter, and shall make
such recommendations for the ensuing year as they may deem practicable for the
efficient operation of the system.
(Prior Code, § 11.0114)
§ 51.14 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All drains from buildings shall have separate drain pipe connections
to the main sewer, and no drain shall be connected to any sewer with a pipe of
less than six inches in diameter, unless permitted by the Sewer and Water and
Sewer Department for cause shown.
   (B)   Any person desiring to make connection with the city sewer must give
at least 48 hours’ notice to the Superintendent of Water and Sewer as to when
such work will be ready for inspection.
   (C)   No cesspool, septic tank, or privy vault shall be connected with the
city sewer. No exhausts from steam engines or blow offs from steam boilers
shall be connected with the said sewer system unless first connected with a
catch basin as specified by the City Engineer. No butcher’s offal, garbage,
dead animals, or obstructions of any kind shall be placed, thrown, or deposited
in any receiving basin, manhole, automatic flush tank, or sewer.
   (D)   All connections shall be made with the Y placed for that purpose at
the time of laying the mains, unless, for good reasons, the Superintendent of
Water and Sewer shall permit otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 11.0115) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15 TRENCHES.
   (A)   Excavation on the street must be made so as to cause the least
inconveniences possible to the public.
   (B)   No excavation shall be left open overnight unless properly guarded
with lights from dark until daylight, and by placing temporary fences on each
side of obstruction.
   (C)   In refilling the trench, the earth, after being put back, must be
flushed with water and thoroughly tamped.
   (D)   The sidewalk must be restored to as good condition as previous to
making the excavation, and all dirt and rubbish must be removed immediately
after the completion of the work.
   (E)   Should excavations in any public place be left open or unfinished for
a period of more than 24 hours, or should the work be improperly done, or the
rubbish not removed, the Water and Sewer Department may complete the work and
the expense thus incurred shall stand and be a charge against said plumber on
his or her bond.
   (F)   Persons excavating shall also comply with §
150.01.
(Prior Code, § 11.0116) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 GREASE TRAPS.
   In all cases where a building is used as a hotel, tenement, boarding house,
or restaurant, the owner or occupant shall provide properly constructed grease
traps through which all slop or greasy nature shall pass, and the Building
Inspector shall have the authority and is hereby authorized to direct and
compel any person, firm, or corporation to provide and use a grease trap as
aforesaid when, in his or her judgement, the same is necessary.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-26-2024) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 FIXING RATES FOR SEWER RENTAL AND FOR MONTHLY COLLECTIONS THEREOF.
   (A)   All residential wastewater connections shall be assessed a rate of $26
per month per connection.
   (B)   All business and commercial wastewater connections shall be assessed a
rate of $26 per month for the first 12,000 gallons of use per month, plus $0.25
per 1,000 gallons of use over 12,000 gallons of use per month.
   (C)   The fees in divisions (A) and (B) above shall be reviewed as
appropriately needed to ensure that water fees collected are 110% of annual
operating costs. The rates in divisions (A) and (B) above do not include the
wastewater surcharge fees necessary to repay the Clean Water State Revolving
Loan Fund, which benefits all wastewater users, therefore:
      (1)   All residential, business, and commercial water connections shall
be charged a $15.60 wastewater surcharge fee; and
      (2)   The surcharge rate in division (C)(1) above shall reviewed and
amended as needed to ensure that bonds issued to repay improvements via the
Clean Water State Revolving Loan agreement conditions shall be met.
(Ord. 337, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 51.18 PERMITS.
   (A)   Connection permits required in connection with water lines.
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall make any extensions to or
alteration of any water tap, main pipe, or other fixture without first
obtaining a written permit so to do, and a full report of such work must be
made within 24 hours after the completion of the work.
      (2)   The owners of property desiring the use of the water from the
municipal distributing lines or pipes shall make application in writing, either
by themselves or their authorized agents, to the City Finance Officer. The
applicant is to state the size of the tap, the kind of service pipe to be used,
and the description of the premises and the name of the owner thereof.
      (3)   Such application must be accompanied by a tapping fee in the sum of
$750 if installed from April 1 through October 31. Actual cost of installation
will be required for connections from November 1 through March 31. Connections
larger than one inch shall be negotiated first with the City Council as a
deposit for the cost of making such tap as hereinafter provided, which fee
shall include all necessary service connections and supplies and materials
furnished by the city and shall be inspected by the city. Such application must
be made and approved by the City Council at least two days before any such work
is commenced. If and when the application is approved, the Superintendent of
Water and Sewer shall supervise the tap into the water main and supervise the
size of the service pipe to owner’s curb line. The city will furnish all
standard materials and labor for installation to the curb stop.
   (B)   Connection permits required in connection with sewer line.
      (1)   (a)   No person, firm, or corporation shall connect its property
with any opening or tap into any public sewer pipes of the city without first
having made application therefor, in writing, by themselves or their duly
authorized agents, to the City Finance Officer and obtain approval thereof, and
permit, in writing from the City Council.
         (b)   Said application shall deposit the sum of $100 tapping fee, and
this includes the inspection and material necessary for making the connection
or tap. All materials will be furnished by the city.
         (c)   All applications for sewer connection or tap must be made in
writing and forms provided by the City Finance Officer, and all fees and
deposits herein provided, including special tap fees, affecting said property,
as provided by this section, shall accompany said application and shall be
presented to the next regular or adjourned or special meeting of the Council.
      (2)   In the event the connection or tapping of water or sewer requested
in the application shall require the digging into any improvements of the
street, alley, or other public property, the applicant shall ensure compliance
with §
51.15.
(Ord. 237, passed 7-7-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 PLUMBER’S BONDS.
   All plumbers desiring to do work in connection with the city water works and
sewer system shall furnish the city with a good and sufficient bond in the sum
of $1,000 to be approved by the City Council, to protect, indemnify, and save
harmless the city from all or any loss, claim, suit, or damages the city may
sustain by reason of the violation on the part of such plumber of any rules or
regulations relative to plumbers or any other damage caused by plumbers of any
city ordinance in force relative to the water and sewer systems and connection
made therewith by such plumbers.
(Prior Code, § 11.0401) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 ADDITIONAL SEWER TAPPING FEE.
   (A)   (1)   In lieu of special assessments being levied in payment of the
trunk sanitary sewer laid in the alley between Third Avenue East in, and
projected Fourth Avenue East to the city, in addition to the regular tapping
fees as provided under present ordinances, all property abutting on the west
side of said alley shall pay a special tapping fee of $5.05 per foot owned by
the person requesting to tap the trunk sanitary sewer and, in addition, the
regular city tapping fees.
      (2)   Whenever anyone abutting said alley on the east side shall request
to tap the trunk sanitary sewer, such property shall pay to the City Finance
Officer on behalf of the property owner abutting the alley on the west side
opposite the property on the east side the sum of $5.05 per foot owned plus
interest at 8% per annum from the time of payment by the party on the west side
of the alley.
      (3)   The portion of Outlot Q being Blocks 3 and 4 in the Southwest
Quarter of Section 5 in Township 21 North, Range 27, East of the B.H.M., Corson
County, South Dakota. The tapping fee shall be $5.05 per lineal foot.
   (B)   The special tapping fee in division (A) above shall be paid to the
City Finance Officer by the owner or owners of each and any of said tracts of
land abutting on said trunk sanitary sewer, and all sums received from said
special tapping fee from owners on the east side of the alley to be paid to the
City Finance Officer, who shall remit to the property owners opposite on the
west side of the alley in accordance with this section.
   (C)   All fees are to be paid before tapping.
(Prior Code, § 11.0202) Penalty, see §
51.99
WATER METERS
§ 51.35 INSTALLATION.
   All patrons of the city water system shall cause to be installed, at his or
her own expense, on the service pipe leading into and supplying water service
to their respective properties a water meter meeting the approval of the City
Council. Provided, that no city water shall be furnished to any patron except
through a water meter, as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.0301) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.36 MANNER OF INSTALLING.
   All meters must be installed by the City Superintendent, and cost of
installation must be borne by the patron.
(Prior Code, § 11.0302) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.37 REPAIRS TO METER.
   The patron will be held responsible for any willful damage done to any water
meter, and must bear the cost of repairing same in such case. The patron will
also be held responsible for damage to meter through freezing or by fire or hot
water, and cost of repairing meter from such causes must be borne by the
patron.
(Prior Code, § 11.0303) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.38 READING OF METERS.
   Meters will be read monthly unless other arrangements are made with the
consent of the City Council, and the amount of money due for water consumed
during such month shall be due and payable at the office of the City Finance
Officer on the first day of the month following. A penalty of 10% of the amount
of the bill shall be added to all accounts not paid on or before the twentieth
day of each month.
(Prior Code, § 11.0304)
§ 51.39 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   The Superintendent of Water and Sewer shall shut off and discontinue the
city water service to any patron when such patron shall be in arrears for water
furnished for a period of 25 days, and such water shall not again be turned on
except in accordance with patron’s complying with the provisions of this
subchapter, and the payment of the penalty for shutting off water as provided
in §
50.04.
(Prior Code, § 11.0305)
§ 51.40 DISABLED METERS.
   Should any meter become disabled from any cause and service not able to be
furnished another meter, the patron shall pay for water used during the period
of such disability, pro rata, as indicated by the reading of meter used with
said service during the preceding month.
(Prior Code, § 11.0306) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.41 ONE METER ONLY.
   (A)   The supply of water through each separate service must be recorded by
one meter only (with the exception of services which, prior to January 1, 1983,
were, with the knowledge and consent of the City Council, then in service) for
which one bill will be rendered.
   (B)   If additional or auxiliary meters are desired for recording
subdivisions of water supply, they may be installed by owner of premises on any
part of said service line, except between the water main and where the city
meter is stationed.
(Prior Code, § 11.0307) Penalty, see §
51.99
WATER RATES
§ 51.55 FOR RESIDENTIAL, BUSINESS, AND COMMERCIAL USES WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   All owners and occupants of a premises used for residential, business, or
commercial purpose located within the city limits and connected with the
municipal system shall pay:
   (A)   For the availability of water service, a minimum of $55 per month per
meter; and
   (B)   For all the water actually delivered and metered to the consumer at
the rate of $2 per 1,000 gallons for all gallons per month.
(Ord. 363, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 51.56 FOR TRAILER COURTS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   Water rates for all trailer courts located within the city limits connected
with the municipal water system having a master meter and connected with the
municipal water system shall pay:
   (A)   For the availability of water service, a minimum of $55 per month per
meter; and
   (B)   For all the water actually delivered and metered upon its premises at
the rate of $2 per 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. 363, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 51.57 FOR ALL USES CONNECTED WITH MUNICIPAL WATER OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   For the consumption of water and for the availability of water service for
said purpose, it is fixed at the same rate as within the city limits except
that the minimum monthly rate for such as are herein provided shall be two
times the minimum rates provided for said monthly rate within the city limits.
All excess water used over the minimum shall be at the same rate as provided
within the city limits.
(Ord. 363, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 51.58 FIXING SPECIAL RATES.
   Wherever, by reason of special circumstances, the City Council finds the
foregoing rates for any user or purpose, and whether within or without the city
limits, are unjust or inequitable as applied to certain premises, said rates,
if in the opinion of the City Council, be either too high or too low, the City
Council, by resolution, may fix and establish a fair and equitable rate for
such premises during the period of such special circumstance, or may authorize
the Mayor to enter into a contract for the sale of water at a fixed rate as
provided in said contract for such special use.
(Ord. 363, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 51.59 LOAN REPAYMENT WATER SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The fees in this subchapter shall be reviewed as appropriately needed
to ensure that water fees collected are 110% of annual operating costs and
payments for the 2005 Drinking Water State Revolving Loan agreement conditions
are met. The rates in this subchapter do not include the water surcharge fees
necessary to repay a Drinking Water State Revolving Loan which benefits all
water users.
   (B)   The surcharge rate in division (A) above shall be reviewed and amended
as needed to ensure that bonds issued to repay improvements via the Drinking
Water State Revolving Loan agreement conditions shall be met.
(Ord. 363, passed 2-21-2024)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.15 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11.0118)
   (C)   Any person who shall be convicted of any violation of §
51.16 shall be fined no more than $500 or serve no more than 30 days in jail,
or both, in accordance with SDCL 9-19-3. Each day any violation of §
51.16 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 364, passed 9-26-2024)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Restricted use/rubble site; rules and regulations
Collection of Solid Waste
   
52.15   Definitions
   
52.16   Nuisance
   
52.17   Collection and hauling of solid waste
   
52.18   Rubbish to be compacted
   
52.19   Garbage must be wrapped
   
52.20   Garbage and rubbish must be deposited in containers
   
52.21   Containers for multiple family dwellings
   
52.22   Points of collection
   
52.23   Persons authorized to dispose of garbage; charges
   
52.24   Residential, multiple dwelling, and business classification
   
52.25   Frequency of collection
   
52.26   Statements, payments, and suspension of service
   
52.27   Fees; when delinquent
   
52.28   Dumping grounds; selection and use
   
52.29   Dumping grounds; operation
   
52.30   Commercial garbage and rubbish haulers
   
52.31   Spring and fall clean-up schedule
   
52.32   Garbage collection rates
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Littering and garbage nuisances, see
Ch. 93
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 RESTRICTED USE/RUBBLE SITE; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A restricted use is essentially designed to handle some of the bulky
wastes which are generated in the normal waste stream, but do not have the
potential to decompose and harm the groundwater, human health, or the
environment.
   (B)   A list of wastes and fees that will be accepted at the city’s
restricted use site is as follows.
      (1)   Small amounts of bricks, rocks, concrete blocks, shingles,
furniture, and mattresses.
         (a)   These items must be disposed of in designated areas only.
         (b)   Dumping fees for the items in this division (B)(1), excluding
furniture and mattresses, shall be:
            1.   For pickup trucks, trailers, and wagons (light): $10;
            2.   For straight trucks: $25 per load; and
            3.   For tandem trucks: $50 per load.
         (c)   There will not be a charge for dumping furniture and mattresses
for city residents.
      (2)   Scrap lumber and treated wood.
         (a)   Dumping fees shall be the same rate as set forth in division (B)
(1)(b) above.
         (b)   For untreated wood, trees, and tree branches, there is no
charge.
      (3)   Refrigerators, washers, dryers, freezers, stoves, water heaters,
and other recyclable scrap metal (no fuel tanks).
         (a)   These items may only be stored at the site and must be removed
on at least an annual basis for recycling.
         (b)   Refrigerators, freezers, and air conditioners must have the
refrigerant (Freon) removed by a certified refrigeration specialist. Such
appliances must be accompanied with the appropriate paperwork and signed by a
certified refrigeration specialist.
         (c)   Dumping fees for acceptable white goods shall be $10 per unit.
      (4)   Waste tires.
         (a)   Waste tires may be stored at the site in designated areas only.
         (b)   Dumping fees shall be:
            1.   Tires up to 16 inches: $4;
            2.   Tires 16 inches to 26 inches: $10; and
            3.   Tires 26 inches to 30 inches and over: $20 to $25 according to
the size of the tire.
      (5)   Leaves and grass clippings.
         (a)   Leaves and grass clippings may not be burned; they must be
composted.
         (b)   Leaves and grass must be put in a designated dumpster or hauled
to the restricted use site.
   (C)   Car bodies, household pets, wild game carcasses, and domestic
livestock will not be accepted at the site.
   (D)   Days that the rubble site will be open to the public will be published
in the “Corson/Sioux County News-Messenger.”
   (E)   All materials brought to the site will be inspected by the site
manager.
(Ord. 302, passed 7-6-2010) Penalty, see §
52.99
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
§ 52.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL GARBAGE AND RUBBISH HAULER. Any person who hauls or transports
any garbage, rubbish, or waste material through or upon the streets or alleys
of this city for a consideration or a fee.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen and table refuse and every accumulation of waste, animal,
and vegetable matter that attends the preparation, cooking, and eating of food
or the storage, handling, sale, or decay of food, or any other substance that
is in the process of decay, which gives off an odor offensive to the senses.
   GARBAGE CONTAINER. A watertight metallic or plastic dumpster, of not less
than one cubic yard gallon capacity, which container must be kept in a sanitary
condition at all times, with the outside thereof free and clear of grease or
decomposed matter. The size, shape, and condition of the dumpster must be
approved by the city.
   RUBBISH. Broken crockery, destroyed bottles, tin cans, pasteboard boxes,
wooden boxes, paper, straw, leaves, ashes, grass clippings, tree trunks and
branches, discarded appliances and furniture, and all other substances of every
kind, including barnyard manure.
   RUBBISH CONTAINER. A box, crate, or can of such character that it can be
readily handled and emptied by the city rubbish collectors and sufficiently
tight so as to prevent the rubbish therein contained from being blown or strewn
about, not to exceed 33 gallons capacity.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990)
§ 52.16 NUISANCE.
   Every accumulation of garbage or rubbish which is deposited, kept, burned,
or transported at any place in the city in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 COLLECTION AND HAULING OF SOLID WASTE.
   The governing body of the city may contract upon competitive written sealed
bids for the collection and hauling of solid waste from the city, as
hereinafter provided, for a term to be determined by the City Council, not to
exceed five years, or the city may perform such services by day labor, as the
City Council may determine.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990)
§ 52.18 RUBBISH TO BE COMPACTED.
   Before being deposited in a rubbish container, all rubbish shall be broken
or cut up and compacted so as to occupy as little cubic space as possible, and
so that it may easily be handled and loaded.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 GARBAGE MUST BE WRAPPED.
   All garbage must be wrapped in paper or other material so as to prevent, as
nearly as possible, moisture from the garbage coming in contact with the sides
and bottom of the garbage container.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 GARBAGE AND RUBBISH MUST BE DEPOSITED IN CONTAINERS.
   The occupant of every private home or dwelling place, and the operator of
every place of business in the city, is hereby required to deposit and keep the
garbage that accumulates each day upon his or her premises in a garbage
container, as defined in this subchapter, and to each day deposit and keep the
rubbish that accumulates upon his or her premises in a rubbish container as
defined in this subchapter, provided that grass, leaves, or other material to
be used as compost for fertilizer may be kept in a pit or closed container
until such time as it may be used, and barnyard manure must be kept in a
tightly closed box or container not exceeding a period of one week.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 CONTAINERS FOR MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   The proprietor or operator of each duplex, apartment house, or similar
multiple family dwelling shall furnish and maintain for the use of the tenants
therein a sufficient number of garbage containers and rubbish containers to
hold all garbage and rubbish that accumulates upon such premises in the course
of a week, or he or she shall require the tenants upon said premises to furnish
such containers. The place where the garbage and rubbish containers are located
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 POINTS OF COLLECTION.
   Garbage and rubbish containers shall be placed for collection at ground
level on the property adjacent to the alley from which collection is to be
made.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO DISPOSE OF GARBAGE; CHARGES.
   All garbage accumulated in the city shall be collected, conveyed, and
disposed of by the city or its contacted or employed garbage hauler, and no
person other than a commercial garbage hauler contracted or employed by the
city shall collect or haul garbage within the city. The monthly fee provided by
this subchapter for the collection of garbage shall be billed against all
residences and business establishments as provided by the City Council.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24 RESIDENTIAL, MULTIPLE DWELLING, AND BUSINESS CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   The collection of garbage and rubbish in the city is divided into
three classifications, namely, residential, multiple dwelling, and business.
The residential classification shall include the collection of garbage and
rubbish from private residences housing not more than one family. The multiple
dwelling classification shall include dwelling housing not more than two
families, including any combination of apartments and/or duplexes housing not
more than two families, and all multiple dwelling establishments housing more
than two families shall be considered under the business classification and
garbage and rubbish from said multiple family dwelling shall be picked up by
commercial haulers.
   (B)   The business classification shall include collection of all garbage
and rubbish not included in division (A) above.
   (C)   Any residential dwelling requesting or needing more than twice per
week pickup shall be classified as a commercial or business account.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990)
§ 52.25 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   Garbage shall be collected in all areas of the city at least once each week,
and as much more often as the City Council deems necessary for the proper
handling and disposal thereof.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990)
§ 52.26 STATEMENTS, PAYMENTS, AND SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   The City Auditor shall monthly, and in advance, itemize charges for both
residential collection of garbage and for all collections under the business
classification as set forth in this subchapter, and mail the same to each
residential or business user. Payment shall be made at the office of the City
Auditor. Payment shall become delinquent 15 days after the date of billing by
the City Auditor, and if an account is not paid before it becomes delinquent,
the city shall have the authority to discontinue all utilities, including, but
not limited to, the collection of garbage and rubbish, for the person owing
such delinquent account and shall not resume collection service until such
delinquent account has been paid in full.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990)
§ 52.27 FEES; WHEN DELINQUENT.
   All fees for garbage or rubbish collection shall be payable at the office of
the City Auditor and if not paid within 15 days after the same have become due
as provided in this subchapter, they shall become delinquent, and a penalty of
18% annually on the balance of the unpaid utility bill shall be added to said
bill, which penalty shall be in addition to other penalties prescribed by this
subchapter providing for discontinuance of service and criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 DUMPING GROUNDS; SELECTION AND USE.
   (A)   The City Council may select and establish as dumping grounds suitable
lots or parcels of land, without the city limits, and may require that all
straw, manure, leaves, ashes, and other rubbish which may be removed from
public or private premises be drawn to and deposited upon the dumping grounds
so established; provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to
prohibit the deposit of ordinary stable manure on any private lot or parcel of
land for fertilizing purposes only, and, if established, it shall be unlawful
for any person to remove to and deposit upon any lot or parcel of land other
than such dumping grounds any straw, manure, leaves, ashes, or other rubbish
contrary to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   The Commissioner of Streets and Public Property or the officially
designated law enforcement department may take such measures as to the
spreading, burning, and covering of the rubbish deposited, as provided in
division (A) above, as they may deem necessary, or the Health Officer may
advise.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29 DUMPING GROUNDS; OPERATION.
   If dumping grounds are established by the city, they shall be operated by
the city or by a private individual under contract with the city, and all
garbage or other material deposited on said grounds shall be buried in
accordance with recognized land fill methods and in full compliance with all
health and sanitary regulations of the city or the state, and the fees for the
use of such grounds shall be as provided by resolution of the City Council or
by contract with such private individual.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 COMMERCIAL GARBAGE AND RUBBISH HAULERS.
   (A)   License. It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to haul or
transport any garbage, rubbish, or waste materials through or upon any street
or alley of this city unless he, she, or it has contracted with or is employed
by the city, with said contract or employment in full force and effect,
authorizing him or her to do so as provided in this subchapter. All contracted
solid waste haulers shall provide to the city proof of liability insurance in
the amount of $1,000,000 or provide a performance bond in the amount of
$1,000,000.
   (B)   Sanitary regulations. Every contracted or employed garbage hauler
shall obey all federal, state, or municipal rules and regulations relative to
the hauling of garbage and rubbish.
   (C)   Equipment. Every commercial garbage hauler shall use watertight truck
bodies or watertight containers. The trucks would be equipped with a leakproof
mechanical operated packer which will not permit any leakage or spilling, and
such truck or trailer shall be so covered so that trash, garbage, or rubbish
shall be so covered so that trash, garbage, or rubbish will not be dropped or
spilled in transit any place in the city.
   (D)   Disposal of garbage. All garbage or rubbish collected by a commercial
garbage hauler from the area set forth in this subchapter shall be disposed of
in such a manner and in such a place as may be directed by the city. Any
commercial garbage hauler shall obey all rules and regulations as may be from
time to time promulgated by the city with reference to the disposal of garbage
and rubbish.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 SPRING AND FALL CLEAN-UP SCHEDULE.
   The city may schedule a period of time in the spring and a period of time in
the fall of each year for special pickup of leaves, tree branches, and similar
type of rubbish.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990)
§ 52.32 GARBAGE COLLECTION RATES.
   (A)   Residential rates. Twenty seven dollars and fifty three cents for all
non-commercial property with both electric and water meters with the exception
that such property will not be charged an additional garbage charge if such
property adjoins an electric and water metered residence.
   (B)   Small business rates. A minimum of $35.98 per month for a business
that shares a dumpster.
   (C)   Commercial rates.
      (1)   If more than one two-yard dumpster is needed, the following charges
shall be assessed:
         (a)   One two-yard dumpster per customer: $101.98 per month;
         (b)   Two two-yard dumpsters per customer: $203.96 per month;
         (c)   One four-yard dumpster per customer: $203.96 per month;
         (d)   Two four-yard dumpsters per customer: $407.94 per month;
         (e)   One six-yard dumpster per customer: $305.94 per month;
         (f)   Two six-yard dumpsters per customer: $611.88 per month;
         (g)   One eight-yard dumpster per customer: $407.92 per month; and
         (h)   Two eight-yard dumpsters per customer: $815.84 per month.
      (2)   If more than one business place shares the dumpster(s), the charge
shall be divided amongst them, except that in no event shall a business be
assessed less than $32.56 a month.
   (D)   Rates for outside city limits.
      (1)   If the customer wishes the city to supply them with a dumpster and
pick up, the charge will be:
         (a)   Residential. One two-yard dumpster per customer: $116.94 per
month; and
         (b)   Commercial.
            1.   One two-yard dumpster per customer: $132.38 per month;
            2.   Two two-yard dumpsters per customer: $264.76 per month;
            3.   One four-yard dumpster per customer: $264.76 per month;
            4.   Two four-yard dumpsters per customer: $529.52 per month;
            5.   One six-yard dumpster per customer: $397.14 per month;
            6.   Two six-yard dumpsters per customer: $794.28 per month;
            7.   One eight-yard dumpster per customer: $529.76 per month; and
            8.   Two eight-yard dumpsters per customer: $1,059.52 per month.
      (2)   This price applies to customers within a one-mile limit of the
city.
   (E)   Additional rates. In the event that the city is required to provide
additional clean-up services because the garbage is not placed in the garbage
containers, the customers using that garbage container may each be charged an
additional fee of $20 per month. Prior to the assessment of additional fees,
the city will give written notice to the users of the garbage container that
additional fee will be charged if the garbage is not placed in the container.
If the problem continues after notice, the city may discontinue utilities until
the problem is corrected.
(Ord. 331, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
52.15 through
52.32 shall be sufficient cause for revocation of the collector’s license, and
in addition thereof, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person who maintains or permits the maintenance of such nuisance
as described in §
52.16 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to fine of not exceeding $100.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-17-1990)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRICITY
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Construction, operation, and maintenance; allocation of revenues
   
53.02   Duties and liabilities of the city in supplying electrical power
   
53.03   Continuous service and power quality
   
53.04   Co-generation and small power production facilities
Electrical Rates
   
53.15   Residential rates
   
53.16   Commercial rates
   
53.17   Municipal rates
   
53.18   Demand rate
   
53.19   Special services
   
53.20   Residential security lights
   
53.21   Monthly collection
   
53.22   Violations
Cross-reference:
Electricity in trailer parks, see §
151.10
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE; ALLOCATION OF REVENUES.
   The city shall lease, purchase, acquire, or construct, operate, and maintain
a system or part thereof to provide electric energy for light, heat, and power
to all persons and property within the corporate limits of the city; and in the
carrying out thereof to purchase electric current from without the limits of
the municipality; to sell electric current to be transmitted to any point
without the municipality; and to maintain transmission lines for such purposes
without the municipality; to enter into a contract with the United States of
America for the purchase of electrical service which contract or contracts may
include agreements to purchase from the United States of America, electrical
energy for resale; to maintain and construct the necessary facilities for
transmission of electrical energy from any point within or without the
municipality; to allocate the net revenues from the plant operations to the
benefit of the municipality; to do all things necessary to carry out the
aforesaid activities, and engage in the same; to defend the city’s right to
engage in the above stated activities; and to expend revenues for such defense.
(Prior Code, § 15.0101)
§ 53.02 DUTIES AND LIABILITIES OF THE CITY IN SUPPLYING ELECTRICAL POWER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the city, in supplying electrical power to the
users of such power, to provide electrical power only to the meter which
measures the units of electricity. The city shall be responsible for furnishing
one 100-amp. electric service to any residential dwelling in the city.
   (B)   Any expenses incurred beyond this will be the responsibility of the
resident. Any resident requesting a security light(s) will be responsible for
all expenses incurred.
(Prior Code, § 15.0102)
§ 53.03 CONTINUOUS SERVICE AND POWER QUALITY.
   The city will not be responsible for failure to supply electricity or for
interruption of the supply if such failure is without willful fault on the part
of the city. When service is interrupted for the purpose of making necessary
repairs or changes in service facilities, it shall be made in such manner so as
to not unreasonably inconvenience the customer. Such interruption may be made
without notice, but if possible or practical, those customers affected shall be
notified in advance. The city shall not be liable to the customer for any
damages occasioned by interruption of service.
(Ord. 269, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 53.04 CO-GENERATION AND SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITIES.
   The city shall fully comply with and adopt by reference as if fully set
forth herein Heartland Consumers Power District Policy Number III-2, revised
and enacted by the Board of Directors of said organizations on July 6, 2015,
regarding the interconnection of co-generation and small power production
facilities. A copy of the policy shall be always available to the public at the
principal office of the city.
(Ord. 328, passed 3-7-2016)
ELECTRICAL RATES
§ 53.15 RESIDENTIAL RATES.
   (A)   The monthly rate for each kilowatt hour in which electrical energy
shall be supplied to residential users shall be $0.091 for all kilowatt hours.
   (B)   There shall be a monthly minimum charge of $18.90, plus tax, for each
residence, providing, however, that the term RESIDENCE, as used herein, shall
be construed to mean and to include a single- family residence and those
residences constructed or reconstructed to provide two, but not more than two,
family dwelling units. For multiple dwellings, apartment houses, or trailer
courts consisting of three or more dwelling units, unless each unit is
separately metered, the commercial rates hereinafter provided for shall be the
applicable rate to be charged by the city and paid by the consumer.
(Ord. 334, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 367, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 53.16 COMMERCIAL RATES.
   (A)   The monthly rate for each kilowatt hour at which electric energy shall
be supplied to consumers at all commercial establishments, for any purposes
whatsoever, shall be:
      (1)   For all kilowatt hours to 1,499 kilowatt hours: $0.128; and
      (2)   For all kilowatt hours over 1,500 kilowatt hours: $0.100.
   (B)   There shall be a monthly minimum charge of $27.30, plus tax, for each
commercial user of electricity.
(Ord. 334, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 367, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 53.17 MUNICIPAL RATES.
   The city shall bill itself each month for a residential rate on all
electrical meters for city purposes, except for the city liquor store, which
shall have applied the commercial rate as above stated.
(Prior Code, § 15.0403)
§ 53.18 DEMAND RATE.
   (A)   This rate applies to non-residential users who exceed 25-kilowatt
demand, or who generally use more than 7,500 kilowatt hours per month:
      (1)   All demand at: $8.61 per kilowatt; and
      (2)   For all energy used: $0.079 per kilowatt.
   (B)   There shall be a monthly minimum charge of $71.40, plus tax, for each
demand user of electricity.
(Ord. 334, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 367, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 53.19 SPECIAL SERVICES.
   A special service charge of $10 shall be made for all electrical service
renewals.
(Prior Code, § 15.0407)
§ 53.20 RESIDENTIAL SECURITY LIGHTS.
   The monthly rate for each security light, which is an unmetered electrical
use, shall be billed at the following rates:
   (A)   For 175-watt lights: $8.61 per month; and
   (B)   For 250-watt lights: $11.76 per month.
(Ord. 334, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 367, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 53.21 MONTHLY COLLECTION.
   Bills for electrical energy used shall be rendered monthly and shall be due
on the first day of each month and delinquent on the fifteenth day of the same
month. Electrical service shall be discontinued without notice after the
electrical bill has become delinquent, and interest shall accrue thereon at 18%
per annum. Meter reading dates shall be set by the City Council.
(Ord. 367, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 53.22 VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of §§
53.15 to
53.20 by residential and commercial users shall pay the following rate for each
kilowatt hour at which electric energy is supplied: $0.086 per kilowatt hour.
(Prior Code, § 15.0410)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   MOVING AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Pedestrians’ right-of-way
   
70.03   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
70.04   Accident reports
   
70.05   Police to direct traffic
   
70.06   Obedience to police
   
70.07   Warning tickets
   
70.08   Persons propelling pushcarts or riding bicycles or animals shall obey
traffic regulations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department (fire patrol),
police vehicles of municipal departments, or public service corporations as are
designated or authorized by the Mayor.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation of curb and property lines at intersections, or any other portion
of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   DEPARTMENT. The officially designated law enforcement departments.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more streets or
highways which join one another at an angle, whether or not such street or
highway crosses the other.
   LANED STREET. A street, the roadway of which is divided into two or more
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle, as herein defined, which is self-propelled.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. All signals, not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of directing, warning, or regulating traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS. All signs and markings, other than signals, not
inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by a public body or official
having jurisdiction, for the purpose of guiding, directing, warning, or
regulating traffic.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has actual physical control of a vehicle.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon a
roadway or street, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading, or in obedience to traffic
regulations or traffic signs or signals.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of any designated department authorized to
direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic
regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or highway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway between the regularly
established curb lines or that part devoted to vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. Every way set apart for public travel, except footpaths.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden animals, herded animals, and vehicles while
using any street for purpose of travel.
   TRAVEL. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 10.0101)
§ 70.02 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any
unmarked crosswalk at the end of a block, except at the intersection where the
movement of traffic is being regulated by police officers, authorized city
authorities, or traffic control signals.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, it shall be unlawful
for the operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear to overtake and
pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10.0501) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person traveling upon any bicycle, motorcycle,
coaster, sled, roller skates, or any toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself
or herself, or his or her vehicle, to any other moving vehicle or streetcar
upon any road.
(Prior Code, § 10.0601) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
or death to any person, or involving damage to any property, shall immediately
stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible
but shall then forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene
of the accident until the operator has provided his or her name, address, and
registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving upon request, and if
available, exhibit his or her operator’s license to an official officer of a
law enforcement department.
   (B)   In any accident involving personal injury or death, or with damage to
the property of another, he or she shall immediately, by the quickest means of
communication, give notice of such accident to the law enforcement authorities.
(Prior Code, § 10.0602) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 POLICE TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   It shall be the duty of the officially designated law enforcement department
to enforce the provisions of this title. Officers are hereby authorized to
direct all traffic, either in person or by means of visible or audible signals,
in conformance with the provisions of this title, provided that, in the event
of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians,
officers may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the
provisions of this title.
(Prior Code, § 10.0201)
§ 70.06 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 10.0202) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 WARNING TICKETS.
   The officially designated law enforcement department is hereby authorized to
issue a warning ticket to any driver whose vehicle is in violation of SDCL
Title 32. Such warning ticket shall clearly designate the provision of law
which is being violated and shall provide for notification of the officially
designated law enforcement department when such violation is corrected. Such
correction shall be made no later than ten days after the date of the issuance
of warning ticket. The form and context of the warning ticket shall be at the
discretion of the officially designated law enforcement department.
(Prior Code, § 10.0204)
§ 70.08 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS OR RIDING BICYCLES OR ANIMALS SHALL OBEY
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Any person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon a
roadway and every person driving any animal shall be subject to the provisions
of this title applicable to the operator of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title with reference to the equipment of vehicles and except
those provisions which, by their nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 10.0205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this title, or failing to comply with any of the provisions
thereof, shall, upon conviction thereof, where no penalty or punishment is
prescribed in this section, title, or chapter containing such provision, be
punished by a fine of not exceeding $100 or by imprisonment in the City Jail
for a period not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in
the discretion of the court; provided, that in all cases where a fine is
imposed, the court may, in the event the fine is not paid, commit the person or
persons to the City Jail for a period of one day for each $3 of such fine.
(Prior Code, § 10.0603)
   (B)   The driver of the motor vehicle who shall unlawfully fail or refuse to
do any of the following shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $100 or
imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not to exceed 30 days or by
both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court; provided, that
in all cases where a fine is imposed, the court may, in the event the fine is
not paid, commit the person or persons to the City Jail for a period of one day
for each $3 of such fine:
      (1)   Comply with any lawful order, signal, or direction of an officer;
      (2)   Submit to any lawful inspection under this title; or
      (3)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.0203)
CHAPTER 71: MOVING AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Driver’s permit required
   
71.02   Drive on right side of street
   
71.03   Turning corners
   
71.04   Turning about
   
71.05   License plates
   
71.06   Cut out shall not be open
   
71.07   Lights
   
71.08   Spotlights
   
71.09   Low beam
   
71.10   Intoxication
   
71.11   Stopping for school bus
   
71.12   Vehicles shall not be driven on sidewalk
   
71.13   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicle
   
71.14   Backing around corners or into intersection prohibited
   
71.15   Reckless driving
   
71.16   Careless driving
   
71.17   Exhibition driving
   
71.18   Right-of-way at intersections
   
71.19   U-turn at intersections
   
71.20   Turning around in midblock prohibited
   
71.21   Right-of-way, left turn
   
71.22   Required condition of vehicles
   
71.23   Action required at stop sign
   
71.24   Action required at yield sign
   
71.25   Obedience to traffic signs and signals
   
71.26   Stop required before emerging from alley, building, or private road
   
71.27   General restrictions; speed
   
71.28   Speed limits
   
71.29   Speed zones established
   
71.30   Parking
   
71.31   Parking of vehicles with more than six tires
   
71.32   Parking and double parking
   
71.33   No parking zones
   
71.34   Parking in alleys
   
71.35   Parking in front of theaters
   
71.36   Engine brakes
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DRIVER’S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those expressly exempted by
statutes of the state or the statutes of the state of his or her residence, to
drive any motor vehicle upon any of the streets, highways, or alleys within the
city limits without first having secured and having in his or her possession an
operator’s permit or license so to do as provided by statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 10.0206) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF STREET.
   Upon all streets, the operator of a vehicle shall drive the same upon the
right half of the street and shall drive a slow-moving vehicle as closely as
possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the street unless it is impractical
to travel on such side of the street, and except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle subject to the limitations applicable to overtaking and passing
set forth in this title.
(Prior Code, § 10.0207) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 TURNING CORNERS.
   Automobiles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall pass and
turn the corner as near to the right hand curb as possible and to the left of
and inside the center of the street intersection. Automobiles turning to the
left into an intersecting street shall pass to the right of, and beyond the
center of the street intersection, before turning.
(Prior Code, § 10.0208) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 TURNING ABOUT.
   No automobile shall be operated upon the streets of the city without proper
signaling devices.
(Prior Code, § 10.0209) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 LICENSE PLATES.
   No person shall drive any automobile on any street or alley within the city
without having securely fastened on such vehicle state license plates in manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 10.0110) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 CUT OUT SHALL NOT BE OPEN.
   Every motor vehicle shall be provided with a muffler and the same shall not
at any time be disconnected, nor shall it be operated on any of the streets or
alleys of the city with the cut out open.
(Prior Code, § 10.0211) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 LIGHTS.
   Every automobile while being operated upon any street, alley, or public
ground within the city during the hours of darkness shall display at least two
lighted lamps on the front and two on the rear thereof, which rear lamps shall
display a red light plainly visible from the rear, the rays of which shall
shine upon the number plate carried upon the rear of such automobile in such
manner as to render the numerals thereon plainly visible. Provided, that each
motorcycle or motor bicycle shall be required to display but one lighted lamp
in front and on the rear of such vehicle while being operated during the hours
of darkness.
(Prior Code, § 10.0212) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 SPOTLIGHTS.
   No spotlight shall be lighted on any automobile while the same is being
operated on the streets or alleys of the city during the hours of darkness.
(Prior Code, § 10.0213) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 LOW BEAM.
   No automobile shall be operated on the streets or alleys of the city unless
equipped with headlight lenses or such mechanical devices as will properly
deflect or defuse the light so as not to permit glare from such headlight to be
thrown into the eyes of persons approaching such vehicle or being approached by
it.
(Prior Code, § 10.0214) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 INTOXICATION.
   No person, while in an intoxicated condition or under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or alcoholic beverage or drug, shall drive or operate, or
attempt to drive or operate or be in actual physical control of, a motor
vehicle upon the streets, alleys, or public grounds within the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.0215) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS.
   The operator of a motor vehicle upon a highway inside of a Business or
Residential District, upon meeting or overtaking from either direction any
vehicle used and designated as a school bus which is stopped on the highway for
the purpose of receiving or discharging any school children, shall stop before
reaching such school bus when there is in operation on said school bus flashing
lights and shall not proceed until such bus resumes motion, or until signaled
by the school bus driver to proceed, or the visual signals are no longer
activated, but in no event until it is safe to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 10.0216) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 VEHICLES SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 10.0217) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles giving
audible signal by a bell, siren, or exhaust whistle, the operator of every
vehicle shall immediately drive the same to a position as near as possible and
parallel to the right-hand edge or curb of the street, clear of any
intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle or vehicles shall have passed, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer or authorized city authority.
(Prior Code, § 10.0218) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 BACKING AROUND CORNERS OR INTO INTERSECTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back such vehicle
around a corner at an intersection or into an intersection of public streets.
(Prior Code, § 10.0219) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a street, avenue, or alley carelessly
and heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or without due
caution and circumspection, and at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger any person or property, shall be guilty of reckless
driving.
(Prior Code, § 10.0220) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.16 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle carelessly and without due caution, at a
speed or in a manner so as to endanger any person or property, not amounting to
reckless driving as defined in the previous section, shall be guilty of
careless driving.
(Prior Code, § 10.0221) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle within the limits of the city in such a
manner that creates unnecessary engine noise, tire squeal, skid, or slide upon
acceleration or stopping, or that stimulates a temporary race, or that causes
the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway, shall be guilty of
exhibition driving.
(Prior Code, § 10.0222) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The right-of-way rule as between vehicles at intersections is hereby
declared.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has fully entered the intersection.
   (B)   When two vehicles approach an intersection at approximately the same
time, the operator of the vehicle at the left shall yield the right-of-way to
the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The operator of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall
forfeit any right-of-way which he or she may otherwise have had.
(Prior Code, § 10.0223) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 U-TURN AT INTERSECTION.
   At any intersection, it shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to
turn such vehicle at the intersection in a half circle or as to proceed in the
opposite direction.
(Prior Code, § 10.0224) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.20 TURNING AROUND IN MIDBLOCK PROHIBITED.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to park in the
opposite direction or so as to proceed in the opposite direction at midblock.
(Prior Code, § 10.0225) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 RIGHT-OF-WAY, LEFT TURN.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required, may make such left turn, and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Prior Code, § 10.0226) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 REQUIRED CONDITION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any vehicle having a loud or offensive muffler shall be considered
illegal. Any vehicle not equipped with adequate brakes is prohibited from
operating in the city.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle operated within the city limits shall be equipped
with lights and horn as required by state law.
   (C)   License plates shall be clearly displayed on each end of vehicle, and
shall be kept clean and legible.
(Prior Code, § 10.0227) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.23 ACTION REQUIRED AT STOP SIGN.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer, authorized city
authority, or traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a
stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall come to a full stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersection of roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle which has entered or is approaching the intersection from another
highway and shall not proceed into the intersection until certain that such
intersecting roadway is free from oncoming traffic which may affect safe
passage.
(Prior Code, § 10.0228) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.24 ACTION REQUIRED AT YIELD SIGN.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a sign authorized by the City
Council bearing the word “yield” or “yield right-of-way” shall, in obedience to
such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or
shall stop if necessary and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
legally crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving, and to any vehicle
in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Said driver, having so yielded, may proceed, and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so
proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 10.0229) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.25 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disobey the instructions of any
official traffic sign or signal upon the street placed by the City Council,
unless otherwise directed by the police officer or authorized city authority.
(Prior Code, § 10.0230) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 STOP REQUIRED BEFORE EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, OR PRIVATE ROAD.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from a controlled or uncontrolled alley,
building, or private road shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving
onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across such alley,
building, entrance, road, or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk
area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to be entered where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, § 10.0231) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS; SPEED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on a street or
highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing or at a speed in excess of those fixed by §
71.28.
(Prior Code, § 10.0232) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.28 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any motor vehicle upon
the corporate streets of the city faster than 20 mph unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle past a school
zone, while children are present, faster than 15 mph.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle faster than 15
mph when approaching within 50 feet of a railroad crossing or highway
intersection or city intersection when the driver’s view is obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 10.0233) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.29 SPEED ZONES ESTABLISHED.
   The City Council is authorized and empowered to determine and establish upon
any street or highway within the city or any part thereof, restrictive speed
zones as indicated in the previous section if it is deemed necessary for the
safety and wellbeing of the pedestrians and vehicle operations.
(Prior Code, § 10.0234)
§ 71.30 PARKING.
   (A)   All parking of motor vehicles on Main Street of the city shall be
diagonal parking from Highway #12 to Fourth Street.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand, or
park such vehicle on any of the following places, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a
police officer or authorized city authority:
      (1)   Within an intersection;
      (2)   On a crosswalk;
      (3)   In front of a private driveway;
      (4)   On a sidewalk;
      (5)   Against direction of traffic; or
      (6)   In such a manner or under such conditions as leaves available less
than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that this provision shall not apply to the operator of a
vehicle stopped momentarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or materials if such stopping does not actually impede traffic.
(Prior Code, § 10.0235) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.31 PARKING OF VEHICLES WITH MORE THAN SIX TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to stand, park, or leave a loaded motor vehicle having
six or more tires on the streets of the city, except for mobile homes.
(Prior Code, § 10.0236) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.32 PARKING AND DOUBLE PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any vehicle to stop, stand, or park
such vehicle on the roadway so as to block any other vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge of a curb or a street, except when temporarily engaged in the
loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
(Prior Code, § 10.0237) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.33 NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to establish “no parking” zones or areas
upon one or both sides of any street or avenue when parking in such parking
areas or zones would, in its opinion, interfere with traffic, create a
hazardous condition, or be contrary to the public interest.
   (B)   Any such zones or areas shall be indicated by signs placed at the ends
of such restricted area or zone designated “no parking between signs” or by
painting the curb adjacent thereto with a solid yellow stripe, and no person
shall park a vehicle in any such area or zone in violation of any such sign or
yellow marking.
   (C)   Whenever in any such street or avenue of the city the curb is painted
with a solid yellow stripe by, or under the direction of city authorities, such
stripe or marking shall indicate a “no parking” area or zone, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to park a vehicle adjacent to such marking.
(Prior Code, § 10.0238) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.34 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in any public alley
within the zone of the fire limits of the city, as may now or hereafter be
fixed by ordinances of the city except that trucks and other vehicles may stop
in such alleys for the purposes of loading or unloading of merchandise or
materials.
(Prior Code, § 10.0239) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.35 PARKING IN FRONT OF THEATERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in that portion of
the street immediately in front of any theater or moving picture house, and the
extent of such restricted parking area shall be marked out by city authorities
with “no parking” signs at the ends of such restricted areas or by marking with
yellow paint on the curb or street.
(Prior Code, § 10.0240) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 ENGINE BRAKES.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to prohibit the excessive, loud,
unusual, or explosive use of engine and compressed air braking devices within
the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE is defined as
a dynamic brake, Jake brake, Jacobs brake, C-brake, Paccar brake, transmission
brake, or any other engine and subsequently releases that compression.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate
or cause to be used within the city any engine brake, compression brake, or
mechanical exhaust device to aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle
that results in excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle,
unless such use is to avoid imminent danger.
   (D)   Signs stating “vehicle noise laws enforced” or “engine brake ordinance
enforced” may be installed at locations deemed appropriate by the City Public
Works Department or the officially designated law enforcement department to
advise motorists of the prohibitions contained in this section, except that no
sign stating “vehicle noise laws enforced” or “engine brake ordinance enforced”
shall be installed on a state highway without a permit from the State
Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section shall be in full
force and effect even if no signs are installed.
   (E)   Emergency vehicles shall be exempt from this section.
(Ord. 325, passed 6-1-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.35, or failing to comply with any provisions thereof, shall, upon conviction
thereof, where no penalty or punishment is prescribed in the section, title, or
chapter containing such provisions, be punished by a fine of not exceeding $100
or by imprisonment in the County or City Jail for a period not exceeding 30
days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court;
provided, that in all cases where a fine is imposed, the court may, in the
event the fine is not paid, commit the person or persons to the City or County
Jail for a period of one day for each $3 of such fine.
(Prior Code, § 10.0241)
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
71.11 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not to exceed the sum of $100 or imprisonment in the City
Jail for a period not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 10.0216)
   (D)   Any person arrested or convicted shall be punished by a fine not less
than, nor more than $2 per mile over and above the set speed limit, but in no
event less than $10, or by imprisonment in the City Jail not more than, nor
less than, the time it takes to set off the fine at $3 per day.
(Prior Code, § 10.0233)
   (E)   A violation of §
71.36 shall be punishable by a maximum fine of $100. It shall be enforced
pursuant to §
10.99.
(Ord. 325, passed 6-1-2015; Ord. 329, passed 3-7-2016)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Skateboards
   
72.02   Bicycles
Snowmobiles
   
72.15   Definition
   
72.16   Designated streets and avenues
   
72.17   Regulations
   
72.18   Unnecessary noise
Motorcycles
   
72.30   Definition
   
72.31   License; permit
   
72.32   Passenger
   
72.33   Operation in parks
   
72.34   Parades
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 SKATEBOARDS.
   No person shall ride or propel a skateboard on any sidewalk adjacent to the
business section of Main Street in the city.
(Ord. 213, passed 12-7-1992) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 BICYCLES.
   (A)   Any person residing within the city may, if they so desire, secure a
license for said bicycle from the City Finance Officer upon making application
thereto and paying to the city a licensing fee of $2 per year.
   (B)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on any public street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public highway within the limits of the city:
      (1)   With another person on the handlebars or in any position in front
of the operator;
      (2)   In a fashion faster than is reasonable or proper with reasonable
regard for the safety of the operator and any person upon the public sidewalks,
streets, alleys, or other public rights-of-way;
      (3)   Unless such person shall observe all traffic signs and stop at all
stop signs;
      (4)   When the bicycle or rider is attached to any vehicle upon the
roadway;
      (5)   After sunset and before sunrise with a headlight visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from the front thereof for not less than 300 feet
indicating the approach or presence of the bicycle, firmly attached to said
bicycle and properly lighted, or without a yellow or red light or reflector
attached to and visible from 200 feet from the rear thereof; or
      (6)   Unless such person yields the right-of-way when riding on the
sidewalks to any pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 6.0301) Penalty, see §
72.99
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any engine-driven vehicle of a type which utilizes sled type
runners, wheels, or skis with an endless belt or tread or similar means of
contact with the surface upon which it is operated.
(Prior Code, § 10.0401)
§ 72.16 DESIGNATED STREETS AND AVENUES.
   No snowmobiles shall be operated upon the streets, avenues, or alleys of the
city except as follows: First Avenue East, First Avenue West, and Sixth Street
are to be used for access to and from the city. All snowmobiles may be driven
from the residence of the owner to the nearest designated street for access to
or from the city. All other operation is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 10.0402) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 REGULATIONS.
   All snowmobiles operated within the designated area in the city shall comply
with the provisions of SDCL § 32-20A.
(Prior Code, § 10.0403) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made
or continued with any such snowmobile any loud or unusual noise or any noise
which disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or
safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 10.0404) Penalty, see §
72.99
MOTORCYCLES
§ 72.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORCYCLE. Includes motorcycles, motorbikes, bicycles with motor
attachments, and all motor-operated vehicles of the bicycle or tricycle type,
whether the motive power be a part thereof or attached thereto, and having a
saddle or seat with the driver sitting astride or upon it, or a platform on
which the driver stands, but excluding a tractor.
(Prior Code, § 10.0301)
§ 72.31 LICENSE; PERMIT.
   No person shall operate a motorcycle on the public streets or highways
without a motor vehicle driver’s license or permit upon which a state testing
officer has certified that such person is qualified to operate such motorcycle.
(Prior Code, § 10.0302) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.32 PASSENGER.
   It shall be unlawful for an operator or driver of a motorcycle, while
operating on the streets or highways of this city, to carry any other person
thereon, except on a seat securely fastened to the machine to the rear of the
driver provided with foot rests or in a sidecar attached to the motorcycle and
designed with the purpose of carrying a passenger. The passenger shall wear all
of the safety equipment which is required for the operator of the motorcycle.
(Prior Code, § 10.0303) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.33 OPERATION IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a motorcycle in any municipal park or
recreation area in this city except upon normally traveled roads or roadways,
or in specifically designated areas.
(Prior Code, § 10.0304) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.34 PARADES.
   This subchapter shall not apply to vehicles used for special occasions such
as display, parade, exhibitions, and similar uses.
(Prior Code, § 10.0305)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.01 shall be guilty of a petty offense.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6.0302)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
72.15 through
72.18 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100 or be imprisoned in the City
Jail for a period not exceeding 30 days, or by both fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 10.0405)
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
72.30 through
72.34 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100 or be imprisoned in the City
Jail for a period not exceeding 30 days, or by both fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 10.0306)
(Ord. 213, passed 12-7-1992)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   CEMETERIES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Rabies control
   
90.02   Cats
   
90.03   Animals
Dogs
   
90.15   Dogs to be licensed and vaccinated
   
90.16   Dogs at large
   
90.17   Destruction of dogs running at large
   
90.18   Dog, disturbance of the peace
   
90.19   Number of dogs
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Every animal which bites a person shall be properly reported to the
officially designated law enforcement department, and shall thereupon be
impounded at the direction of the officially designated law enforcement
department for a period of not less than ten days. Such impoundment will be at
the shelter designated as the city animal shelter, or, at the owner’s option,
in a veterinary hospital of his or her choice located in the county, but in
either case it shall be at the expense of the owner. In the case of stray
animals, or in the case of animals whose ownership is not known, such
impoundment shall be at the shelter designated as the city animal shelter.
   (B)   The owner, upon demand made by the officially designated law
enforcement department, shall forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten a
human or is suspected of having been exposed to rabies for impoundment, the
expense of which shall be borne by the owner. Such animal may be reclaimed by
the owner, if it is adjudged free of rabies, upon payment of costs expended for
the daily care of such animal and a fee of $25.
(Ord. 182, passed 4-15-1988) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 CATS.
   (A)   (1)   Every owner or keeper of a cat within the city shall, on or
before January 1 in each year, cause such cat to be registered, numbered, and
licensed for a period of one year from January 1 at the cost of $1 for neutered
males and spayed females and $2 for un-neutered males and un-spayed females.
      (2)   The owner of a cat must show proof of a rabies vaccination for each
cat before said owner can get a license.
      (2)   Every cat, after being licensed, shall wear around its neck a
collar with a tag thereto affixed, which tag shall bear its registered number.
A cat that has lost its tag will have to be retagged at the same price of the
first at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   Any cat which is unlicensed, unvaccinated, or unclaimed, after
reasonable search for the owner, shall be destroyed in a humane manner by the
city.
(Ord. 192, passed 4-2-1990) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Animals running at large. No person shall allow any horses, cattle,
swine, sheep, or goats to run at large.
   (B)   Impounding. It shall be the duty of city authorities to take up and
impound any horse, mule, cow, sheep, goat, or hog, or other domestic animals
found running at large within the corporate limits of the city, and said city
authorities shall immediately notify the owner of or any other person having
the care, custody, and control of such animal that such animal has been
impounded. In addition to the penalty hereinafter provided for any violation of
this section, the owner of any such animal shall pay to the city a fee of $1 a
head for each and every head so impounded, and in addition, pay all expenses
incurred by the city in impounding and caring for and keeping such animal. This
section shall apply except where another ordinance provides otherwise.
   (C)   Keeping swine. No person shall keep or maintain any swine within the
platted portion of the city.
   (D)   Fowl in city. No person shall allow any ducks, geese, chickens, or
other domestic fowl to run at large, nor shall any person keep enclosed or
housed any geese, ducks, chickens, or other domestic fowl in any house, pen,
coop, or enclosure situated within the distance of one block of any dwelling,
house, or store, or other building which is used or occupied as the residence
of any person or within the city limits.
   (E)   Picketing animals. No person shall, within the city, stake out any
domestic animal.
   (F)   Tying horses or mules. It shall be unlawful for any person to tie,
hitch, or otherwise secure to anything whatever any horse, mule, team, or
vehicle with intention of leaving the same there standing on Main Street within
fireproof building limits of the city.
   (G)   Tying to trees. No person shall tie, hitch, or secure any animal or
animals to any growing trees within the corporate limits of the city.
   (H)   Cruelty to animals. Any person who shall, within the city, cruelly or
immoderately beat any horse, dog, cat, or any other animal or shall leave
standing exposed to inclement weather for an unreasonable time, such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.0112) Penalty, §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.15 DOGS TO BE LICENSED AND VACCINATED.
   (A)   Every owner or keeper of a dog within the city shall, on or before May
1 in each year, cause such dog to be registered, numbered, and licensed for a
period of one year from May 1. The owner of a dog must show proof of a rabies
vaccination for each dog before said owner can get a license.
   (B)   Every dog, after being licensed, shall wear around its neck a collar
with a tag thereto affixed, which tag shall bear its registered number. A dog
that has lost its tag will have to be retagged at the same price of the first
tag at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 6.0801) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 DOGS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to permit or suffer to run at
large within the limits of the city any dog or animal of the dog kind, whether
licensed or unlicensed. Any police officer or person of proper authority is
hereby authorized and empowered to impound any such dog or animal found running
at large in the violation of the provisions of this section. If a dog is
leashed and/or tied but left unattended, or is not in the control of the owner
or other responsible person, on a street, sidewalk, alley, or other public
place within the city limits, then the dog shall be muzzled to protect persons
and property.
(Prior Code, § 6.0802) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 DESTRUCTION OF DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   The police officer or city authorities in charge are hereby authorized
to employ, whenever he, she, or they deem it necessary, a sufficient number of
persons to capture and convey to the dog pound, and care for, kill, and dispose
of in the manner provided, all dogs found running at large contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter. All dogs captured and conveyed to the dog pound,
as established by the city, shall be kept with humane treatment and supplied
with sufficient food and water for a period of at least 24 hours, unless sooner
reclaimed by the owner or keeper thereof, as herein provided.
   (B)   When the owner or claimant of any dog so impounded shall desire to
redeem any dog from the dog pound, such dog may be released upon the payment to
the person in charge of such dog pound, the sum of $25 for the first time said
dog is impounded, the sum of $50 for the second time the same dog is impounded,
and the sum of $100 for all subsequent times said dog is impounded, plus the
cost of keeping said dog at the rate of $10 per day, and shall purchase a
license for such dog issued in the manner herein provided if the dog is not
already licensed, and the person in charge of the pound shall thereupon release
such dog to such owner or claimant. All fees are to be remitted by said person
to the City Finance Officer.
   (C)   At the expiration of 24 hours from the date of impounding such dog, if
the owner of the same shall fail or refuse to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter for releasing of the same, it shall be the duty of the person
in charge of such dog pound to destroy such dog and to cause it to be removed
and properly buried; providing that the owner of a licensed dog shall have 24
hours, notice in writing, after the expiration of said 24 hours, before the
same shall be killed or destroyed.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the persons in charge of said dog pound,
before destroying any dog under the provisions of this subchapter, to sell said
dog at a private sale to any person who is willing to pay a sum sufficient to
reimburse the city for all expenses of keeping said dog and fees provided
herein; provided also that such person shall pay to the city the license fee
for said dog.
   (E)   If any dog is of a vicious disposition or has dangerous habits, the
Mayor shall notify in writing the owner of, or possessor of, such dog to
confine such dog and if, thereafter, such owner or possessor fails to comply
with such notice, the police or authorized city authorities are authorized,
empowered, and directed to kill or cause to be killed such dog, whether found
running at large or upon the premises of the owner of such dog, forthwith, and
without impounding such dog.
(Prior Code, § 6.0803)
§ 90.18 DOG, DISTURBANCE OF THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a misdemeanor to permit or allow
any dog to bark or worry so as to disturb the peace of the inhabitants of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 6.0804) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 NUMBER OF DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons residing in the same
residence within the city to keep, maintain, or have in his or her custody or
under his or her control on any lot, group of connecting lots, or in any
premises, more than two adult dogs, for compensation or not, except for a pet
store duly licensed and in a commercially zoned area. For the purposes of this
section, an ADULT shall mean any dog six months of age or older.
(Ord. 255, passed 5-1-2000) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person guilty of violating §
90.01 will be fined $100 and be incarcerated in the jail for up to 30 days, or
be subject to both such fine or jail.
   (C)   Any owner of a cat who has failed to license and vaccinate the name as
required by §
90.02 shall be subject to a $5 fine.
(Ord. 182, passed 4-15-1988; Ord. 192, passed 4-2-1990)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
91.01   Burning
   
91.02   Gasoline, kerosene
   
91.03   Fireproof building limits
   
91.04   Building permits; fireproof
   
91.05   Construction
   
91.06   Nuisance
   
91.07   Cost of procedure
   
91.08   Exits to public halls
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Fireworks and explosives offenses, see §
130.12
Grain storage provisions, see §
93.20
§ 91.01 BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to set or cause to
be set or allow to be set upon their premises, or upon the public grounds,
streets, or alleys any fire between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
provided, however, that no fires shall be permitted on Sundays, and provided
further that no leaves shall be burned.
(Prior Code, § 5.0701) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 GASOLINE, KEROSENE.
   No person shall keep for sale, for any purpose whatsoever within the city
limits, any gasoline or kerosene except it be in compliance with the rules and
regulation of the National Board of Underwriters of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 5.0702) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 FIREPROOF BUILDING LIMITS.
   The following described lands are hereby designated and declared to
constitute the fireproof building limits of the city:
   (A)   The west half of Block 2;
   (B)   The east half of Block 3;
   (C)   All of Block 6;
   (D)   The west half of Block 7;
   (E)   The west half of Block 12;
   (F)   The west half of Block 16;
   (G)   The west half of Block 17, all of the original town; and
   (H)   The west half of Block 4, Northwest Townsite Addition.
(Prior Code, § 5.0703)
§ 91.04 BUILDING PERMITS; FIREPROOF.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to erect or cause to be erected,
alter, repair, or move any building situated within the fireproof building
limits of the city, or move any building into said limits, shall apply to the
City Council for a permit for such purposes, and shall furnish plans and
specifications for the City Council to determine whether such building,
alteration, repair, or proposed new building is in full compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, and if granted, such permit shall be signed by the
City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 5.0704) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 CONSTRUCTION.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect or cause to be erected within
the fireproof building limits of the city any building, or move or cause to be
moved any building situated within said limits or move or cause to be moved any
building into said limits, not having solid outer walls or cement, brick, tile,
stone, or other incombustible material, roofed with slate, tin, zinc, copper,
iron, or other fireproof roofing; nor rebuild any building situated within said
limits damaged 50% of its value by fire or otherwise, unless the outer walls
and roof shall be entirely composed of incombustible material.
(Prior Code, § 5.0705) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 NUISANCE.
   Any building or addition to buildings hereinafter erected or constructed or
moved within or into the fireproof building limits of the city in violation of
the provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and
it shall be the duty of city authorities to forthwith abate the same.
(Prior Code, § 5.0706)
§ 91.07 COST OF PROCEDURE.
   The cost of abating such nuisance shall be collected from the owner of the
property on which it is situated, and may be established as a lien upon said
real estate, building, or material thereof until paid; to be returned to the
County Auditor and collected in same manner as other real estate taxes are
collected.
(Prior Code, § 5.0707)
§ 91.08 EXITS TO PUBLIC HALLS.
   Every public hall designed to accommodate 250 people or more shall have at
least two exits, each at least five feet wide, and the doors to such exits
shall open outwards, and no chairs or seats shall be allowed in the aisles of
said hall when the audience is present therein.
(Prior Code, § 5.0708) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall upon conviction be fined not exceeding $100 and costs, or be
imprisoned in the City Jail not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5.0709)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Public Airports
   
92.01   Establishment
   
92.02   Supervision
   
92.03   Airport manager or operator
   
92.04   Airport facilities
   
92.05   General regulations, ground rules, and the like
   
92.06   Lessee to obey rules, governmental capacity
   
92.07   Additional regulations; authority to enforce
 
   
92.99   Penalty
PUBLIC AIRPORTS
§ 92.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city does hereby recognize and establish that certain area and tract of
land owned by the city and located in Section 9, Township 21 North, Range 27,
East of the B.H.M., in Corson County, South Dakota and commonly known as, and
used as, the McLaughlin Municipal Airport, as a municipal airport to be used
and developed for the public use and benefit as a public airport, and to
hereafter be known as “McLaughlin Municipal Airport.”
(Prior Code, § 9.0301)
§ 92.02 SUPERVISION.
   The McLaughlin Municipal Airport shall be under the supervision of the City
Council. Minor matters of supervision shall be under the supervision of the
Airport Committee, to be appointed by the Mayor from the members of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.0302)
§ 92.03 AIRPORT MANAGER OR OPERATOR.
   The City Council shall have authority to employ an airport manager or
operator under contract for the general management of the McLaughlin Municipal
Airport facilities and activities.
(Prior Code, § 9.0303)
§ 92.04 AIRPORT FACILITIES.
   The airport air strips, runways, and aprons shall at all times be maintained
for public use under rules and regulations as may be established by the City
Aeronautics Commission and/or Federal Aviation Administration. The City Council
may lease areas not used by the general public for public airport purposes and
operations for construction of aircraft hangars and other uses, as may be
approved by the City Council, State Aeronautics Commission, and Federal
Aviation Administration.
(Prior Code, § 9.0304)
§ 92.05 GENERAL REGULATIONS, GROUND RULES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All owners of aircraft shall be responsible for the mowing of grass
and weeds and removal of same for a distance of 20 feet on all sides of his or
her hangar. The foliage must be cut when reaching a height of not more than six
inches.
   (B)   No trash piles or barrels shall be permitted outside hangars.
   (C)   No material or machinery of any kind shall be piled or stored outside
of a hangar without a written permit from the airport manager or operator, the
City Council, or Airport Committee.
   (D)   No gasoline shall at any time be stored in any hangar for any reason.
All gasoline storage shall be confined solely to the tanks of aircraft within
the hangar, except commercial gasoline storage tanks or pumps as shall be
approved and allowed by the City Council.
   (E)   No machinery of any type or character shall be permitted on airport
property except during working operation of same unless:
      (1)   It can be housed within the aircraft hangar when not in use and/or
operation; or
      (2)   It be parked in a designated area on airport property for
convenience of seasonal work, such as spraying, mowing, raking and farming the
farm ground. No exceptions for overnight parking of machinery or equipment
shall be granted in the interest of aviation safety.
   (F)   No use or operation of machinery or equipment of any kind shall ever
be permitted upon air strips, runways, and apron, without the knowledge and
consent of the airport manager or operator, or the Airport Committee or City
Council.
   (G)   No fire shall willfully be started on airport property unless official
fire fighting equipment is standing by.
   (H)   The City Council shall have authority at any official regular or
special meeting thereof to make additional regulations and ground rules or
amend those herein specifically provided by resolution provided the same is not
inconsistent with the rules, regulations, and requirements of the State
Aeronautics Commission and Federal Aviation Administration. When adopted, such
rules or regulation shall be filed in the office of the City Auditor and shall
become effective as any other resolution and by posting a certified copy
thereof at the Municipal Airport at a place open to public inspection. The city
reserves the right to revoke, cancel, or change any or all said rules or parts
thereof. In any contingencies not specifically covered by these rules the City
Council shall be the arbitrators.
   (I)   No building or other improvement shall be constructed, installed, or
placed upon said airport property, except upon written application to the City
Council and approval thereof by a majority of the City Council; and the same
must conform to the current master plan for the airport and all City
Aeronautics Commission and Federal Aviation Administration requirements and
specifications.
   (J)   All buildings or other improvements constructed, installed, or placed
upon said airport property shall be painted in a good workmanlike manner and
shall be painted as often thereafter as is necessary to keep the premises in
good repair, neat, and clean.
(Prior Code, § 9.0305) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 LESSEE TO OBEY RULES, GOVERNMENTAL CAPACITY.
   (A)   In submitting any application to use the facilities of the airport,
each applicant shall state that the rules and regulations of the airport will
be followed and obeyed, and the privilege of using the airport and its
facilities shall be conditioned on the assumption of full responsibility and
risk by the user thereof and he or she shall release, hold harmless, and
indemnify the city, the City Council, their offices and employees from any
liability or loss resulting from such use, as well as against claims of third
persons who use the airport.
   (B)   The exercise of the privilege of use shall constitute an
acknowledgment that the city and City Council maintain said airport in a
governmental capacity.
(Prior Code, § 9.0306)
§ 92.07 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS; AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   The federal, state, and local laws, and ordinances pertaining to
intoxicating liquors and narcotics, will be respected by all persons connected
with the Municipal Airport, under penalty of arrest, revocation of license, and
withdrawal of privileges as herein stated in this chapter.
   (B)   The airport manager or operator and/or any and all other law
enforcement officers will have authority to enforce all rules and regulations
contained herein. Any person violating these rules or refusing to comply
therewith will be subject to the penalties provided by law and this chapter,
and the enforcement of this chapter shall be under the jurisdiction of the
city, police magistrates, and other courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   The air traffic rules of the Department of Commerce are hereby made a
part of this chapter and by reference incorporated herein.
   (D)   The airport manager or operator, Airport Committee, or City Council
shall have authority to give written notice of any violation requiring the
violator to comply with this chapter within 24 hours after personal service
thereof, or, if the violator cannot be found, said notice may be posted upon
the object in violation for a period of 24 hours, and if the owner shall not,
within said 24 hours, be in compliance, the airport manager or operator,
Airport Committee, or City Council may order the violation abated forthwith and
the cost thereof charged to the persons causing or responsible for such
violation. The abatement of a violation shall not relieve the person, firm, or
corporation in violation from liability and penalty for such violation as
herein provided, as being a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.0307) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter or failing to comply with any of the provisions thereof shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more than $100 or imprisonment in
the City Jail for not more than 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 9.0307)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Littering
   
93.02   Weeds
   
93.03   Dumpgrounds
Nuisances Dangerous to Health
   
93.15   Offensive substance
   
93.16   Offensive sewage
   
93.17   Miscellaneous garbage
   
93.18   Privies
   
93.19   Chemicals
   
93.20   Grain storage
   
93.21   Abatement
Abandoned Vehicles
   
93.35   Definitions
   
93.36   Storing, parking, or leaving dismantled or other such motor vehicles
declared nuisances; exceptions
   
93.37   Storing, parking, or leaving dismantled or other such motor vehicles on
public property prohibited
   
93.38   Removal
   
93.39   Notice to owners
   
93.40   Sale of unclaimed motor vehicle
   
93.41   Notice of sale
   
93.42   Lien for costs
   
93.43   Title may vest in city, when
   
93.44   Duty of private property owners
   
93.45   Notice to remove
   
93.46   Notice procedure
   
93.47   Racing or antique vehicles
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to throw, pile, or deposit on
or upon any street, public park, or private way used by automobiles, vehicles,
or persons any shavings, sawdust, paper, leaves, ashes, manure, straw, rubbish,
glass, bottles, tin cans, scrap iron, paper, or any other substances that may
be or is calculated to injure any person or persons, animals, automobiles or
vehicles of any description, or that may or is calculated to detract from the
beauty of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0201) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 WEEDS.
   (A)   Noxious weeds. No person owning or occupying any lots, parcel or
parcels of ground or land within the corporate limits of the city shall permit
or suffer any noxious or deleterious weed or growth.
(Prior Code, § 5.0601)
   (B)   City authorities may cut weeds. In addition to the penalty hereinafter
provided for the violation of any of the provisions of this code, city
authorities may cause said weeds or growth to be cut and removed from said
premises, and the expense thereof shall be and remain a lien against said real
estate until paid, to be returned to the County Auditor and collected in the
same manner as other taxes are collected.
(Prior Code, § 5.0602)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DUMPGROUNDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation,
whether resident or non-resident, to use the City Dumpgrounds at any time
except as permitted by resolution made from time to time by the City Council.
The City Council may, by resolution, allow use of the City Dumpgrounds by other
municipalities or organizations upon a contractual agreement setting forth the
guidelines for such use and the fees charged for such fees.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to
do any dumping of car bodies, cement, tree trunks, or tree limbs at the City
Dumpgrounds except that three trunks or limbs that are cut into length of five
feet or less may be dumped at said dumpgrounds.
   (C)   Any person, persons, firm, or corporation wishing to dispose of any
garbage or rubbish which cannot be disposed of in the normal course of disposal
as set forth in this section or in §§
52.15 to 52.32, or which consists of petroleum products, chemical waste,
medical waste, or large building materials may dispose the same at the city-
operated dumpgrounds only after seeking and obtaining specific authorization
from the City Council or its designee. Such authorization may require special
appointment for the disposal of the same.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, except an officer or
employee of the city, duly authorized so to do by City Council to set or cause
any fire to be started so as to burn any material or materials dumped, placed,
or found upon the City Dumpgrounds or any part thereof.
(Ord. 196, passed 10-1-1990) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Solid waste disposal, see
Ch. 52
NUISANCES DANGEROUS TO HEALTH
§ 93.15 OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCE.
   No occupant or owner of any building or lot in the city shall permit any
dead carcass, carrion, or other offensive, nauseous, or unwholesome substance
to be in or remain in such building or upon the surface of such lot for any
period exceeding over 24 hours; and no person, firm, or corporation shall
throw, drop, deposit, or leave any dead carcass, carrion, or other nauseous or
unwholesome matter or rubbish of any kind, in or upon any public street, alley,
or sidewalk or other public ground within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0301) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 OFFENSIVE SEWAGE.
   No person shall suffer or permit any house, barn, cellar, vault, private
drain, cesspool, or privy upon any premises belonging to him or her or occupied
by him or her within the limits of the city to become nauseous or offensive or
injurious to public health.
(Prior Code, § 5.0302) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 MISCELLANEOUS GARBAGE.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, store, or cause to collect any rubbish,
garbage, junk, litter, ashes, or any and all other substances or combination of
articles upon any lot or premises or within any building confine whether owned
by them or another, which said rubbish, garbage, junk, litter, or other
substance presents a fire hazard or substantially detracts from the appearance
and cleanliness or the community or becomes a health hazard to the community.
   (B)   No person shall permit ashes, coals, or other similar hurtling or
burned material substances to be placed in anything other than a fire proof
container which shall be fully covered or otherwise maintained in such a
fashion as to prevent live embers, coals, or ashes from blowing out of or
leaving such container thereby causing a risk of fire.
   (C)   No person shall store, stack, or permit to be stored, or stacked,
wood, coal, hay bales, straw bales, or any other combustible material anywhere
within the city limits, unless the material shall be neatly stored, stacked, or
placed a distance of at least ten feet from any house, garage, mobile home, LP
gas tank or fuel tank, building, fence, or any other structure, and further,
that any such material shall be caused to be elevated at least six inches from
the ground.
(Ord. 161, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 PRIVIES.
   It shall constitute and is hereby declared a nuisance to erect or maintain
any privy, cesspool, or septic tank within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 5.0304) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 CHEMICALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to fill
tanks or other receptacles with water directly from the city water supply when
said tanks or receptacles have, will have, or have had therein chemicals or
substances which are or may be dangerous to consumers of city water. Any use of
city water for chemical mixes shall be made through a separate hookup, tank, or
other device which completely prohibits danger of such chemicals or substances
entering the city water supply or lines.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle or equipment
used with such chemicals or substances on the streets, alleys, or public ways
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0305) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.20 GRAIN STORAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to store,
warehouse, or otherwise permit the standing of grain, anywhere within the city
limits south of U. S. Highway 12. There is specifically excluded from the
operation of this statute all elevators or grain storage facilities in
existence as of January 1, 1982.
(Prior Code, § 5.0306) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 ABATEMENT.
   Any violation of §§
93.15 to
93.21 shall be certified to the City Council by city authorities, or any
citizen, shall be determined to be a public nuisance, and three days’ notice to
the owner or person in possession of the premises involved shall be given for
abatement of same. If said owner or person in possession shall fail to so
abate, city authorities shall forthwith proceed to abate said nuisance, and
costs of said proceedings shall be certified to the City Finance Officer, there
to stand as a lien against said premises, or to be collected in like manner as
taxes.
(Prior Code, § 5.0307)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 93.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE. A vehicle that is more than 30 years old and has historical plates.
   APPROPRIATE COVER. A cover specifically adapted and made to cover a car or
vehicle in a neat manner. Tarpaulins or tents are not acceptable.
   CITY. The City of McLaughlin, South Dakota.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle as defined herein which does not
have lawfully affixed thereto, an unexpired license plate or plates of the
condition of which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative,
or discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, campers,
and trailers.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not public property as defined herein.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley, or highway which shall include the
entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for
the purposes of vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other property which
is publicly owned by what is commonly defined as a public corporation or public
entity.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 93.36 STORING, PARKING, OR LEAVING DISMANTLED OR OTHER SUCH MOTOR VEHICLES
DECLARED NUISANCES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative,
junked, or partially dismantled motor vehicle or parts thereof, on private or
public property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as
such in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to any motor vehicle enclosed within a
building on private property or to any motor vehicle held in connection with a
business enterprise, lawfully operating within the city and properly operated
in the appropriate business zone, pursuant to the zoning laws of the city or to
any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adopted or designed for
operation on drag strips or raceways, or cars used for demolition derbies and
covered with an appropriate cover to screen it from view that remains on
private property, or any motor vehicle retained on private property by the
owner for antique collection purposes and covered with an appropriate cover.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.37 STORING, PARKING, OR LEAVING DISMANTLED OR OTHER SUCH MOTOR VEHICLES ON
PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the parking, storing, or
leaving of any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked, or
partially dismantled motor vehicle of any kind, whether attended or not, upon
any public property within the city.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.38 REMOVAL.
   (A)   Whether any police office or authorized city authority finds an
abandoned motor vehicle or an unattended motor vehicle which is in a wrecked,
dismantled, inoperative, junked, or partially dismantled condition on public
property within the city, the officer or city authority is hereby authorized to
provide for the removal of such motor vehicle to a garage or place of safety.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that causes an obstruction and hazard to traffic may
be removed at any time under the directions of the officially designated law
enforcement department.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 93.39 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty of the officially designated law enforcement department
to notify, by certified mail, the registered owner, if known, and if
encumbered, the lienholder, of the removal and storage of any motor vehicle
under the provisions of this subchapter and where such motor vehicle has been
stored. If the owner is unknown, a notice of removal and storage shall be given
by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, not
less than once a week for two consecutive weeks.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 93.40 SALE OF UNCLAIMED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   If, after three months from the date of mailing, the notice of removal and
storage provided by this subchapter, the motor vehicle shall remain unclaimed,
such motor vehicle may be sold by the officially designated law enforcement
department at a public auction upon notice to be published in the newspaper of
general circulation in the county, not less than once a week for two
consecutive weeks.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 93.41 NOTICE OF SALE.
   The notice of sale provided by this subchapter shall contain a description
of the removed and stored motor vehicle, including the year, make, model,
serial number, color, license number, if any, a statement that the motor
vehicle was found abandoned, the date thereof, and the place, date, and time at
which such motor vehicle shall be sold, which date shall not be sooner than one
week following the date of the last publication of the notice.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 93.42 LIEN FOR COSTS.
   The officially designated law enforcement department shall have a possessor
lien upon any motor vehicle removed under the provisions of this subchapter for
the costs in taking custody of and storing such motor vehicle.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 93.43 TITLE MAY VEST IN CITY, WHEN.
   If, after three months from the date of mailing or publishing the notice of
removal and storage provided by subchapter, the motor vehicle shall remain
unclaimed, the title to such motor vehicle shall be vested in the city and such
motor vehicle may be disposed of in any manner as may be provided by the City
Council. The proceeds of such disposal shall first be applied to the costs
incurred in the enforcement of this subchapter with the balance to be deposited
to the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 93.44 DUTY OF PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNERS.
   No person owning, in charge of, or in control of any real property within
the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow
any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked, or partially
dismantled motor vehicle on his or her property, a notice in writing shall be
served upon such person requesting the removal of such motor vehicle in the
time specified in this subchapter, and this person shall be responsible for its
removal.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.45 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Whenever it comes to the attention of the officially designated law
enforcement department that any person has an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled,
inoperative, junked, or partially dismantled motor vehicle on his or her
property, a notice in writing shall be served upon such person requesting the
removal of such motor vehicle in the time specified in this subchapter, and
this person shall be responsible for its removal.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.46 NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   The officially designated law enforcement department shall give notice of
removal to the owner or occupant of the private property where it is located.
It shall constitute sufficient notice, when a copy of the same is sent by
registered mail to the owner or occupant of the private property at his or her
last known address. The notice shall contain the request for removal within 14
days after the mailing of such notice, shall advise that failure to comply with
the notice to remove shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.47 RACING OR ANTIQUE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of private property shall have a motor vehicle
which is not covered with an appropriate cover which is in operable condition
specifically adopted or designed for operating on drag strips or raceways, or
cars used for demolition derbies or an uncovered motor vehicle retained on
private property for antique collection purposes, all as defined by §
93.35.
   (B)   For notice of violation of this section, the officially designated law
enforcement department will either send a notice by certified mail, or may
personally deliver a summons to appear in court for the violation by the owner,
tenant, or lessee, giving the time and date of both the violation and the date
of court appearance.
(Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §
93.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5.0201)
   (C)   Any person, persons, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
93.03 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $100 or by imprisonment for a
period of not exceeding 30 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
93.15 to
93.21 or, upon neglecting or refusing to abate or remove a nuisance as therein
provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5.0308)
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
93.35 to
93.47 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subjected
to a fine of $200 or imprisonment. Each day that such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such.
(Ord. 196, passed 10-1-1990; Ord. 296, passed 12-1-2008)
CHAPTER 94: CEMETERIES
Section
   
94.01   Grave adornments
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 GRAVE ADORNMENTS.
   (A)   From April 1 to October 1, cut and/or artificial flowers are permitted
in vases integrated into monuments. After October 1, all remaining flowers will
be removed and vases will be flipped for winter storage.
   (B)   Wreaths, potted plants, or floral arrangements are permitted for one
week following a service.
   (C)   For Memorial Day, all types and kinds of floral displays, including
cut flowers, potted plants, artificial flowers, wreaths, flags, and the like,
are permitted by Friday at 12:00 p.m., noon, prior to the holiday and for seven
days after Memorial Day. Cemetery personnel will remove wilted flowers from
gravesites. After this time, personnel will remove all decorations from
gravesites to facilitate mowing.
   (D)   Planting of any kind is not permitted.
   (E)   The city shall not be responsible for any stolen or damaged monuments,
adornments, decorations, or other items placed on or at any grave.
(Ord. 365, passed 9-19-2024) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter shall be
fined no more than $500 or serve no more than 30 days in jail, or both, in
accordance with SDCL 9-19-3. Each day any violation of this chapter continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 365, passed 9-19-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Slaughterhouses
   
110.02   Auctioneers, auctions
   
110.03   Peddlers and hawkers
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 SLAUGHTERHOUSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any, person, firm, or corporation to carry on the
business of slaughtering animals or rendering of any animal matter, or
manufacturing the same into fertilizing material by the use of heat or
otherwise at any place, within the city, except by permit of an ordinance
passed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.0501) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 AUCTIONEERS, AUCTIONS.
   (A)   Regulation. No person shall exercise the business or trade of an
auctioneer or sell any personal property, except household goods, livestock,
and used farm machinery, at public auction or outcry within the corporate
limits of the city without first having obtained a license therefore from the
City Finance Officer as prescribed by the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.0101)
   (B)   License fee. The license fee prescribed by this section shall be $50
per auction and shall be paid to the City Finance Officer by such applicant.
(Prior Code, § 6.0102)
   (C)   Exception. All sales at auction by virtue of legal process shall be
and hereby are excepted from the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.0103)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS.
   (A)   Regulation. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, directly or
indirectly, to peddle, hawk, offer for sale with future delivery, or sell in
any public street, lane, alley, market place, or other public ground, or from
any car or any railroad track in the city any goods, wares, merchandise, or
produce without first having obtained therefore the license prescribed by this
section.
(Prior Code, § 6.0201)
   (B)   Exception. Nothing in this section contained shall be construed to
preclude farmers or residents of said city from selling or offering for sale
within the said city produce of their own production or raising.
(Prior Code, § 6.0202)
   (C)   License fee. The license fee prescribed in this section shall be in a
sum of $25 per day, for each and every day such licensee operates under said
license.
(Prior Code, § 6.0203)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §
110.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined in the sum of not less than $50 and
costs, and not more than $100 and costs, or by imprisonment in the City Jail
not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 6.0104)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
110.03 shall, upon conviction, be fined in the sum of not less than $25 and
costs, and not more than $100 and costs, or shall be imprisoned in the City
Jail not more than 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 6.0204)
CHAPTER 111: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Alcohol
Cannabis Establishments
   
111.15   Purpose and intent
   
111.16   Definitions
   
111.17   License required
   
111.18   License application
   
111.19   Issuance of license
   
111.20   City neutrality as to applicants
   
111.21   Number of cannabis dispensaries
   
111.22   Expiration of license and renewal
   
111.23   Suspension
   
111.24   Revocation
   
111.25   Suspension and revocation process
   
111.26   Appeal
   
111.27   Licenses not transferable
   
111.28   Hours of operation for dispensaries
   
111.29   Liability for violations
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 ALCOHOL.
   (A)   No person shall sell, barter, or give away any beer or alcoholic
beverages within the city limits between the hours of 2:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.
Monday through Saturday, both inclusive, nor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. to
1:00 p.m. on Sunday. The business must close at 12:00 a.m. on Sunday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any establishment selling beer
or alcoholic beverages to have before him or her more than 32 fluid ounces of
beer or alcoholic beverages at one time, and it shall be unlawful for any
person selling said beer or alcoholic beverages within the city limits to
deliver more than 32 fluid ounces in open container or for consumption upon the
premises, to any person in said establishment at any one time.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-5-1998) Penalty, see §
111.99
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.15 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City Council enacts the following licensing ordinances in order to
ensure that cannabis establishments within the municipal boundaries of the city
operate in a manner which complies with state laws and regulations, protects
the health, safety, and welfare of the general public, prevents potential
conflicts and issues arising from ownership and employees, recognizes certain
safety and security considerations, and minimizes risk of unauthorized use or
access of cannabis by the general public.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 111.16 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless an alternative definition is explicitly stated in this section, this
subchapter utilizes the definitions for cannabis-related terms which are
defined by SDCL § 34-20G-1. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CANNABIS (MARIJUANA). All parts of any plant of the genus Cannabis, whether
growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying or curing
and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of marijuana
absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber produced from the
mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant.
The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L. and any part of that
plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids,
isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than 0.3% on a dry
weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, this
term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally authorized to
analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Health.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 111.17 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment license issued
by the city pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   A violation of this provision is subject to the general penalty
provision in §
111.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment registration
certificate issued by the Department pursuant to rules promulgated under SDCL §
34-20G.
      (2)   A violation of this provision is subject to the general penalty
provision in §
111.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a cannabis establishment license must be made on a
form provided by the city. No other application form will be considered.
   (B)   The applicant must submit the following:
      (1)   Application fee of $5,000. The city will reimburse $2,500 for
applicants who fail to obtain a registration certificate from the State
Department of Health; and
      (2)   An application that will include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The legal name of the prospective cannabis establishment;
         (b)   The physical address of the prospective cannabis establishment
that meets any location requirements pursuant to SDCL § 34-20G and the
administrative rules promulgated thereunder;
         (c)   The name, address, and birth date of each principal officer,
owner, and board member of the proposed cannabis establishment;
         (d)   A sworn statement that no principal officer, owner, or board
member has been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years
in any jurisdiction; and
         (e)   Any additional information requested by the city.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 111.19 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city will issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant has made a false statement on the application or
submits false records or documentation;
      (2)   Any owners, principal officer, or board member of the applicant is
under the age of 21 years;
      (3)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years in any
jurisdiction;
      (4)   The proposed location does not meet the applicable location
requirements;
      (5)   The proposed location does not meet all location requirements under
SDCL § 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder;
      (6)   The license is to be used for a business prohibited by state or
local law, statute, rule, ordinance, or regulation;
      (7)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
had a cannabis establishment license revoked by the city or a registration
certificate revoked by the state;
      (8)   An applicant, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties
assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to any cannabis
establishment; or
      (9)   The applicant will not be operating the business for which the
license would be issued.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a cannabis dispensary license, the
city will reject the application if the limit on the number of cannabis
dispensaries has been reached.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the cannabis establishment so that it may be easily read at any
time.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 111.20 CITY NEUTRALITY AS TO APPLICANTS.
   Upon request from the Department as to the city’s preference of all
applicants, the city will neither support nor oppose any registration
certificate application under consideration by the Department. Likewise, if
inquiry is made by the Department, the city will abstain from endorsing any
application as beneficial to the community.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 111.21 NUMBER OF CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   No more than two cannabis dispensaries shall be allowed to operate in the
city at any time.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 6-7-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license expires one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
111.18. Application for renewal must be submitted at least 30 days before the
expiration date. The license holder must continue to meet the license
requirements to be eligible for a renewal.
   (B)   The renewal fee is $5,000. The city will reimburse $2,500 for
applicants who fail to obtain a renewal of their registration certificate from
the Department.
   (C)   Failure to renew a license in accordance with this section may result
in additional fees. Upon expiration of the license, the city may order closure
of the cannabis establishment.
   (D)   If a license holder has not operated an establishment for which it
holds a license in the preceding 12 months, the license will not be renewed.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 111.23 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A license may be suspended if the license holder or an employee or
agent of the license holder:
      (1)   Violates or is otherwise not in compliance with any section of this
subchapter;
      (2)   Consumes or smokes, or allows any person to consume or smoke,
cannabis on the premises of the cannabis establishment; or
      (3)   Knowingly dispenses or provides cannabis or cannabis products to an
individual or business to whom it is unlawful to provide cannabis or cannabis
products.
   (B)   A license may be suspended if the license holder has its Department-
issued registration certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed by the
Department or if the registration certificate is expired.
   (C)   A license may be suspended if the license holder creates or allows to
be created a public nuisance at the cannabis establishment.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 111.24 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A license may be revoked if the license is suspended under §
111.23 and the cause for the suspension is not remedied.
   (B)   A license may be revoked if the license is subject to suspension under
§
111.23 because of a violation outlined in that section and the license has been
previously suspended in the preceding 24 months.
   (C)   A license is subject to revocation if a license holder or employee of
a license holder:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of non-cannabis
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   Operated the cannabis establishment or the business of the cannabis
establishment for which a license is required under this subchapter while the
license was suspended;
      (4)   Repeated violations of §
111.25;
      (5)   Operated a function of a cannabis establishment for which the
license holder was not licensed (e.g., a licensed cannabis cultivation facility
conducting cannabis testing functions without a cannabis testing establishment
license);
      (6)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state for any taxes
or fees related to the cannabis establishment;
      (7)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, has been convicted of, or continues to employ an employee who has been
convicted of, a disqualifying felony offense as defined by SDCL § 34-20G;
      (8)   The license holder has his, her, or its Department-issued
registration certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed, or the
registration certificate is expired; or
      (9)   The license holder allows a public nuisance to continue after
notice from the city.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 111.25 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The license holder will receive a notice of intent to suspend or
notice of intent to revoke informing the license holder of the violation and
the city’s intention to suspend or revoke the license. The notice will be hand
delivered to the license holder or an employee or agent of the license holder
or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to the physical address of
the cannabis establishment.
   (B)   If the license holder disputes the suspension or revocation, the
license holder has ten days from the postmark date on the notice or the date
the notice was hand delivered to request a hearing before a hearing panel,
which will consist of the Mayor, Finance Officer, and Council President.
   (C)   A suspension will be for 30 days and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder exercises its rights to process and appeal, in which case the
suspension takes effect upon the final determination of suspension.
   (D)   A revocation will be for one year and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder appeals the revocation, in which case the revocation takes
effect upon the final determination of revocation.
   (E)   The license holder who has had the license revoked may not be issued
any cannabis establishment license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 111.26 APPEAL.
   (A)   An applicant or license holder who has been denied a license or
renewal of a license or who has had a license suspended or revoked under this
article may appeal to the City Council by submitting a written appeal within
ten days of the postmark on the notice of denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or
revocation. The written appeal must be submitted to City Hall, 106 First Ave.
W, McLaughlin, South Dakota, 57626.
   (B)   The appeal will be considered by the City Council at a regularly
scheduled meeting within one month of the receipt of the appeal.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 111.27 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No cannabis establishment license holder may transfer the license to any
other person or entity either with or without consideration, nor may a license
holder operate a cannabis establishment at any place other than the address
designated in the application.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR DISPENSARIES.
   No cannabis dispensary may operate between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m. any day of the week.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this
subchapter, an act by an employee or agent of a cannabis establishment that
constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation will be imputed to the
cannabis establishment license holder for purposes of finding a violation of
this subchapter, or for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation,
only if an officer, director, or general partner or a person who managed,
supervised, or controlled the operation of the cannabis establishment,
knowingly allowed such act to occur on the premises.
(Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person guilty of violating §
111.01 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person who operates or causes to be operated a cannabis
establishment without a valid license or in violation of §§
111.15 to
111.29 is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for ordinance
violations. Such violations are punishable by a maximum fine of $500. Each day
a cannabis establishment so operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 2021-355, passed 9-7-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Carrying concealed weapons
   
130.02   Open container
   
130.03   Disorderly conduct
   
130.04   Disturbing the peace
   
130.05   Indecent exposure of person
   
130.06   Profanity
   
130.07   Prostitution
   
130.08   Resisting, escaping from, or assaulting an officer
   
130.09   Displaying license unlawfully
   
130.10   Air rifles, slingshots, or any pellet gun prohibited
   
130.11   Burglar tools
   
130.12   Firearms, fireworks, and explosives
   
130.13   Hindering or molesting passerby
   
130.14   Crowds on street
   
130.15   Crowds may be dispersed
   
130.16   Destroying property
   
130.17   Minors
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall carry concealed about his or her person any pistol or
other firearm, slingshot, brass knuckle or knuckles or other material, or any
sandbag, dagger, bowie knife, dirk knife, or other dangerous or deadly weapon,
or any instrument or device which when used is likely to produce death or great
bodily harm.
   (B)   Any peace officer may wear or carry such weapons as may be necessary
and proper for the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7.0101) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 OPEN CONTAINER.
   Any person who shall, within the corporate city limits, be found on the
street, or in the city park, or in a motor vehicle, have an open container with
any alcoholic beverage in that container shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.0102) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall conduct himself or herself in any unseemly manner or way or
in any manner tending to degrade, and unsuited to the promotion of the morals,
health, or comfort of the inhabitants of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0103) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the peace of the city or of any person by violent,
tumultuous, or offensive conduct, or by loud or unusual noises or by profane,
obscene, indecent, violent, or threatening language, or by assaulting,
striking, or attempting to assault or strike another person, or inviting or
defying another person to fight or quarrel, or by willfully and maliciously
destroying or attempting to destroy or injure any property belonging to
another, or by engaging in a fight with another.
(Prior Code, § 7.0104) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 INDECENT EXPOSURE OF PERSON.
   No person shall appear in any public place in a state of nudity, nor make
any indecent exposure of his or her person.
(Prior Code, § 7.0105) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 PROFANITY.
   No person shall use any profane, vulgar, or obscene language upon any street
or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 7.0106) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 PROSTITUTION.
   Any person who, for the purpose of prostitution or lewdness, resorts to use,
occupies, or inhabits any house of ill fame, or place kept for the purpose of
prostitution or lewdness, and every person found in any hotel, boarding house,
or any other place within the corporate limits of the city, leading a life of
prostitution or of lewdness, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.0107) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 RESISTING, ESCAPING FROM, OR ASSAULTING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall resist or obstruct any police officer in the performance of
any official duty, nor in any way aid or assist any person to resist or escape
from any such officer, nor assist any person to escape from any lawful
confinement. No person shall assault or strike any police officer in the
discharge of his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 7.0108) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 DISPLAYING LICENSE UNLAWFULLY.
   No person shall carry or display any city license or permit which has been
terminated or revoked or which has not been lawfully procured and issued.
(Prior Code, § 7.0109) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 AIR RIFLES, SLINGSHOTS, OR ANY PELLET GUN PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air rifle, beebee gun,
pellet gun, compressed air gun, or gas gun, or use any slingshot or any device
of like character within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0110) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 BURGLAR TOOLS.
   Any person who shall have in his or her possession or under his or her
control any nippers, pick lock, skeleton key, key to be used with bit or bits,
jimmy, or other burglar’s instruments or tools of whatsoever kind or
description within the limits of the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
unless it be shown that such possession or control is innocent or for a lawful
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7.0111) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 FIREARMS, FIREWORKS, AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or shoot off any gun, pistol, or any other
firearm within the corporate limits of the city unless permitted by act of the
City Council in firing ranges.
   (B)   The term FIREWORKS, as referred to in this section, shall include
firecrackers, torpedoes, Roman candles, toy cannons, detonating canes, blank
cartridges, sky rockets, or other pyrotechnic displays, but shall not include
or apply to ammunition for firearms nor to dynamite and devices for exploding
the same used, in any industry or for the same, and not used or kept for public
display.
(Prior Code, § 7.0113) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 HINDERING OR MOLESTING PASSERBY.
   No person shall, upon any street or at the entrance of any building on any
such street, alley, or sidewalk, wrongfully hinder, impede, or molest any
passerby, or use any rude, obscene, vulgar, indecent, or threatening language
to any passerby, or by any indecent act, gesture, or noise, molest, annoy, or
insult or put in fear, any person passing or attempting to pass on such street,
alley, or sidewalk or through the entrance to such building.
(Prior Code, § 7.0114) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 CROWDS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to gather in crowds or groups on any public
thoroughfare, street, or sidewalk in the city in such manner as to obstruct
free passage thereon or to annoy any other persons passing thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7.0115) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 CROWDS MAY BE DISPERSED.
   Officers of the city’s officially designated law enforcement department are
authorized, and it shall be their duty to disperse any crowd violating the
provisions of the preceding section of this chapter and to summarily arrest any
person or persons in case he, she, or they refuse to disperse, when so ordered,
or fail to obey any reasonable direction given by such officers.
(Prior Code, § 7.0116)
§ 130.16 DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully damage, deface, break, destroy, or interfere with
the property of the city or of another person.
   (A)   Interference with city property. No person shall climb on or in any
manner interfere with or tamper with any building, structure, vehicle, or other
equipment belonging to the city without being authorized by the City Council,
and no person shall operate any such city vehicle without authority of the City
Council.
   (B)   Digging or removing sod, earth, gravel from city property. It shall be
unlawful for any person to dig any hole, drain, or ditch in any street, avenue,
or alley, park, or public ground in the city without written permission from
the City Council.
   (C)   Injuring pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk, sewers. It shall be unlawful
for any person to injure or tear up any pavement, sidewalk, or crosswalk, drain
or sewer, or any part thereof, or who shall dig any hole, ditch, or drain in
any street, pavement, or sidewalk without due authority from the City Council.
   (D)   Injuring signs. No person shall deface, remove, change, mar, or in any
way interfere with or obliterate, either wholly or in part, any sign, traffic
sign, signboard, or card placed, posted, extended, or erected by the city.
   (E)   Defacing property. No person shall willfully injure or destroy any
fences, guide posts, sign board or awning, or any tree, bush, or shrub, or
destroy any cultivated fruits or vegetables, ornamental trees, shrubs, hedges,
vines, or flowers, nor injure or carry off any of the products thereof which
are the property of another.
   (F)   Building materials in sidewalks, streets, or alleys. It shall be
unlawful for any person or persons to place or deposit, or cause to be placed
or deposited, any stone, timber, or other material for the purpose of building
in or upon any street or alley within the limits of the city so as to occupy or
obstruct more than half of the sidewalk not more than one-third of the street
in front of his or her lot, nor more than one-third of any alley. No such
material, lumber, or stone shall be permitted to remain in or upon any such
street, alley, or sidewalk for a longer period than ten days without the
written consent of the City Council therefor.
   (G)   Shall keep and maintain lights. Any person, firm, or corporation
depositing or keeping building material in any street, alley, or sidewalk, or
other public ground, under a permit from the Mayor, shall, during every night
while such material may be remaining, keep two or more lighted lanterns so
placed that such material may be easily seen by persons passing or driving
along such street, alley, sidewalk, or other public ground.
(Prior Code, § 7.0117) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 MINORS.
   (A)   Loitering of minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any minor
under the age of 18 years to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play, ride, or be
in any motor vehicle, in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys,
parks, public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or
other unsupervised places, or to be or remain in any dance hall, restaurant,
café, theater, or other public place between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. of the following day, official city time, on any day except Friday and
Saturday, and between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. of the following
day on Friday and Saturday; provided however, that the provisions of this
section do not apply to the minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian,
or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or where the
minor is upon an emergency, errand, or legitimate business directed by his or
her parent, guardian, or other adult having the care and custody of the minor,
unless exempted under division (D) below.
   (B)   Proprietor or manager of a public place. Any proprietor or manager of
any show, movie, entertainment, public dance, or other place of amusement in
the city, or within a mile of the corporate limits thereof who shall suffer any
child unaccompanied by an adult member of his or her family or his or her
guardian, to remain at said show, movie, entertainment, dance, or other
amusement after hour named in division (A) above shall be subject to §
130.99, unless exempted under division (D) below.
   (C)   Responsibility of parent and guardian. It shall be unlawful for the
parent or guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor
who has not reached the age of 18 years to knowingly allow him or her to ride
in any motor vehicle in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys,
playgrounds, or other public grounds, public areas, and public buildings,
places of amusements and entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised
places, or to be or remain in any dance hall, restaurant, café, theater, or
other public place between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day, official city time, on any day except Friday and Saturday, and
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day on Friday and
Saturday; provided however, that the provisions of this section do not apply
when the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an
emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor,
unless exempted under division (D) below.
   (D)   Exemptions. It is an exemption to a violation under this section that
the person engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence, or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to city
authorities about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 7.0118) (Ord. 205, passed 9-16-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this chapter or failing to comply with any provisions thereof shall, upon
conviction thereof, where no penalty or punishment is prescribed in the
section, title, or chapter containing such provision, be punished by a fine of
not exceeding $100 or by imprisonment in the County or City Jail for a period
not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion
of the court; provided, that in all cases where a fine is imposed, the court
may, in the event the fine is not paid, commit the person or persons to the
City or County Jail for period of one day for each $3 of such fine.
(Prior Code, § 7.0119) (Ord. 205, passed 9-16-1991)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PUBLIC WAYS
      
151.   TRAILER PARKS
      
152.   ZONING AND CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 150: PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Trenching
   
150.02   Curbs and sidewalks
   
150.03   Planting trees
   
150.04   Trimming trees
Moving Buildings
   
150.15   Moving buildings on streets
   
150.16   Moving structures
   
150.17   Excavating property
Snow Removal Generally
   
150.30   Removing snow
   
150.31   City may remove snow
   
150.32   Vehicles to be moved
Winter Road Maintenance Policy
   
150.45   General
   
150.46   Roads and public areas
   
150.47   Determination of need for maintenance
   
150.48   Plowing
   
150.49   Private plowing
   
150.50   Parking
   
150.51   Salt and sand mixture
   
150.52   Mailboxes
   
150.53   Complaints
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TRENCHING.
   Before any person, corporation, partnership or association shall commence
any trenching on or in the streets, alleys, or any private property in the
city, he or she shall secure a permit from the city. Before a permit shall be
issued, the person applying shall file with the city a cash bond of $2,500 or
furnish a liability insurance policy to be approved by the city to cover any
damage that might be incurred.
(Prior Code, § 9.0601) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The City Council shall have authority to make regulations regarding
construction and maintenance of sidewalks and curbs within the corporate limits
of the city.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall build or cause to be built, within the corporate
limits of the city, sidewalks or curbs except as herein provided: said person
shall file a written application for permit to build said sidewalks or curbs,
and agree to build same in accord with specifications as set up by the City
Council.
      (2)   Said specifications shall be abided by, and if any person shall
make improvements without written authorization from the City Council or
without abiding by regulations, said improvements may be removed and the owner
thereof required to properly construct same.
   (C)   In event sidewalks or curbs shall become obsolete and/or out of
repair, same may be declared by the City Council to be a nuisance and the owner
thereof required to repair same, and if he or she neglects or refuses, and the
City Council shall give him or her five days in which to commence repair, after
which time the City Council may repair same and the costs of said repair shall
be certified to the City Finance Officer there to stand as a lien upon said
property.
(Prior Code, § 9.0501) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 PLANTING TREES.
   All trees hereafter planted in the streets of the city shall be set eight
feet from the lot line of the abutting lots and two feet from curbline.
(Prior Code, § 9.0401) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 TRIMMING TREES.
   The occupant or owner of any private premises abutting upon any public
street shall keep all trees on such premises trimmed so that no bough or branch
shall hang lower than eight feet above the surface of said street or the
sidewalk thereon.
(Prior Code, § 9.0402) Penalty, see §
150.99
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 MOVING BUILDINGS ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall move any building from one
location to another through the streets or alleys of the city without first
obtaining a permit from the City Council, which permit may be authorized by the
City Council, and issued and signed by the City Finance Officer, and no permit
shall be issued for the moving of a building through the streets or alleys of
the city as provided in the section until the person, firm, or corporation
applying for such permit shall have deposited a certified check for at least
$50 with the City Finance Officer, or such larger amount as the City Council
may provide before having said permit issued, payable to the City of
McLaughlin, to cover any damage which may be caused to private or public
property by moving of such building through the streets or alleys of the city.
   (B)   No building being moved in compliance with the provisions of this
action shall be left standing in any street or alley overnight unless danger
signal lights are properly attached to said building while so standing in any
street or alley, which danger signals must burn from sundown to sunrise, and
under no circumstances shall any building while being moved as provided herein
remain in any street or alley for a longer period than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.0201) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 MOVING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall remove any existing structure
from any premises within the city unless he or she shall first acquire a
certificate from the City Finance Officer stating that there are no special
assessments or taxes against said premises.
   (B)   No person shall move or locate any building or structure upon any
foundation or upon a temporary site within the city without having first
acquired a permit to do so as set out at §
152.02.
(Prior Code, § 9.0202) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 EXCAVATING PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person may tear down, remove, demolish, or excavate a building by
pushing or depositing all or part of the building into the basement area and
covering the debris with dirt without:
      (1)   First removing the foundation during such excavation, removal, or
demolishing to a depth of two feet below the surface; and
      (2)   Erecting a fence, barrier, or other barricade fully surrounding
such open basement at a minimum height of 36 inches.
   (B)   Fences, barriers, and barricades shall be installed at the start of
any work to tear down, remove, demolish, or excavate all or any part of a
building and shall remain in place until the basement or excavation has been
completed and backfilled to match surrounding grade.
   (C)   The basement or excavation site must be backfilled to ensure it will
not be subject to settling due to decay or lack of compaction.
(Ord. 340, passed 8-14-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 150.30 REMOVING SNOW.
   The occupant of any premises in the city abutting on any public sidewalk (or
the owner if the same be not occupied) shall, within a reasonable time after
any fall, drift, or deposit of snow, remove all snow from the sidewalk adjacent
to said premises.
(Prior Code, § 9.0101) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 CITY MAY REMOVE SNOW.
   In case the owner of any premises mentioned in §
150.30 shall fail or refuse to remove any snow as provided in §
150.30, city authorities may cause said snow to be removed, and the expense of
removing the same shall be charged to such owner, and be and remain a lien
against said real estate until paid, to be returned to the County Auditor and
collected in the same manner as county taxes are collected.
(Prior Code, § 9.0102)
§ 150.32 VEHICLES TO BE MOVED.
   (A)   The city shall be responsible for snow removal on all city streets.
Snow removal by the city following snow fall or drifting of snow shall be made
on Main Street without notice to property owners, and vehicles on said street
shall be towed by the city at the expense of the vehicle owner with said
expense to be paid prior to being reclaimed by the vehicle owner.
   (B)   Vehicle owners shall be given 24 hours to remove vehicles from all
side streets for purpose of snow removal.
   (C)   Vehicles not moved in compliance with such notice shall be towed by
the city at the expense of the vehicle owner with said amount to be paid prior
to being reclaimed by the vehicle owner.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-7-1997)
WINTER ROAD MAINTENANCE POLICY
§ 150.45 GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of this policy is to set up acceptable procedures
and policies for winter maintenance of public areas as to snow and ice removal
in the city.
      (2)   This policy replaces all written or unwritten policies of any part
of the governing or employed body of the city.
      (3)   The existing ordinances for sidewalk and parking control are not
repealed.
   (B)   The intent of establishing the city winter road maintenance policy
concerning snow and ice is to provide a uniform understanding of the priorities
and procedures used to combat snow and ice related conditions. Each winter
storm has unique characteristics. Climatic factors such as storm intensity and
duration, wind, temperature, and moisture content affect the total amount of
snow and/or ice accumulation and influence the methodology used to combat the
resulting snow and/or ice related conditions.
   (C)   The timing of a storm will influence the removal of snow and ice. The
City Street Department has regular work hours, and if a storm requires
attention during weekends or holidays, this would require overtime. It can be
expected that service during off hours will be minimal and only provided when
extreme storm conditions arise or on intensely used areas and routes.
   (D)   The City Street Department endeavors to maintain adequate traction for
pedestrians and vehicles properly equipped for winter driving conditions. This
does not mean bare, dry pavement should be expected after each snowfall or ice
storm. Furthermore, this does not mean the streets will be free of ice and
snow.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.46 ROADS AND PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   Obviously, certain areas of the city have a greater intensity of use
and a priority for maintenance to serve the users. The concern for safety,
general welfare, and duration of travel requires that a priority be given to
certain areas over others.
   (B)   The following is a list of classes of areas, and the order to which
service will be directed beginning with Class 1 as first priority.
      (1)   Class 1. Business District shall include the downtown area streets
and alleys, including the street to the ambulance and fire hall.
      (2)   Class 2. Hospital and school routes shall include streets leading
directly to a hospital or school.
      (3)   Class 3. Residential streets are those streets which generally
carry traffic from one neighborhood to another portion of the city.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.47 DETERMINATION OF NEED FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The responsibility for ordering personnel or equipment into service
for a winter maintenance operation shall be primarily with the Street
Superintendent or his or her designee.
   (B)   The Mayor of the city may also direct the Street Department to
commence winter maintenance operations. The City Finance Officer shall receive
all complaints and forward same to the Street Superintendent during normal
working hours.
   (C)   Outside private equipment may be contracted for, if authorized by the
Mayor or Council committee.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.48 PLOWING.
   (A)   Plowing shall consist of moving the snow and/or ice evenly to each
side of the street, or may also include loading and trucking to a point of non-
environmental concern.
   (B)   Plowing shall commence as the Street Superintendent or his or her
designee shall direct. Service shall be in order of the class of maintenance.
   (C)   Within the Business District, snow removal will commence according to
§
150.32. The Street Superintendent or officially designated law enforcement
department may restrict parking until clear of snow or ice.
   (D)   Plowing of residential streets will begin with north and south running
streets, starting on the north by Highway #12 moving west or east as deemed
necessary. The east and west running streets will be cleared from north to
south. Streets north of the railroad tracks will be cleared last. Emergency
situations may dictate an alteration to this schedule.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.49 PRIVATE PLOWING.
   (A)   No snow or ice removed from private property shall be deposited in
public ways or in areas expected to be cleared by personnel from the city. This
would include any of the following, which are prohibited:
      (1)   Pushing snow or ice across a roadway or walk;
      (2)   Pushing or carrying and depositing snow or ice on a public way,
where expected to be maintained for pedestrian or vehicular traffic; or
      (3)   The blowing of snow or ice onto a pedestrian or vehicular travel
area.
   (B)   Any of the prohibitions in division (A) above are dangerous and could
cause injury or accidents, and may not allow for safe passage by the public.
   (C)   Main Street business sidewalks are exempt from this provision.
   (D)   The city, through notification of the property owner, may also remove
the snow or ice. A penalty, to be set by resolution, plus actual removal cost,
would be assessed against the property owner, in the form of a bill, fine, or
special assessment on the tax roll.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.50 PARKING.
   In residential areas, once a vehicle has been plowed around, it must be
moved within 48 hours. This will enable the plow to catch the snow it could not
when the vehicle was present.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.51 SALT AND SAND MIXTURE.
   (A)   Sanding shall consist of spreading a sand and salt mixture to provide
a traction surface on packed snow or ice and shall be applied only in areas of
high traffic movement or unsafe areas as determined by the Street
Superintendent.
   (B)   Salt is not effective when temperature is below a certain degree
adjusted by the amount of available sunlight.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.52 MAILBOXES.
   The Street Department and its machinery operators shall not be held liable
for damage to mailboxes on the street right-of-way. Replacement of mailboxes
damaged or destroyed due to snow removal operations shall be the responsibility
of the mailbox owners.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.53 COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints for snow or ice removal shall be made to the City Finance Officer
during working hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to secure a permit under §
150.01 shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable according to the
penalties thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 9.0601)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
150.02 shall commit a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.0502)
   (D)   Violation of §
150.49 may result in a forfeiture action against the property owner, punishable
by a per diem fine, to be set by resolution, until such nuisance shall be
removed.
   (E)   Violation of §
150.50 may result in a forfeiture action against the property owner, punishable
by a per diem fine, to be set by resolution, until such nuisance shall be
removed.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: TRAILER PARKS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Areas
   
151.03   License required
   
151.04   Application for license
   
151.05   License fee
   
151.06   License granted
   
151.07   Transfer of license
   
151.08   Revocation and suspension of license
   
151.09   Setback and spacing
   
151.10   Electricity
   
151.11   Management
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Imports both the plural and singular and includes natural persons,
firms, partnerships, associations, companies, and corporations.
   TRAILER COACH. Any portable structure or vehicle, whether on wheels or
dismounted, so constructed and designed as to permit occupancy thereof for
dwelling or sleeping purposes.
   TRAILER COACH PARK. Any plot of ground upon which one or more trailer
coaches, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodation.
(Prior Code, § 6.0701)
§ 151.02 AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, construct, convert, install,
or operate a trailer coach park, or otherwise provide space for the parking of
any trailer coach within the city limits without first having obtained a
license as hereinafter required.
(Prior Code, § 6.0702) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall establish or maintain a trailer coach park, as defined
in §
151.01, without first having obtained a license therefore from the governing
body of the city and agreeing, in writing to comply with the terms of this
chapter, providing that a plot of ground upon which unoccupied trailer coaches
are located for the purpose of sale or trade shall not be construed to be a
trailer coach park, nor shall said situated trailer coaches be used, at any
time, for the housing or sleeping of persons.
   (B)   All trailer coach parks in existence upon effective date of this
chapter shall obtain a license not later than January 1, 1962, and in all other
respects comply fully with the requirements of this chapter, except that
trailer coaches already parked and established upon any lot or lots within the
city on the effective date of this chapter may be granted a special permit by
the City Council to remain as parked or located upon such site, even though the
same may not comply fully with the provisions of this chapter. Such special
permit shall be at the discretion of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.0703) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any reputable person desiring to establish, maintain, or operate a trailer
coach park shall make application in writing to the governing body of the city
for a license which shall set forth the following:
   (A)   Sketch of area to be used for camp purposes, showing dimensions,
driveways, proposed location of units, and location of sanitary conveniences;
   (B)   Statement relative to water supply, sewage, and garbage disposal;
   (C)   The location and legal description of the trailer coach park; and
   (D)   Plans and specifications of all buildings, and the buildings
constructed or to be constructed with the trailer coach park.
(Prior Code, § 6.0704)
§ 151.05 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   For each trailer coach park with a capacity of not to exceed one
trailer, $5;
   (B)   For each trailer coach park with a capacity of two to ten trailers
inclusive, $10;
   (C)   For each trailer coach park with a capacity of 11 to 25 trailers
inclusive, $20;
   (D)   Any trailer coach park with a capacity of more than 26 trailers, $30;
and
   (E)   All licenses shall expire on December 31 of the year in which each
license is issued.
(Prior Code, § 6.0705)
§ 151.06 LICENSE GRANTED.
   (A)   Before a license is granted, all applications shall be examined by the
City Health Officer and officially designated law enforcement department, who
shall investigate the applicant and inspect the premises and proposed plan to
make certain that the applicant is of good moral character, and the proposed
trailer coach park will be in compliance with all provisions of the city
ordinances and the laws of the state in regard to zoning, safety, and
sanitation, and such officers shall, in writing, submit their findings to the
City Council.
   (B)   Licenses issued hereunder grant no right to erect any buildings.
(Prior Code, § 6.0706)
§ 151.07 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be transferable without first making application in writing
to the City Council for such transfer, which application shall set forth the
following:
   (A)   The name and post office address of the person holding such license;
   (B)   The name and post office address of the person to whom the application
for transfer is made; and
   (C)   The location and legal description of the trailer coach park upon
which application for transfer is made.
(Prior Code, § 6.0707) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The governing body may revoke any license issued pursuant to this
chapter if, after due hearing, it determines that the holder thereof has
violated any of the provisions of this chapter, or that any trailer coach park
becomes a nuisance or is being maintained in any unsanitary or unsafe or
unlawful manner.
   (B)   Every trailer coach shall be connected with the city water and sewer
systems if any portion of the plot is within 200 feet thereof. Where such
facilities cannot be made available, water supply for the camp shall have the
approval of the City Health Officer, and septic tanks shall be installed as
directed by the Health Officer; and no privies shall be allowed in any case. It
shall be unlawful to permit water from sinks, showers, or other fixtures of any
kind in any unit, to be discharged onto the ground or street.
(Prior Code, § 6.0708) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 SETBACK AND SPACING.
   No occupied trailer coach shall be located within the setback line
established in the zoning district in which said unit is located. There shall
be no less than six feet between trailer coaches, end to end, and no less than
ten feet between such coaches, side to side, and no trailer coach shall be
closer than six feet to any building, nor shall it be located within five feet
of the property line of adjoining property.
(Prior Code, § 6.0709) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 ELECTRICITY.
   Electricity shall be provided for each trailer coach.
(Prior Code, § 6.0710) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   In every trailer coach park, there shall be an office for the person
in charge of said camp, at which shall be kept a register of all guests,
showing names, addresses, dates of entrance and departure, license numbers of
all trailer coaches and automobiles, and states issuing such licenses.
   (B)   Each register shall be kept available for public inspection at any
time, and shall not be destroyed until expiration of 12 months from the date of
registration.
(Prior Code, § 6.0711) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, club, firm, corporation, or association guilty of violating any
of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished
by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 6.0712)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
152.01   Permit required for business in residential area
   
152.02   Residential area building permits
   
152.03   Fences
§ 152.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BUSINESS IN RESIDENTIAL AREA.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall remodel an existing structure or
operate a business from a residential structure or erect a new commercial
building without having complied with the following regulations: applications
shall be made for permit and license to operate a business within the
residential area of this city. For the purpose of this section, all portions of
the incorporated limits of this city outside of the fireproof building limits
as set out in §
91.03 are deemed to be in the residential area. Said application so made shall
be made in writing and shall describe in detail the business to be operating,
the structure housing the business, and exact location of the structure.
   (B)   Thereafter, a 30-day waiting period shall exist before issuance of the
permit. During said 30 days, no construction of any type is to be commenced.
Provided further that this Council, by a unanimous vote and consent of the
Mayor, may waive said waiting period in cases of extreme emergency. This
section is designated to cover any construction, remolding, or use of existing
structures for the purposes of any business, including the retail sales,
warehouses, bulk stations, commercial storage, and any and all properties which
result in the owner or occupant receiving compensation for goods or services so
held. No nonprofit business may be established, nor may properties be used for
commercial food or lodging purposes of any kind on a regular basis without the
consent of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 14.0101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.02 RESIDENTIAL AREA BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall build, construct, remodel, move
into place, alter, or improve any lot or sublot without the fireproof building
limits of this city as hereinbefore defined without having first made
application and received a building permit having first made application and
received a building permit in the manner hereinafter set out.
   (B)   (1)   Before any construction, ditching, excavation, or the like is
commenced for any of the purposes set out in §
152.01, the owner or holder of the premises to be improved shall make
application to the City Council in writing for a permit to so build, construct,
alter, or improve said premises.
      (2)   Said application shall designate:
         (a)   Legal description of the premises;
         (b)   Existing improvements on the premises;
         (c)   Improvements sought to be made with costs thereof;
         (d)   A simple plat of the premises showing location of proposed
improvements thereon; and
         (e)   The position of any improvements on adjoining lots, with
dimensions.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the application and at the next regular or special
meeting, the City Auditor shall present same to the Council for its approval.
It shall be necessary that the owner of the premises be present in person or by
agent to be advised of conditions governing granting of permit. Provided
further that this Council shall have the right to regulate placing of the
structure, relative to distance from the street line, and positioning of same
upon said lot, which shall be not less than seven feet from the side of the lot
line or 20 feet from front of said lot line or in line with three existing
structures in said block, provided further that when construction is to be
performed on a lot which is less than 50 feet in width, the City Council, by a
majority vote, may establish the same to be positioned upon the lot in question
at a distance of less than seven feet from the side of said lot line, which in
no effect will be less than five feet.
   (D)   The permit shall be issued and a copy thereof attached to the
application upon granting, and a file of same shall be kept by the City Finance
Officer. A copy shall be furnished to the builder, who shall post the same upon
the premises to be improved in a conspicuous place. Provided further that this
chapter shall stand to include all improvements of any nature over and above
the actual cost of $100.
   (E)   Any person in violation of this section shall be notified of said
violation by the constable at the direction of the Mayor or Council and shall
cease operation thereon until a permit is acquired. Any continued operation
after this notice shall be a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 14.101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 FENCES.
   No barbed and electric fences shall be erected or maintained in any area of
the city. This restriction may be waived by the city after application for a
variance, a hearing thereon and, if approved, no trespassing and warning signs
are to be affixed to the fence.
(Ord. 284, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   EASEMENTS
      
II.   CHANGES IN STREET NAMES, GRADE, AND THE LIKE
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   PURCHASE AND LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
      
V.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
 
 
TABLE I: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        8-7-1967    Granting an easement to Northwestern Bell Telephone.
                     (Prior Code, 16.0101)
                    
 
 
TABLE II: CHANGES IN STREET NAMES, GRADE, AND THE LIKE
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
R. -     7-1-2013    Relocating Elevator Road.
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
114      5- -1972    Granting a telephone franchise to West River Mutual Aid
                     Telephone Corporation. (Prior Code, 17.0201)
                    
 
 
TABLE IV: PURCHASE AND LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
935      - -         Lease agreement with the McLaughlin Rodeo Association for
                     a rodeo recreational field. (Prior Code, Appendix A)
936      - -         Lease agreement with the McLaughlin Rodeo Association for
                     a rodeo recreational field. (Prior Code, Appendix A)
                    
 
TABLE V: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        4-15-1974   Contract with Standing Rock Housing Authority for supply
                     of water. (Prior Code, Appendix D)
-        2-19-2019   Contract with Standing Rock Sioux Tribe for Water Service.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Cite Code Section
SDCL Cite Code Section
9-1-1     10.02;
          10.04
9-12-6    10.04
9-19-1    10.04
          10.99;
9-19-3    51.99;
          94.99
          32.02;
10-45     32.05;
          32.99
          32.03;
10-46     32.05;
          32.99
10-52     32.01;
          32.04
22-6-2(2) 10.99
itle 32   70.07
32-20A    72.17
          111.16 
34-20G-1  111.19;
          111.24
          
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Appendix A         TSO Table IV
Appendix D         TSO Table V
1.0102             31.01
1.0201             30.01
1.0202             30.02
1.0203             30.03
1.0204             30.04
2.0101             11.01
5.0201             93.99
5.0201             93.01
5.0301             93.15
5.0302             93.16
5.0304             93.18
5.0305             93.19
5.0306             93.20
5.0307             93.21
5.0308             93.99
5.0501             110.01
5.0601             93.02
5.0602             93.02
5.0701             91.01
5.0702             91.02
5.0703             91.03
5.0704             91.04
5.0705             91.05
5.0706             91.06
5.0707             91.07
5.0708             91.08
5.0709             91.99
6.0101             110.02
6.0102             110.02
6.0103             110.02
6.0104             110.99
6.0201             110.03
6.0202             110.03
6.0203             110.03
6.0204             110.99
6.0301             72.02
6.0302             72.99
6.0401             72.01
6.0701             151.01
6.0702             151.02
6.0703             151.03
6.0704             151.04
6.0705             151.05
6.0706             151.06
6.0707             151.07
6.0708             151.08
6.0709             151.09
6.0710             151.10
6.0711             151.11
6.0712             151.99
6.0801             90.15
6.0802             90.16
6.0803             90.17
6.0804             90.18
7.0101             130.01
7.0102             130.02
7.0103             130.03
7.0104             130.04
7.0105             130.05
7.0106             130.06
7.0107             130.07
7.0108             130.08
7.0109             130.09
7.0110             130.10
7.0111             130.11
7.0112             90.03
7.0113             130.12
7.0114             130.13
7.0115             130.14
7.0116             130.15
7.0117             130.16
7.0118             130.17
7.0119             130.99
9.0101             150.30
9.0102             150.31
9.0201             150.15
9.0202             150.16
9.0301             92.01
9.0302             92.02
9.0303             92.03
9.0304             92.04
9.0305             92.05
9.0306             92.06
9.0307             92.07;
                   92.99
9.0401             150.03
9.0402             150.04
9.0501             150.02
9.0502             150.99
9.0601             150.01;
                   150.99
10.0101            70.01
10.0110            71.05
10.0201            70.05
10.0202            70.06
10.0203            70.99
10.0204            70.07
10.0205            70.08
10.0206            71.01
10.0207            71.02
10.0208            71.03
10.0209            71.04
10.0211            71.06
10.0212            71.07
10.0213            71.08
10.0214            71.09
10.0215            71.10
10.0216            71.11;
                   71.99
10.0217            71.12
10.0218            71.13
10.0219            71.14
10.0220            71.15
10.0221            71.16
10.0222            71.17
10.0223            71.18
10.0224            71.19
10.0225            71.20
10.0226            71.21
10.0227            71.22
10.0228            71.23
10.0229            71.24
10.0230            71.25
10.0231            71.26
10.0232            71.27
10.0233            71.28;
                   71.99
10.0234            71.29
10.0235            71.30
10.0236            71.31
10.0237            71.32
10.0238            71.33
10.0239            71.34
10.0240            71.35
10.0241            71.99
10.0301            72.30
10.0302            72.31
10.0303            72.32
10.0304            72.33
10.0305            72.34
10.0306            72.99
10.0401            72.15
10.0402            72.16
10.0403            72.17
10.0404            72.18
10.0405            72.99
10.0501            70.02
10.0601            70.03
10.0602            70.04
10.0603            70.99
11.0101            51.01
11.0102            51.02
11.0103            51.03
11.0104            51.04
11.0105            51.05
11.0106            51.06
11.0108            51.07
11.0109            51.08
11.0110            51.09
11.0111            51.10
11.0112            51.11
11.0113            51.12
11.0114            51.13
11.0115            51.14
11.0116            51.15
11.0118            51.99
11.0202            51.20
11.0301            51.35
11.0302            51.36
11.0303            51.37
11.0304            51.38
11.0305            51.39
11.0306            51.40
11.0307            51.41
11.0401            51.19
14.0101            152.01
14.101             152.02
15.0101            53.01
15.0102            53.02
15.0403            53.17
15.0407            53.19
15.0410            53.22
16.0101            TSO Table I
17.0201            TSO Table III
                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        7-1-2013    TSO Table I
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     150.45 -
--       - -         150.53;
                     150.99
161      - -         93.17
935      - -         TSO Table IV
936      - -         TSO Table IV
-        8-7-1967    TSO Table I
114      5- -1972    TSO Table III
-        4-15-1974   TSO Table V
156      1- -1983    31.01
182      4-15-1988   90.01;
                     90.99
192      4-2-1990    90.02;
                     90.99
                     52.15 -
195      9-17-1990   52.31;
                     52.99
196      10-1-1990   93.03
205      9-16-1991   130.17;
                     130.99
211      9-8-1992    71.37
213      12-7-1992   72.01;
                     72.99
236      4-7-1997    150.32
237      7-7-1997    51.18
244      10-5-1998   111.01;
                     111.99
255      5-1-2000    90.19
269      12-2-2002   53.03
284      10-3-2005   152.03
                     93.35 -
296      12-1-2008   93.47;
                     93.99
302      7-6-2010    52.01
325      6-1-2015    71.36;
                     71.99
328      3-7-2016    53.04
329      3-7-2016    71.99
331      11-7-2016   52.32
                     32.01 -
333      11-7-2016   32.05;
                     32.99
                     53.15;
334      3-6-2017    53.16;
                     53.18;
                     53.20
336      8-7-2017    50.04
337      8-14-2017   51.17
340      8-14-2017   150.17
343      9-10-2018   50.01 -
                     50.03
                     111.15 -
2021-355 9-7-2021    111.29;
                     111.99
359      6-7-2022    31.15 -
                     31.18
363      2-21-2024   51.55 
                     51.59
365      9-19-2024   94.01;
                     94.99
364      9-26-2024   51.16;
                     51.99
366      10-3-2024   50.04
                     53.15;
                     53.16;
367      2-11-2025   53.18;
                     53.20;
                     53.21
                     50.01;
368      2-11-2025   50.02;
                     50.03
                    
 
