CITY CODE
of
MITCHELL, SOUTH DAKOTA
2005
Code current through:
Ord. O2025-01, passed January 21, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Mitchell, SD, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including Ordinance O2025-01, passed January 21, 2025.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ORDINANCE #O2025-03
 
AN ORDINANCE.
 
WHEREAS, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has completed The Flood
Insurance Study for Davison County, South Dakota and Incorporated Areas and as
part of such project, the City of Mitchell must update its ordinances for flood
control; therefore
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF MITCHELL, SOUTH DAKOTA AS FOLLOWS:
 
 
Section 1.
 
That Mitchell City Code Title 12 FLOOD CONTROL, and all chapters, sections, and
subsections thereof, is hereby REPEALED and shall be REPLACED with the
provisions of Section 2 of this ordinance.
 
Section 2.
 
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
 
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
 
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization
12-1-2: Findings Of Facts
12-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
12-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Loss
 
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
The Legislature of the State of South Dakota has in SDCL 11-2-13 and 11-4-
1 delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the Council of the City of
Mitchell, South Dakota, does ordain as follows:
 
The City of Mitchell elects to comply with the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP) is a voluntary program administered by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), a component of the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security, and the City of Mitchell’s community officials have elected
to join the program, participate, and enforce this Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance and the requirements and regulations of the NFIP. The NFIP,
established in the aforesaid act, provides that areas of the City of Mitchell
having a special flood hazard be identified by FEMA, and that floodplain
management measures be applied in such flood hazard areas. Furthermore, the
City of Mitchell may elect to administer the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
to areas not identified as Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs) by FEMA on the
community’s effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), if the community has
documentation to support that there is an inherent risk of flooding in such
areas.
 
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT
The flood hazard areas of the City of Mitchell are subject to periodic
inundation by flood waters, which results in potential loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and
relief; all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare of the inhabitants of the City of Mitchell.
 
These potential flood losses are caused by:
1.   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains that are known to
cause increases in flood heights and velocities;
2.   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by structures vulnerable to floods
because they are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected from flood
damages; and
3.   Uses deemed unsuitable for floodplain areas or that do not account for the
increased flood risk.
 
12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the community and to minimize public and private losses due
to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
1.   Protect human life and health;
2.   Minimize damage to public infrastructure, including but not limited to
utilities, streets, and bridges that are susceptible to flooding;
3.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions caused by flooding;
4.   Minimize public expenditures on flood control projects;
5.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding
and are generally undertaken at the expense of the public;
6.   Protect and safeguard the welfare and safety of first responders should an
emergency response is needed;
7.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
8.   Promote that potential buyers are notified if properties are in a flood
area.
 
12-1-4 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES
To accomplish the purposes outlined in 12-1-3 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE, this
ordinance applies the following methods:
1.   Restricts or prohibits land uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
2.   Requires that land uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
3.   Controls the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
4.   Controls filling, grading, dredging and other developments that may
increase flood damage; and
5.   Prevents or regulates the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or may increase flood hazards to other lands.
 
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
 
12-2-1: Definitions
 
12-2-1: DEFINITIONS
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance
shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this ordinance its most reasonable application.
 
100-YEAR FLOOD: flood having a recurrence interval that has a 1-percent chance
of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (1-percent-annual-chance
flood). The terms “100-hundred-year flood” and “1-percent-annual-chance flood”
are synonymous. The term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen
once every 100 hundred years. Mandatory flood insurance requirements may apply.
 
100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the
occurrence of a 1-percent-annual-chance flood.
 
500-YEAR FLOOD: flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2-percent
chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2-percent-annual-
chance flood). The term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen
once every 500 years and mandatory flood insurance requirement generally does
not apply.
 
500-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the
occurrence of a 0.2-percent-annual-chance flood.
 
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: structure that is on the same parcel of property as a
principal structure. Its use is incidental to the use of the principal
structure the ownership of the accessory structure is the same owner as of the
principal structure. An accessory structure is a non-residential structure of
low value that is used solely for the parking of vehicles and storage of tools,
materials, or equipment. No human habitation is allowed within an accessory
structure.
 
ADDITION: any improvement that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the
square footage of an existing structure. This includes lateral additions added
to the side, front, or rear of a structure; vertical additions added on top of
a structure; and enclosures added underneath a structure.
 
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform that originates at the apex. It is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
 
APEX: point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of
the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
 
APPURTENANT STRUCTURE: see definition of Accessory Structure.
 
AREA OF FUTURE-CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD: land area that would be inundated by
the 1-percent-annual-chance (100-year) flood, based on future-conditions
hydrology.
 
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1 percent or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
 
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD: land within a community that is
most likely to be subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The area may
be designated as Zone E on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After the
detailed evaluation of the special flood-related erosion hazard area, in
preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further refined.
 
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: land in the flood plain within a community
subject to a 1 percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The
area may be designated as Zone A on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has
been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is
refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/
AH, AR/A, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of these regulations, the term
“special flood hazard area” is synonymous in meaning with the phrase “area of
special flood hazard”.
 
BASE FLOOD: flood having a 1-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
 
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): water surface elevation of the 1-percent-annual-
chance flood event. It is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to
be reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the
floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the elevation shown on
the FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A,
AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1-percent chance of equaling or exceeding
that level in any given year.
 
BASEMENT: any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides. A walkout basement that does not require a step up to
grade is not considered a basement.
BEST AVAILABLE DATA: existing flood hazard information adopted by a community
and reflected on an effective FIRM, FBFM, FHBM and/or within an FIS report; or
draft or preliminary flood hazard information supplied by FEMA or from another
source. Other sources may include, but are not limited to, state, other federal
agencies, or local studies, the more restrictive of which would be reasonably
used by the community.
BREAKAWAY WALL: wall that is not part of the structural support of the building
and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific
lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion of the
building or supporting foundation system. Any walls below the lowest floor in a
building in a V or VE Zone should give way under wind and water loads without
causing collapse, displacement, or other damage to the elevated portion of the
building of the supporting pilings or columns. Breakaway walls apply only to V
or VE Zones.
 
BUILDING: see definition of Structure.
 
CHANNELIZATION: artificial creation, enlargement, realignment, or alteration of
a stream channel’s slope, shape, or alignment. Streambank restoration may be
deemed as channelization.
 
CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (CFR): codification of the general and permanent
rules published in the Federal Register by the executive departments and
agencies of the Federal Government.
 
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): FEMA's comment on a proposed
project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic and/or hydraulic
characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the
existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, and/or the SFHA. The letter
does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the project, if built as
proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.
 
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F): FEMA's comment on a
proposed structure or property. The letter does not revise an effective map; it
indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be removed from the
floodplain.
 
CRAWLSPACE: under-floor space that has its interior floor area (finished or
not) no more than 4 feet from the bottom floor joist the next higher floor
elevation, designed with proper openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures of
flood water, and is not used for habitation. Reference: 12-5-2-4: CRAWLSPACE
 
CRITICAL FACILITY: facility or building where even a slight chance of flooding
is too great a threat. Typical critical facilities include hospitals, fire
stations, police stations, schools, storage of critical records, assisted
living and similar facilities.
 
DEED RESTRICTION: clause in a deed that limits the future use of the property
in some respect. Deed restrictions may impose a vast variety of limitations and
conditions. For example, they may limit the density of buildings, dictate the
types of structures that can be erected, or prevent buildings from being used
for specific purposes or from being used at all.
 
DESIGNATED OFFICAL: City Planner, or other employee designated by the director
of public works.

DETACHED GARAGE: building that is used solely for storage of materials or
vehicle parking for up to four housing occupants. If a detached garage is
designed or used for habitation or conducting business, or has multiple
stories, then the building is not considered a detached garage under the NFIP.
 
DEVELOPMENT: any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, demolition, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage either temporary or permanent of equipment or materials.
 
ELEVATED BUILDING: non-basement building built, in the case of a building in
Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (post and
piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of a building in
Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, an “elevated building” also
includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter
walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood
waters.
 
ENCLOSURE: enclosed walled-in area below the lowest floor of an elevated
building. Enclosures below the BFE may only be used for building access,
vehicle parking, and storage.
 
EROSION: process of the gradual wearing away of land masses by wind, water, or
other natural agents.
 
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. It may also be referred to as Existing
Structures.
 
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
 
EXISTING STRUCTURES: see definition of Existing Construction.
 
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
 
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency.
 
FILL: placement of materials, such as dirt, sand, or rock to elevate a
structure, property, or portion of a property above the natural elevation of
the site, regardless of where the material was obtained from. The common
practice of removing unsuitable material and replacing with engineered material
is not considered fill if the elevations are returned to the existing
conditions. Any fill placed or used prior to the area being mapped as a flood
hazard area is not deemed as fill.
 
FLOOD OR FLOODING:
1.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from:
a.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
b.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
2.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) that are proximately caused by flooding as
defined in this ordinance and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on
the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current
of water and deposited along the path of the current.
3.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body
of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of
water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually
high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or
by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal
surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in
flooding as defined in this ordinance.
 
FLOOD INSURANCE MANUAL: document FEMA produces twice a year and is used to
write flood insurance policies underwritten by the NFIP. The document contains
definitions, policy rates, coverage and limitations, application and insurance
policy forms.
 
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): official map of a community, on which the
Administrator has delineated both the SFHAs and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community.
 
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS) OR FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: an examination,
evaluation, and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation and
determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: community issued permit or document that is used
for any development that occurs within an SFHA identified by FEMA or the
community. It is used to address the proposed development to ensure compliance
with the community’s ordinance.
 
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA: any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source whether or not identified by FEMA (see definition of
Flooding).
 
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, mitigation plans, and
floodplain management regulations.
 
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for flood
damage prevention and reduction.
 
FLOOD OPENING: an opening in the wall of an enclosed structure that allows
floodwaters to automatically enter and exit the enclosure. Refer to FEMA
Technical Bulletin 1.
 
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: physical structural works for which funds have been
authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to an SFHA and to reduce the depths of associated
flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams,
reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized, flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards. FEMA only
accredits levees, both private and public, that have been certified by a
professional engineer or firm in which the certification shows that the levee
have met and continue to meet the minimum regulatory standards cited in Title
44, Chapter 1, Section 65.10 of the Code of Federal Regulations (44 CFR 65.10).
 
FLOODPROOFING: any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents. Floodproofing can either be accomplished in the
form of dry floodproofing in which the structure is watertight below the levels
that need flood protection, or wet floodproofing in permanent or contingent
measures applied to a structure that prevent or provide resistance to damage
from flooding, while allowing floodwaters to enter the structure or area.
 
FLOODWAY: see definition of Regulatory Floodway.
 
FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES: lines marking the limits of floodways on federal,
state, and local flood plain maps.
 
FREEBOARD: factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
purposes of flood plain management. “Freeboard” tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of
the watershed.
 
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: development that cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The
term includes docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and repair
facilities. It does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
 
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. In AO Zones,
the highest adjacent grade is utilized by comparing the lowest floor elevation
to that of the highest adjacent grade and the depth of the AO Zone.
 
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: any structure that is:
1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing
maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the
Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on
the National Register;
2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with
historic reservation programs that have been approved by the Secretary of the
Interior; or
4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities
with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
a.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior, or
b.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved
programs.
 
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): official amendment, by letter, to an effective
FIRM. A LOMA establishes a property’s location in relation to the SFHA. It is
usually issued because a property or structure has been inadvertently mapped as
being in the floodplain, when the property or structure is actually on natural
high ground above the BFE.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): FEMA's modification or revision to an entire or
portion of the effective FIRM, or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective BFEs, or the SFHA.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F): FEMA’s amendment, by letter, to
an effective FIRM where fill was brought in or used to elevate a property,
portion of property or structure above the BFE.
 
LEVEE: man-made structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
 
LEVEE SYSTEM: flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
 
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): lowest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. For an
existing structure, it means the lowest point where the structure and ground
touch, including but not limited to attached garages, decks, stairs, and
basement windows.
 
LOWEST FLOOR: lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not
considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of Section 60.3.
 
MANUFACTURED HOME: structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
“manufactured home” does not include a “recreational vehicle”; however, a
manufactured home may be used for both residential and non-residential use.
 
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MAP: FHBM or FIRM for a community issued by FEMA.
 
MEAN SEA LEVEL: for purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum
(NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum,
to which BFEs shown on a community's FIRM are referenced.
 
MIXED USE STRUCTURES: structures with both a business and a residential
component, but where the area used for business is less than 50 percent of the
total floor area of the structure.
 
NEW CONSTRUCTION: structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For the
purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
 
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
 
NO-RISE CERTIFICATIONS: formal certifications signed and stamped by a
professional engineer licensed to practice in the state, demonstrating through
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice that a proposed development will not result in any
increase (0.00 feet) in flood levels within the community during the occurrence
of a base flood event.
 
PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR): FEMA’s action whereby one or more map panels are
physically revised and republished.
 
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: vehicle which is:
1.   Built on a single chassis;
2.   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
4.   Designed primarily, not for use as a permanent dwelling but, as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
 
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
 
RIVERINE: relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, creek, etcetera, which can be intermittent or
perennial.
 
SECTION 1316: refers to the section of the National Flood Insurance Act of
1968, as amended, which provides for the denial of flood insurance coverage for
any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted State or local authority to be in violation of State or local
floodplain management regulations. Section 1316 is issued for a property, not a
property owner, and remains with the property even after a change of ownership.
 
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: see definition of Area of Special Flood Hazard.
 
START OF CONSTRUCTION: (for other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)) includes
substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
 
STRUCTURE: for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
culvert, bridge, dam, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home. Structure, for insurance purposes,
means:
1.   A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof,
which is affixed to a permanent site;
2.   A manufactured home (“a manufactured home,” also known as a mobile home,
is a structure: built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in one or
more sections, and affixed to a permanent foundation); or
3.   A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a
permanent foundation, that is regulated under the community's floodplain
management and building ordinances or laws.
For insurance purposes, “structure” does not mean a recreational vehicle or a
park trailer or other similar vehicle, except as described in paragraph (3) of
this definition, or a gas or liquid storage tank.
 
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
 
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include:
1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications that have
been identified by the local code enforcement official and are the minimum
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
2.   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, if the alteration will not
preclude the structure's continued designation as a “historic structure.”
 
VARIANCE: grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain
management regulation. Reference: 12-4-5: VARIANCE AND APPEAL PROCEDURES
 
VIOLATION: failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant
with the community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other
development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other
evidence of compliance required in Sections 44 CFR 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10),
(d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such
time as that documentation is provided.
 
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: height, in relation to the North American Vertical
Datum (NAVD) of 1988, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies, such as the 1-percent-annual-chance flood event, in
the flood plains of coastal or riverine areas.
 
WATERCOURSE: channel and banks of an identifiable water in a creek, brook,
stream, river, ditch or other similar feature.
 
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
12-3-1: Lands To Which This Ordinance Applies
12-3-2: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
12-3-3: Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit
12-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-3-5: Interpretation
12-3-6: Warning And Disclaimer Or Liability
12-3-7: Severability
12-3-8: Compliance
12-3-9: Stop Work Order
12-3-10: Penalties For Noncompliance
 
12-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES
The ordinance shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard identified by
FEMA within the jurisdiction of the City of Mitchell.
 
12-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD
The areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA in a scientific and
engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for Davison County,
South Dakota and Incorporated Areas” dated May 6, 2025, accompanying FIRMs, and
any Letters of Map Change including Letters of Map Amendment, Letters of Map
Revision based on Fill, and Letters of Map Revision, thereto are hereby
automatically adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance.
 
12-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this ordinance.
 
12-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS
This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
 
12-3-5: INTERPRETATION
In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions shall
be:
1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes.
 
12-3-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY
The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
 
This ordinance does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood
hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This ordinance shall not create liability on the part of the community
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
 
12-3-7: SEVERABILITY
If any section, provision, or portion of this ordinance is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court, the remainder of the ordinance shall
not be affected.
 
12-3-8: COMPLIANCE
No structures or developments including buildings, recreation vehicles, or
manufactured homes or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other
applicable regulations. Nothing herein shall prevent the City of Mitchell
Council from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violations.
 
12-3-9: STOP WORK ORDER
1.   Authority. Whenever the floodplain administrator or other community
official discovers any work or activity regulated by this ordinance being
performed in a manner contrary to the provision of this ordinance, the
floodplain administrator is authorized to issue a stop work order.
2.   Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to
the owner of the property involved, or to the owner’s agent, or to the person
doing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall
immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order,
and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume.
3.   Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to
penalties as prescribed by local or state law including but not limited to the
penalties outlined in 12-3-10: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
 
12-3-10: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE
In accordance with Section 59.2(b) of CFR 44, Chapter 1, of the NFIP
regulation, to qualify for the sale of federally subsidized flood insurance, a
community must adopt floodplain management regulations that meet or exceed the
minimum standards of Section 60. “These regulations must include effective
enforcement provisions.” In accordance with Section 60.1(b) of CFR 44, Chapter
1, of the NFIP regulations, “These regulations must be legally-enforceable,
applied uniformly throughout the community to all privately and publicly owned
land within flood-prone (i.e. mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas, and the
community must provide that the regulations take precedence over less
restrictive conflicting local laws, ordinances, or codes.”
 
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this ordinance
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this ordinance or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
to exceed the current maximum penalty for conviction of a class 2 misdemeanor
from time to time in effect under South Dakota code or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both, for each violation assessed daily, and in addition shall
pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall
prevent the City of Mitchell from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
 
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
 
12-4-1: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
12-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
12-4-3: Requirement To Submit New Technical Data
12-4-4: Permit Procedures
12-4-5: Variance And Appeal Procedures
 
12-4-1: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
The City of Mitchell Designated Official is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance and
other appropriate sections of the NFIP Regulations and 44 CFR pertaining to
floodplain management.
 
12-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
1.   Uphold the goals of the community and the NFIP to reduce risk when
possible and increase the community’s resistance to future disasters.
2.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this ordinance, including the actual elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement or crawlspace) of all new or substantially improved
structures and any floodproofing certificates, including the data supporting
such certificates.
3.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection maps that identify and locate
the boundaries of the SFHAs to which this ordinance applies, including, but not
limited to, the FIRM.
4.   Review development proposals to determine whether a proposed building
site, including sites designed for the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
5.   Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits required
by adoption of this ordinance.
6.   Ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from those federal,
state, or local governmental agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334 and the
Endangered Species Act of 1973) from which prior approval is required.
7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
8.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency which is the South Dakota Office of Emergency Management,
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to FEMA.
9.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries
of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the Floodplain
Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
10.   When BFE data has not been provided by FEMA, the Floodplain Administrator
shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data and floodway data
available from a federal, state, or other source including data provided by the
applicant, in order to administer the provisions of this ordinance.
11.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, no new construction,
substantial improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be
permitted within Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the community's FIRM, unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than 1.00 foot at any point
within the community.
A.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12 of the NFIP
Regulations, a community may approve certain development in Zones A1-30, AE,
and AH on the community’s FIRM, which increases the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than 1.00 foot, provided that the community first meets
the requirements of Section 65.12 for a conditional FIRM revision through
FEMA’s CLOMR process.
12.   If the project is determined or reasonably believed to cause an adverse
effect on the BFE(s), boundaries of the floodplain or any insurable structures,
technical justification for the proposed development shall be submitted and the
community may require a CLOMR or LOMR to be submitted prior to the permit
approval or as a requirement of the permit.
 
12-4-3: REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT NEW TECHNICAL DATA
1.   The property owner or developer shall notify FEMA by submittal of a LOMR
within 6 months of project completion when an applicant had obtained a CLOMR
from FEMA or when development altered a watercourse, modified floodplain
boundaries, or modified BFE.
2.   The property owner or developer shall be responsible for preparing
technical data to support the CLOMR or LOMR application and paying any
processing or application fees to FEMA. The property owner or developer is
responsible for submitting the CLOMR and LOMR to FEMA and shall provide all
necessary data to FEMA if requested during the review process to ensure the
CLOMR or LOMR is issued.
3.   The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the
Community Acknowledgement Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application,
until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the
requirements of this ordinance and all applicable state federal, and local
laws.
 
12-4-4: PERMIT PROCEDURES
Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the Floodplain
Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited
to:
1.   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
elevation of proposed landscape alterations.
2.   Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
elevation of existing and proposed structures, including the placement of
manufactured homes.
3.   Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHAs.
4.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor (including
basement and crawlspace) of all new and substantially improved structures, if
applicable;
5.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), to which any nonresidential
structure (if applicable) shall be floodproofed.
6.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect that
the nonresidential floodproofed structure (if applicable) shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of this ordinance and the NFIP Regulations.
7.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage
will be altered or relocated because of proposed development, if applicable.
8.   At the community’s discretion, the community may charge a fee for issuance
of floodplain development permits.
9.   Copies of all floodplain development permits and the associated documents
shall become property of the community and a permanent record.
 
Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain Administrator
shall be based on all of the provisions of this ordinance and the following
relevant factors:
1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others.
4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles.
6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems.
7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site.
8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable.
9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use.
10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that
area.
 
12-4-5: VARIANCE AND APPEAL PROCEDURES
1.   VARIANCE
A.   An application for a variance must be submitted to the Designated Official
on the form provided by the City of Mitchell and include at a minimum the same
information required for a development permit and an explanation for the basis
for the variance request.
B.   Upon receipt of a completed application for a variance, the variance
request will be set for public hearing at the next City Council meeting in
which time is available for the matter.
C.   Prior to the public hearing, Notice of the hearing will be published in
the official newspaper of the City at least 15 days prior to the hearing. In
addition to the newspaper publication, written notice shall be provided to all
adjoining property owners.
D.   The burden to show that the variance is warranted and meets the criteria
set out herein is on the applicant.
2.   CRITERIA FOR VARIANCES
A.   Generally, the only condition under which a variance from the elevation
standard may be issued is for new construction and substantial improvements to
be erected on a small or irregularly shaped lot contiguous to and surrounded by
lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood level. As the
lot size increases the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
B.   Variances shall not be issued within a designated floodway if any increase
in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
C.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is
the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
D.   Variances may be issued upon;
i.   A showing by the applicant of good and sufficient cause;
ii.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws and ordinances.
E.   Variances pertain to a physical piece of property; they are not personal
in nature and do not pertain to the structure, its inhabitants, economic or
financial circumstances. They primarily address small lots in densely populated
residential neighborhoods.
3.   VARIANCE DECISION
The decision to either grant or deny a variance shall be in writing and shall
set forth the reasons for such approval or denial. If the variance is granted,
the property owner shall be put on notice along with the written decision that
the permitted building will have its lowest floor below the Flood Protection
Elevation and that the cost of flood insurance likely will be commensurate with
the increased flood damage risk.
 
4.   APPEALS
The City Council shall hear and decide appeals from the interpretations of the
Administrator.
A.   An appeal must be filed with the Designated Official within fourteen (14)
days of the date of any permit denial or interpretation of the Administrator.
Failure to timely file an appeal shall be considered a failure to exhaust the
administrative remedies. The appeal must set out the interpretation of the
Administrator and a narrative setting forth the facts relied upon by the
appellant and the appellants claim regarding the error in the interpretation.
B.   Upon receipt of a completed appeal, the appeal will be scheduled for the
next available City Council meeting to be heard. In ruling on an appeal, the
City Council shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
and standards specified in other sections of this ordinance, including:
i.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
ii.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
iii.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effects of such damage on the individual landowner;
iv.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
v.   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where applicable;
vi.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which are
not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
vii.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
viii.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
ix.   The safety of access to the property in times of flooding for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
x.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
xi.   The cost of providing government services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
5.   DECISION
The City Council’s decision on appeal shall be in writing and set out the
facts, technical information, and the legal basis for the decision.
 
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
 
12-5-1: General Standards
12-5-2: Specific Standards
12-5-3: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
12-5-4: Floodways
 
12-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS
In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage.
4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharge from
the systems into flood waters.
7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be designed or located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
 
12-5-1-1: SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT
Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a building or structure, if the cumulative cost of the entire
project equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure only
(not of the structure and land value combined) before the improvement or repair
is started then the work shall be considered as substantial improvement. If the
structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered
substantial improvements regardless of the actual repair work performed. For
Substantial Damage, refer to 12-5-1-2: SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. The term does not,
however, include either:
A.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct existing
health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building official
and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
B.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure.
 
12-5-1-2: SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure only before the damage
occurred. This term also applies to structures which have incurred any damage
that equals or exceeds 50 percent of the structure’s market value regardless of
the actual repair work performed. When a structure or building has been
determined as substantially damaged, any work or repair on said structure or
building will be considered as substantial improvement and will be required to
meet the development requirements set forth within this ordinance for
substantial improvement.
 
12-5-1-3: SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT AND SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATION
For applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, and any other improvement
of or work on such buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in
coordination with the applicable community officials and staff, shall:
A.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an appraisal
of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of the
building or structure only, not of land and building, before the start of
construction of the proposed work. In the case of repair, the market value of
the building or structure shall be the market value before the damage occurred
and before any repairs are made.
B.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a damaged
building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of improvements
and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or structure.
C.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes substantial
improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination requires
evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as specified
in the 12-5-1-1: SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
D.   Utilize FEMA’s Substantial Improvement/Substantial Damage Desk Reference
when making any determination on Substantial Improvement and/or Substantial
Damage.
E.   The substantial improvement regulations apply to all of the work that is
proposed as the improvement, even if multiple permits are issued. Therefore,
the determination of the cost of the improvement should consider all costs of
all phases of the work before issuance of the first permit.
F.   Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, that compliance with
the floodplain management ordinance is required.
 
12-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS
In all SFHAs the following provisions are required:
 
12-5-2-1: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION
New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall
have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the BFE, unless a
freeboard option is noted below. If a freeboard option is noted, new
construction and substantial improvement shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to the freeboard elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit certified elevations to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this ordinance are satisfied.
 
In AO/AH Zones, new and substantially improved residential structures must have
their lowest floor (including basement) above the highest adjacent grade at
least one foot above the FIRM’s depth number (at least three feet if no depth
number is specified). In AO/AH Zones, adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes are required to guide flood waters away from proposed structures.
 
12-5-2-1-A: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION FREEBOARD
The City of Mitchell has elected to adopt a freeboard option for new
construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure. The
freeboard option requires that lowest floor elevation to be built above the BFE
by the height selected. The City of Mitchell has elected a 1 feet of freeboard
meaning the lowest floor must be built 1 foot above the BFE.
 
12-5-2-2: NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION
New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial, industrial, or
other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to the base flood level, unless a freeboard option is noted
below, or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed
so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for
the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction
are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this
subsection. A record of such certification that includes the specific elevation
(in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall
be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator. If the use or occupancy of the
building changes in the future to residential, then the dry floodproofing of
the structure cannot be used when determining compliance of the structure to
the residential construction of this ordinance, 12-5-1-1 RESIDENTIAL
CONSTRUCTION and 12-5-2-1-A: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION FREEBOARD. As such, the
building will not be grandfathered into compliance and will be required to be
brought into compliance with the residential construction requirements of this
ordinance.
 
In AO/AH Zones, new and substantially improved non-residential structures must
have their lowest floor (including basement) above the highest adjacent grade
at least one foot above the FIRM’s depth number (at least three feet if no
depth number is specified). In AO/AH Zones, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes are required to guide flood waters away from proposed
structures.
 
12-5-2-2-A: NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION FREEBOARD
The City of Mitchell has elected to adopt a freeboard option for new
construction and substantial improvement of any nonresidential structure. The
freeboard option requires that lowest floor elevation to be built above the BFE
by the height selected. The City of Mitchell has elected a 1 feet of freeboard
meaning the lowest floor must be built 1 foot above the BFE.
 
12-5-2-3: ENCLOSURES
New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below
the lowest floor that are to be used solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage in an area other than a basement, and are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs
for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect, or must meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
A.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than 1
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be
provided.
B.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above grade.
C.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings
or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
The development and construction of the structure must conform with the
provision in FEMA/Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)-Technical Bulletins 1
and 2. Certification and documentation from a professional, licensed engineer
or architect is required if the structure’s lowest floor is built below the
BFE.
 
12-5-2-4: CRAWLSPACE
New construction and substantial improvements built on a crawlspace or sub-
grade (below grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the development is designed
and meets or exceeds the standards found in FEMA’s Technical Bulletins 1, 2,
and 11, which include but are not limited to the following:
A.   The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation, designed and
adequately anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is
not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than 5 feet per second
unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design professional, such as a
registered architect or professional engineer.
B.   The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood vent opening can be no more
than 1 foot above the LAG.
C.   The crawlspace enclosure must have proper openings that allow equalization
of hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. To
achieve this, a minimum of 1 square inch of flood opening is required per 1
square foot of the enclosed area subject to flooding.
D.   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with materials
resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation walls of the
crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists, insulation,
piers, or other materials that extend below the BFE. Ductwork, in particular,
must either be placed above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters.
E.   Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above
the BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the
system components during flood conditions.
F.   The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more than 2
feet below the LAG.
G.   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest
interior grade of the crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist of the
next higher floor cannot exceed 4 feet at any point.
H.   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters from
the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained within
a reasonable time after a flood event.
I.   Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood insurance
premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace construction, with
the interior elevation at or above the LAG.
 
12-5-2-5: MANUFACTURED HOMES
A.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
B.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites outside of a
manufactured home park or subdivision;) in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated at least 1 foot above the BFE, and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
C.   In A-1-30, AH, AO and AE Zones, require that manufactured homes to be
placed or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park to be
elevated so that the lowest floor is at least 1 foot above the BFE; or the
chassis is supported by reinforced piers no less than 36 inches in height above
grade and securely anchored.
 
12-5-2-6: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and
AE on the community's FIRM either:
A.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully licensed
and ready for highway use;
i.   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
B.   Or meet the permit requirements of 12-4-4: PERMIT PROCEDURES, and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" of this section.
 
12-5-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS
1.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with the provisions of this
ordinance.
2.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
3.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the placement
of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development Permit
requirements of this ordinance.
4.   BFE data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed
development including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, which is greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, or whichever is lesser.
5.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall minimize flood damage.
6.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
 
12-5-4: FLOODWAYS
Floodways located within SFHAs are extremely hazardous areas due to the
velocity of flood waters that carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion
potential, the following provisions shall apply:
1.   Designate a regulatory floodway that will not increase the base flood
level more than 1 foot.
2.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase greater than 0.00 feet
in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge.
3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of Article V in this ordinance.
4.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the NFIP
Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory
floodway that would result in an increase in BFEs, provided that the community
first applies for a conditional LOMR and floodway revision through FEMA.
 
 
Section 3
 
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
 
Section 4.
 
The City Finance Officer shall cause notice of adoption of this ordinance to be
published in the official newspaper and twenty (20) days after the completed
publication, unless the referendum is invoked, this ordinance shall become
effective.
 
 
Adopted by majority vote of the Mitchell SD City Council in regular session
this 7th day of April, 2025.
 
 
                     ____________________________________
                     Jordan Hanson – Mayor
 
 
Attest:
 
                                    (seal)
___________________________________
Michelle Bathke – City Finance Officer
 
 
 
 
 
First Reading: March 17, 2025      
Second Reading: April 7, 2025
Adoption: April 7, 2025         
Published: _____________________
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE #O2025-04
 
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE STAGGERING OF MAYORAL AND CITY COUNCIL
ELECTIONS.
 
WHEREAS, The City of Mitchell’s current standard election cycle has four city
council members elected one year, four city council members and the mayor
elected the following year, and no positions to be filled in the third year;
and
 
WHEREAS, the cycle then repeats with position vacancies not altering the
standard election cycle; and
 
WHEREAS, the City of Mitchell would like to stagger these elections so as to
have the standard election cycle result in the election of four city council
members one year, four city council members another year, and the mayor elected
in the remaining year, with the cycle then repeating itself thereafter.
 
THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF MITCHELL, SOUTH DAKOTA AS FOLLOWS:
 
Section 1.
 
That a NEW SUBSECTION be added to Mitchell City Code Section 1-5-5: MUNICIPAL
ELECTIONS to read as follows:
 
“C.   Staggering of Mayor and City Council Elections: In order to facilitate
the staggering of elections for mayor and city council positions, the following
provisions regarding temporarily changing the length of term for city elected
officials shall apply:
 
1.   For the mayoral election in 2027, which is the next standard election
cycle for mayor, the term for the successful mayoral candidate in that election
shall be two years. Then in 2029, the mayoral election shall again be for a
two-year term.
2.   When that mayoral term ends in 2031, the term for the office of mayor
shall revert to the standard three-year term provided by Section 1-5-2 of this
code.
3.   City council positions shall remain on their existing three-year election
cycles with the standard three-year term provided by Section 1-5-3 of this
code.
4.   Given the above, the election schedule through the year 2031 will be: no
officers for the year 2025; half of the city council, for three-year terms, in
2026; half of the city council, for three-year terms, and the mayor, for a two-
year term, in 2027; no officers for the year 2028; half of the city council,
for three-year terms, and the mayor, for a two-year term, in 2029; half of the
council, for three-year terms, in 2030; and the mayor, reverting to standard
three-year terms, in 2031. All three groups of elected officials then stay on
their respective cycle of being elected every three years for three-year terms.
5.   Any vacancies for mayor or city council positions arising during a term
shall be filled as provided by law. However, the filling of the vacancy for
that position shall only be for the remaining term for the vacated position.
The vacated position shall remain up for election on the next standard three-
year election cycle for that position.
 
Section 2.
 
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
 
Section 3.
 
The City Finance Officer shall cause notice of adoption of this ordinance to be
published in the official newspaper and twenty (20) days after the completed
publication, unless the referendum is invoked, this ordinance shall become
effective.
 
 
Adopted by majority vote of the Mitchell SD City Council in regular session
this 5th day of May, 2025.
 
 
                     ____________________________________
                     Jordan Hanson – Mayor
 
Attest:
 
                                    (seal)
___________________________________
Michelle Bathke – City Finance Officer
 
First Reading: April 21, 2025      
Second Reading: May 5, 2025
Adoption: May 5, 2025         
Published:
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE #O2025-07
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MITCHELL, THAT CHANGES THE ZONING DISTRICT
CLASSIFICATION OF THE REAL PROPERTY LEGALLY DESCRIBED AS; N 90’ of Lot 3, plus
the N 90’ of the E 25’ of Lot 4; the N 90’ of Lot 5, plus the N 90’ of the W
25’ of Lot 4; and the S 76’ of Lot 5, plus the S 76’ of the W 12’ of Lot 4, all
in Block 2 of Home Park Original Addition, in the NE ¼ of Section 20-103-60,
Davison County, SD; be changed from R4 High Density Residential District to TWC
Transportation, Warehousing and Commercial District AND THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
BE CHANGED TO REFLECT THE SAME.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF MITCHELL, DAVISON COUNTY, SOUTH DAKOTA:
Section 1: THE ZONING DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION OF THE REAL PROPERTY LEGALLY
DESCRIBED AS; N 90’ of Lot 3, plus the N 90’ of the E 25’ of Lot 4; the N 90’
of Lot 5, plus the N 90’ of the W 25’ of Lot 4; and the S 76’ of Lot 5, plus
the S 76’ of the W 12’ of Lot 4, all in Block 2 of Home Park Original Addition,
in the NE ¼ of Section 20-103-60, Davison County, SD; be changed from R4 High
Density Residential District to TWC Transportation, Warehousing and Commercial
District AND THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP BE CHANGED TO REFLECT THE SAME.
Section 2. The City Finance Officer shall publish notice of this ordinance and
the same shall be effective 20 days after the completed publication thereof,
unless the referendum shall be invoked as provided by law.
Passed and approved this the 2nd day of June, 2025.
_________________
                               MAYOR
ATTEST:
__________________
FINANCE OFFICER
{'{'}SEAL{'}'}                  
FIRST READING: May 19, 2025
SECOND READING: June 2, 2025
ADOPTION: June 2, 2025
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2158
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE MITCHELL CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the mayor and city council of the city of Mitchell, South
Dakota as follows:
Section 1: Pursuant to the provisions of SDCL 9-19-16, and from and after the
date of passage of this ordinance, the city code of the city of Mitchell, South
Dakota prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc. containing the compilation of all
ordinances of a general nature together with the changes made to said
ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the city, shall be
accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law of the
city as enacted by the mayor and city council.
Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change
or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or to
insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
Section 5: Any person violating any of the provisions of the city code hereby
adopted shall be subject to the general penalty provisions of the Mitchell city
code.
Section 6: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to
the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 7: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
Passed and approved this the 7th day of March, 2005.
                                                          
          Mayor
Attest:
                          
Finance Officer
{'{'}SEAL{'}'}
First Reading:   February 21, 2005
Second Reading:   March 7, 2005
Adoption:      March 7, 2005
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
MITCHELL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Jurisdiction
1-1-4: Amendments
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-6: References To State Or Federal Law
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official code of Mitchell. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the MITCHELL CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-4 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2005 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2005 Code)
1-1-3: JURISDICTION:
For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals and general welfare of
the city and of enforcing the provisions of this code relating thereto, this
code shall govern and apply to all territory within the jurisdiction of the
city and to any public ground or park belonging to the city and located outside
of the city. (1984 Code § 1-8; amd. 2005 Code)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy and each format of this code. (2005 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any provision of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. In the hard copy of
this code, replacement pages may be inserted according to the official
instructions when so authorized by the city council. The finance officer shall
see that the replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies
maintained in the office of the finance officer. Any person having in his
custody a copy of this code shall make every effort to maintain said code
current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Said code, while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the finance officer
when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2005 Code)
1-1-6: REFERENCES TO STATE OR FEDERAL LAW:
When this code refers to or adopts by reference a provision of state or federal
law:
   A.   The reference or adoption is intended to incorporate future amendments
to the provision of state or federal law to maintain parallel meaning with this
code; and
   B.   If the provision of state or federal law is recodified or renumbered,
the reference or adoption is intended to incorporate the recodification or the
renumbering. (Ord. 2205, 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Prior Ordinances Superseded
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: PRIOR ORDINANCES SUPERSEDED:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby superseded by the provisions of this code, except such as are
included in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved (subject
to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances: tax levy and appropriation ordinances; ordinances
relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other
ordinances granting special rights to persons or corporations; contract
ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the
issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the city; and all special
ordinances. (2005 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2005 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinances shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding. So far as
practicable, if any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (2005 Code)
   D.   The repeal of any ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. (1984 Code § 1-5)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
of a code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general
provision imposed by this code, the provision imposing the greater restriction
or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to also authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      5.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      6.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      7.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      8.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred to by title,
such as "finance officer", "chief of police", etc., such reference shall be
construed as if followed by the words "of the city of Mitchell".
      9.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present. (2005 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
CITY COUNCIL: Whenever the words "city council" or "council" are used in this
code, they shall be construed to mean the city council of the city of Mitchell.
CODE: The municipal code of the city of Mitchell.
COUNTY: The county of Davison.
DAY: A "day" is a period of time between any midnight and the midnight
following.
DAYTIME, NIGHTTIME: "Daytime" is the period of time between sunrise and sunset;
"nighttime" is the period between sunset and sunrise.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the city shall commence on January 1 of each
year 1 .
HIGHWAYS OR ROADS: Includes the whole of all public ways, roads, alleys, courts
and streets and sidewalks between the property lines forming the exterior
lateral boundaries thereof, and those parts of public squares and places which
form traveled parts of highways or roads.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community 2 .
OATH: Includes affirmation.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICIAL TIME: Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean central
standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the city.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before
and next after, respectively.
PROCESS: Includes a writ or summons issued in the course of judicial
proceedings.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK: Includes a mark when the signer or
subscriber cannot write, such signer's or subscriber's name being written near
the mark by a witness who writes his own name near the signer's or subscriber's
name.
STATE: The state of South Dakota.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or an oral lease of or who occupies the whole or a part of
such building or land, either alone or with others.
WEEK: A week consists of seven (7) consecutive days.
WHOLESALER: The term "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark.
YEAR: A calendar year except where otherwise provided. (1984 Code §§ 1-2, 12-1;
amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 9-21-1.
2 1. SDCL § 21-10-1 et seq.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such section, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this code or failing to comply
with any of the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished
by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a
period not exceeding thirty (30) days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Each and every violation of the provisions of this code shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 2256, 10-15-2007)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (2005 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine or
penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2005
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Aldermanic Form Of Government
1-5-2: Mayor
1-5-3: City Council
1-5-4: City Council Meetings
1-5-5: Municipal Elections
1-5-6: Method Of Electing Council Officers
1-5-1: ALDERMANIC FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
The city of Mitchell is and shall be governed under the aldermanic form of
government as provided by the laws of the state, with the governing body being
the common council consisting of a mayor and two (2) aldermen from each of the
four (4) wards of the city. Conduct of government shall be in conformance with
the laws of the state and this code. Whenever any provision of this code shall
conflict with the laws of the state, the applicable provision of the laws of
the state shall be deemed to supersede this code, unless the laws of the state
shall permit this code to supersede the applicable provision of the laws of the
state. Unless lodged elsewhere, all the corporate and political powers of the
city are vested in the common council of the city. (2005 Code)
1-5-2: MAYOR:
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and shall preside
over the meetings of the common council. The mayor shall be elected by and from
the voters of the city at large at the general municipal election, and shall
serve a regular term of three (3) years. Vacancy in the office of mayor shall
be filled as provided by law. The mayor shall perform duties and exercise
powers as provided by law and ordinance. (Ord. 1926, 1-19-1999; amd. 2005 Code)
1-5-3: CITY COUNCIL:
The city council shall be the general legislative body of the city. The city
council shall consist of two (2) aldermen elected by and from the voters of
each of the four (4) election wards of the city, and shall serve a regular term
of three (3) years; provided, that the terms of the aldermen from each ward
shall be staggered so that the regular terms of the aldermen of a ward shall
not expire in the same year. Vacancy in the office of alderman shall be filled
as provided by law. The city council shall perform duties and exercise powers
as provided by law and ordinance. (Ord. 1926, 1-19-1999; amd. 2005 Code)
1-5-4: CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the city council shall be
held on the first and third Mondays in each month of the year at such hour as
the city council shall fix from time to time. Regular meetings shall be held in
the city hall, unless another site shall be specified. Any regular meeting
falling on a legal holiday shall be deemed scheduled on the Tuesday immediately
following such Monday holiday.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the city council may be called by
the mayor or, in his absence, by the acting mayor. Special meetings may also be
called by the finance officer upon written request of three (3) members of the
city council. Special meetings of the council shall encompass only such matters
as are mentioned in the notice for each special meeting.
      1.   Notice of special meetings shall include a proposed agenda with the
date, time, and location of the meeting. The notice shall be posted and
provided in accordance with South Dakota Codified Laws 1-25-1.1 at least twenty
four (24) hours prior to the meeting or as far in advance as the circumstances
permit.
      2.   Notice of special meetings shall be provided, in any manner
authorized by South Dakota Codified Laws 1-25-1.1, to each council member and
to local news outlets requesting notice. (Ord. 2532, 3-21-2016)
1-5-5: MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS:
   A.   Election Wards: The land area of the city within the corporate limits
shall be divided into four (4) election wards. Each ward will represent a
quadrant of the city made by two paths: one primarily north-south (Meridian)
and one primarily east-west (Parallel). The Meridian, Parallel, and wards are
defined as follows:
Meridian: Beginning at the city’s southern municipal boundary, the path of the
Meridian follows Rowley Street north to Havens Avenue, then Havens Avenue west
to Sanborn Boulevard, then Sanborn Boulevard north to 4th Avenue, then 4th
Avenue east to Duff Street, then Duff Street north to 11th Avenue, then 11th
Avenue east to Rowley Street, then Rowley Street north to 15th Avenue, then
15th Avenue east to Main Street, then Main Street north to the city’s northern
municipal boundary.
Parallel: Beginning at the city’s western municipal boundary, the path of the
Parallel follows 8th Avenue east to Edgerton Street, then Edgerton Street south
to 4th Avenue, then 4th Avenue east until the city’s eastern municipal
boundary.
Ward One: The area of the city lying south of the Parallel and west of the
Meridian.
Ward Two: The area of the city lying south of the Parallel and east of the
Meridian.
Ward Three: The area of the city lying north of the Parallel and east of the
Meridian.
Ward Four: The area of the city lying north of the Parallel and west of the
Meridian.
   B.   Polling Hours: The election polls for the annual election of officers
and any special municipal election will be kept open continuously from seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. until seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
(Ord. 2041, 3-4-2002; amd. Ord. O2022-04, 3-7-2022)
1-5-6: METHOD OF ELECTING COUNCIL OFFICERS:
   A.   Whenever a president or vice president of the city council must be
elected due to vacancy or reorganization required by law, the following
procedures shall apply to the election of a member to the officer position.
   B.   One or more candidates may be nominated from the council membership for
an open officer position. Nominating a candidate for a position requires a
second. The members nominating and seconding a candidate for a position may
nominate or second another candidate for that same position. Nominations will
remain open for a position until the council closes nominations by motion and a
majority vote of the council. If, when nominations are closed for a position,
only one candidate has been nominated, that candidate shall be awarded the
office. If, when nominations are closed, two (2) or more candidates have been
nominated, the council shall conduct an election.
   C.   When an election is required for an officer position on the council,
such vote will be done by voice roll call with each member indicating their
preferred candidate by name. The candidate receiving five (5) or more votes
from the council membership shall be awarded the position. If no candidate
receives five (5) votes, then the further provisions of this chapter shall
apply.
   D.   In the event of an election for an officer position on the council
where there are three (3) or more candidates and no single candidate receives
five (5) votes, the council will re-vote. However, before the re-vote, the
candidate who received the fewest number of votes shall be automatically
removed from contention. If there are two (2) candidates that received the same
number of votes which is also the lowest number of votes, then the chair of the
meeting shall conduct a coin flip and the loser of the coin flip shall be
removed from contention. Once only two (2) candidates remain, and upon re-vote
of the last two (2) remaining candidates neither receives five (5) votes, then
neither candidate shall be removed automatically. At that point, the winning
candidate shall be selected from the two (2) remaining candidates by a coin
flip conducted by the chair of the meeting and the winner shall be awarded the
position.
   E.   The city council may vote to modify these procedures by majority vote.
However, the modifications to the election procedures shall only be effective
for one (1) election of one (1) officer position at a time and shall terminate
upon a candidate being awarded the position. To permanently change these
procedures, the council must do so by ordinance.
   F.   When electing officers, other city boards, commissions, or other
committees shall use these election procedures unless other election procedures
have been established for that board, commission, or other committee by
federal, state or local law. However, if the board, commission or other
committee has more or less than eight (8) members, then the number of votes
needed to elect an officer shall be a majority of such board, commission, or
other committee. Such boards, commissions, or other committees may also vote to
change their procedures by majority vote. However, the changes to the election
procedures shall only be effective for one (1) election of one (1) officer
position at a time and shall terminate upon a candidate being awarded the
position. Permanent changes to the election procedures for city boards,
commissions, and committees must be approved by the city council by ordinance.
(Ord. O2024-06, 8-19-2024)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointment Provisions
1-6-2: Executive Chain Of Command
1-6-3: General Appeal Procedures
1-6-1: APPOINTMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Appointive Officers And Positions: The following named offices and
positions in the city shall be appointed positions, pursuant to South Dakota
Codified Laws 9-14-1: city attorney, finance officer, director of public works,
chief of police, chief of fire and EMS, director of park and recreation,
director of human resources, director of community services, and director of
the Corn Palace.
   B.   Qualifications And Appointments:
      1.   The qualifying requirements for all appointive officers of the city
shall be in accordance with the qualification requirements for appointment to
office as the same are established and set out in the laws of the state, or as
otherwise established by the city council 1 . (1984 Code § 3-5; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Each appointive officer shall be appointed by the mayor with the
approval of the city council for a term of office of three (3) years or until a
successor is appointed and qualified. Any appointive officer may be removed
from office and employment with the city as provided by the laws of the state.
(1984 Code § 3-6; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 2531, 3-21-2016)
   C.   Oath And Bond: Before entering upon the duties of office, each
appointive officer shall take and subscribe to an oath as prescribed by law for
city officers and, if required, shall furnish surety bond in such sum as the
city council may fix, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties
of his office. (1984 Code § 3-6; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Salaries And Reimbursements:
      1.   Salaries: The annual salaries of all appointive officers and
employees of the city shall be as prescribed from time to time by the city
council.
      2.   Reimbursement For Expenses: No officer or employee of the city shall
be entitled to reimbursement for personal expenses incurred in the discharge of
his official duties except as approved by the city council; request for
reimbursement shall conform to such specifications and procedures as the city
council shall require. (1984 Code §§ 3-2, 3-8; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   General Duties: The duties of the various appointive officers of the
city shall be such as are ordinarily undertaken by such officers and as
provided by statute and this code. Such officers shall do and perform such
further duties as may be assigned to them by the common council or other body
or person authorized to prescribe such duties. (1984 Code § 3-7; amd. Ord.
2367, 7-5-2011; Ord. O2020-14, 12-7-2020; Ord. O2021-11, 8-16-2021)
 
Notes
1 1 SDCL § 9-14-2 et seq.
1-6-2: EXECUTIVE CHAIN OF COMMAND:
The official business and administration of the city shall be executed and
implemented through a chain of command, with the mayor as the chief executive
officer of the city and responsible for executing and implementing the official
legislative decisions and policies established by the city council through the
various department heads and departments of the city. The department heads
shall be directly accountable to the mayor. No single council person, or group
of council persons, shall have authority to direct the actions of a department
head or any subordinate employee within the city. Nothing contained herein
shall be deemed to impair the right and/or duty of the mayor or any individual
council person to consult with any department head or subordinate employee
regarding the affairs of the city, nor shall anything contained herein impair
the ability of the city council to call any employee to testify before the city
council in executive session in respect to matters properly addressable in
executive session as provided by law. (2005 Code)
1-6-3: GENERAL APPEAL PROCEDURES:
Unless other appeal provisions apply, any person aggrieved by any decision or
other act of an authorized employee or officer of the city, excluding any
employment disputes and excluding allegations of violation of law resulting in
prosecution, shall have the right to appeal such act or decision to the city
council. Such appeal shall be initiated by submitting a written notice of
appeal to the finance officer within ten (10) business days of the action which
is appealed. The finance officer shall place the matter for hearing and
consideration by the city council (with personnel matters to be in executive
session in conformance with law) at the next subsequent regularly scheduled
meeting occurring at least five (5) business days after the notice of appeal is
received. The finance officer shall notify the appellant and applicable city
personnel of the time and place when and where the city council shall consider
the appeal. Notice by first class mail to the appellant at the address shown on
the notice of appeal shall be deemed good and sufficient notice. The city
council may, in its discretion, continue an appeal hearing to another time,
provided that the continuance shall not be for an unreasonable length of time.
(Ord. 2308, 7-20-2009)
CHAPTER 7
CITY DEPARTMENTS AND DEPARTMENT HEADS
SECTION:
1-7-1: General Provisions
1-7-2: Finance Department
1-7-3: Public Works Department
1-7-4: Public Safety Departments
1-7-5: Park And Recreation Department
1-7-6: Golf And Cemetery Division
1-7-7: Human Resources Department
1-7-8: Community Services Department
1-7-9: Corn Palace Department
1-7-10: City Attorney
1-7-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Organization: The operations of the city (functional areas) shall be
organized into departments as provided in this code. Unless otherwise provided
by law or ordinance, the mayor, with the approval of the city council, shall
assign the functional areas of responsibility to each such department. Each
department, as appropriate, may be further organized into divisions consisting
of the functional areas of responsibility assigned to the department (example:
the public works department may consist of engineering/inspection, streets and
sanitation, water, wastewater and airport, each as a division within the public
works department).
   B.   Department Heads:
      1.   Each department shall have an executive manager/director who shall
be an appointed officer of the city and who shall be known as the department
head or department director of each respective department. If so appointed, a
single person may serve as the director of more than one department.
      2.   The department head of each department shall be the senior executive
officer of the department, and shall be the personnel, administrative and
coordinating authority for the department and the divisions therein, and shall
be responsible, further subordinate delegation of authority notwithstanding,
for the management, administration and execution of the operations of the city
within each respective department and the divisions therein, subject to the
executive and administrative authority of the mayor and the city council as
provided by this code and the laws of the state.
      3.   A department head may delegate to subordinate personnel within the
department or its divisions duties and responsibilities of the department or
division(s) and the corresponding authority to perform such duties and
responsibilities. The term “department” shall be deemed to include all of the
divisions within the department. The department head shall be responsible for
the official actions of any subordinate within his department, decision of a
subordinate of any department head shall be deemed the action of the department
head, notwithstanding that subordinate employees may be assigned specific
duties and responsibilities within this code (i.e., such as zoning official,
building official and/or planning official as a subordinate employee to the
public works director). Likewise, each manager or superintendent within any
division of a department (i.e., as the sanitary sewer pretreatment coordinator
as a subordinate employee to the superintendent of the sanitary sewer division
of the department of public works) shall be responsible for the official
actions of his subordinates and the official actions of the subordinate shall
be deemed the actions of the superior authority.
   C.   General Powers And Duties: Each department head shall:
      1.   Be responsible for administration management and operation of the
department.
      2.   Assign the positions and duties of all full time and part time
personnel of the department.
      3.   Make necessary and appropriate rules for the operational governance
of the department.
      4.   Be responsible for the conduct and discipline of the personnel of
the department.
      5.   Be responsible for the care, maintenance and condition of the
property of the city assigned to the department.
      6.   Have command of all employees assigned to the department.
(2005 Code; amd. Ord. O2020-14, 12-7-2020; Ord. O2025-01, 1-21-2025)
1-7-2: FINANCE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Department Established: The department of finance (or finance
department) is hereby established.
   B.   Finance Officer:
      1.   The finance officer shall be the department head of the finance
department and shall be the chief financial officer of the city. The finance
officer shall perform all of the duties of a city auditor and city treasurer,
as such duties may be provided in the ordinances of the city or the laws of the
state. Whenever reference is made in any city ordinance, state statute or other
official document to the term "municipal auditor", "municipal treasurer" or
"municipal clerk", or the equivalent thereof, the same shall be deemed to mean
the municipal finance officer.
      2.   The finance officer shall be bonded in the same amount as is
required by law for a city treasurer. (2005 Code)
1-7-3: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Department Established: The department of public works (or public works
department) is hereby established. The department shall include all public
utility functions operated by the city including water, wastewater, streets,
traffic, sanitation, and solid waste disposal. Contracts for public
improvements shall be administered through the public works department. The
engineering functions of the city shall be performed and/or administered by the
public works department.
   B.   Director Of Public Works: The director of public works shall be the
department head of the public works department.
      1.   If the director of public works is the chief licensed professional
engineer of the city, he shall also perform all of the duties of a city
engineer, as such duties may be provided in the ordinances of the city or the
laws of the state, notwithstanding that subordinate personnel may hold a
position denominated as city engineer. Whenever reference is made in any city
ordinance, state statute or other official document to the term "city
engineer", or the equivalent thereof, the term shall be deemed to mean the
director of public works of the city in the event that the said public works
director is the chief licensed professional engineer of the city.
      2.   The person filling the responsibilities of the city engineer shall
at all times be licensed to practice professional engineering in the state of
South Dakota and shall at all times be not under suspension or other license
limitation. He shall be responsible for the civil engineering affairs of the
city as provided by law and ordinance, and shall perform such other duties as
shall be assigned by the mayor and/or city council upon such terms as shall be
agreed to between the city engineer and the mayor and city council. He shall
have such authorities on behalf of the city as are provided by law and
ordinance. (2005 Code; amd. Ord. O2019-18, 9-3-2019)
1-7-4: PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENTS:
   A.   Departments Established: Having previously been established as a single
department called the public safety department, with two (2) divisions titled
the police division and the fire and ambulance division, the public safety
department is hereby re-organized so as to create two (2) independent
departments titled the police department and the fire and EMS (emergency
medical services) department.
   B.   Police Department:
      1.   Chief of Police: The chief of police shall be the department head of
the police department, and shall perform all of the duties of the chief of
police as such duties may be provided in the ordinances of the City or the laws
of the state.
      2.   Special Powers And Duties: The chief of police, subject to the
administrative supervision of the mayor and city council, or the committee
designated by the city council for such purpose, shall be responsible for:
         a.   The enforcement of state and local laws and police ordinances
within the police jurisdiction of the city;
         b.   The supervision of the communications division; and
         c.   The supervision of the city's code enforcement personnel; and
         d.   Such other duties which may be provided in the position
description.
      3.   In the event that the chief of police is absent or incapacitated,
and in the event of the occurrence of a law enforcement emergency situation
posing a threat to public safety and order, the on scene police officer in
command shall have the same on scene operational powers as the chief of police.
   C.   Fire And EMS:
      1.   Chief Of Fire And EMS: The chief of fire and EMS shall be the
department head of the fire and EMS department, and shall perform all duties of
the chief of fire and EMS as such duties may be provided in the ordinances of
the City or laws of the state.
      2.   Special Powers And Duties: The chief of fire and EMS, subject to the
administrative supervision of the mayor and city council, or the committee
designated by the mayor and city council for such purpose, shall:
         a.   Be responsible for the enforcement of laws and regulations
pertaining to fire safety within the city;
         b.   Prescribe the limits in the vicinity of a fire from which the
general public shall be excluded;
         c.   Whenever in his judgment it becomes necessary to check or control
a fire, to order a structure or building torn down or removed for the purpose
of checking or extinguishing a fire;
         d.   In case of emergency, to employ additional personnel to assist in
the control of a fire; and
         e.   Such other duties which may be provided in the position
description.
      3.   In the event that the chief of fire and EMS is absent or
incapacitated, and in the event of the occurrence of a fire, disaster, or other
emergency situation posing a threat to public safety and order, other than law
enforcement emergencies, the on scene fire and EMS officer in command shall
have the same on scene operational powers as the chief of fire and EMS.
   D.   In the event of an emergency situation involving both the police
department and the fire and EMS department, in the interest of uniform
direction for emergency response, the chief of police and chief of fire and EMS
shall utilize the incident command system to coordinate the response of each
department. (2005 Code; amd. Ord. 2167, 6-20-2005; Ord. O2019-18, 9-3-2019;
Ord. O2020-14, 12-7-2020)
1-7-5: PARK AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Department Established: The department of park and recreation (or park
and recreation department) is hereby established. Whenever reference is made in
any city ordinance, state statute or other official document to the term "park
department" or "recreation department" or the equivalent thereof, the term
shall be deemed to mean the department of park and recreation.
   B.   Director Of Park And Recreation: Whenever reference is made in any city
ordinance, state statute or other official document to the term "park director"
or "recreation director" or the equivalent thereof, the term shall be deemed to
mean the director of park and recreation. (2005 Code)
1-7-6: GOLF AND CEMETERY DIVISION:
   A.   Having previously been established as an independent department, the
golf and cemetery department is hereby re-organized to be a subdivision of the
park and recreation department. Whenever reference is made in any city
ordinance, state statute, or other official document to the term “director of
golf and cemetery,” “golf course superintendent,” or “cemetery sexton” or the
equivalent thereof, the term shall be deemed to mean the director of park and
recreation.
   B.   The operations of the golf and cemetery division shall be subject to
oversight by the golf and cemetery board. The park and recreation board shall
have no authority over the golf and cemetery division. (2005 Code; amd. Ord.
O2021-11, 8-16-2021)
1-7-7: HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Department Established: The department of human resources (or human
resources department) is hereby established.
   B.   Director Of Human Resources: The director of human resources shall be
the department head of the human resources department. (2005 Code)
1-7-8: COMMUNITY SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
Having previously been established as the senior services department, there is
hereby created the community services department. The director of community
services shall be the department head for the community services department.
(2005 Code; amd. Ord. O2020-14, 12-7-2020)
1-7-9: CORN PALACE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Department Established: The department of the Corn Palace is hereby
established.
   B.   Director Of The Corn Palace: The director of the Corn Palace shall be
the department head of the Corn Palace department. (Ord. 2367, 7-5-2011)
1-7-10: CITY ATTORNEY:
The city attorney shall at all times be licensed to practice law in the state
of South Dakota and shall at all times be not under suspension or other license
limitation. He shall be responsible for the legal affairs of the city as
provided by law and ordinance, and shall perform such other duties as shall be
assigned by the mayor and/or city council on such terms as shall be agreed to
between the city attorney and the mayor and city council. He shall have such
authorities on behalf of the city as are provided by law and ordinance. (2005
Code; amd. Ord. 2367, 7-5-2011)
CHAPTER 8
CITY PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Personnel Policy
1-8-2: Code Of Conduct Under Federal Grants
1-8-1: PERSONNEL POLICY:
   A.   Definition: All persons performing services for the city and who are
not appointive officers of the city shall be deemed employees. (2005 Code)
   B.   Employment At Will: South Dakota is an employment at will state. The
intent of the city is to maintain employment at will status of all employees,
subject to such provisions as the city council shall approve in any collective
bargaining agreement from time to time in effect.
   C.   Personnel Policy Adoption:
      1.   A personnel policy manual is hereby authorized to be adopted and
maintained by the city council for the purpose of regulating those matters
relating to city employees as the city council shall approve; provided that the
personnel policy manual shall not contain any provision inconsistent with the
employment at will status of city employees; provided however that the
personnel policies will be subject to such provisions as the city council shall
approve in any collective bargaining agreement from time to time in effect.
(Ord. 2472, 5-5-2014)
      2.   The personnel policy manual does not confer a contract of employment
upon any employee. The policies, procedures, rules and benefits contained
therein are at all times subject to change upon a majority vote of the city
council. The policies are provided as a reference of present policies and not a
guarantee of employment or specific employment benefit.
   D.   Employee Classification; Positions Authorized: Employees of the city
shall be classified as salaried, hourly, exempt and nonexempt in conformance
with applicable state and federal law. The employee positions within the city
and its departments to which personnel may be hired, and the compensation
authorized for each such position, shall be as authorized by the common
council. No person shall be hired for employment with the city or any
department of the city except in conformance with an authorizing plan approved
by the common council.
   E.   Employee Wages And Benefits: Employee wage rates and salaries,
including any step plan or wage and/or salary gradations, shall be determined
by resolution of the city council. Employee benefits supplemental to wages and
salary shall be as from time to time determined by the common council. Except
as may be contained in a collective bargaining contract, in no event shall any
such employee wage and/or benefit determination be deemed contractual.
   F.   Employee Retirement System: All ordinances establishing retirement
system(s) for the employees of the city within the South Dakota retirement
system are maintained and not repealed by the enactment of this code. (2005
Code)
1-8-2: CODE OF CONDUCT UNDER FEDERAL GRANTS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this code of conduct is to ensure the
efficient, fair and professional administration of federal grant funds in
compliance with the federal office of management and budget (OMB) circular A-
102, attachment O, paragraph 7 and other applicable federal and state
standards, regulations and laws.
   B.   Application Of Provisions: This code of conduct applies to all
officers, employees or agents of the city engaged in the award or
administration of contracts supported by federal grant funds.
   C.   Requirements:
      1.   No officer, employee or agent of the city shall participate in the
selection, award or administration of a contract supported by federal grant
funds if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved. Such a
conflict would arise when:
         a.   Any employee, officer or agent;
         b.   Any members or his immediate family;
         c.   His partner; or
         d.   An organization which employs or is about to employ any of the
above
has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for award.
      2.   The city's officers, employees or agents shall neither solicit nor
accept gratuities, favors or anything of monetary value from contractors,
potential contractors or subcontractors.
   D.   Remedies: To the extent permitted by federal, state or local laws or
regulations, violation of these standards may cause penalties, sanctions or
other disciplinary actions to be taken against the city's officers, employees
or agents or the contractors, potential contractors, subcontractors or other
agents. (Ord. 1684, 11-19-1990; amd. 2005 Code)
TITLE 2
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Disposition Of Funds
2-1-2: Payment Of Claims
2-1-3: Reports And Inventories
2-1-4: Capital Asset Replacement Reserve
2-1-5: Time Periods For Annual Appropriation Proceedings
2-1-1: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
All money belonging to the city derived from taxation, licenses, fines,
forfeitures, the operation of the waterworks or other public utility owned or
operated by the city or from any other source, shall be paid into the city
treasury, and the city council shall designate by ordinance to what fund such
money shall be applied as provided by law 1 . (1984 Code § 12-6)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 9-22-1 et seq.
2-1-2: PAYMENT OF CLAIMS:
   A.   Warrant Register: The finance officer shall keep a warrant register
which shall show, in columns arranged for that purpose, the number, date and
amount of each warrant presented; the particular fund upon which the same is
drawn; the date of presentation; the name and address of the person in whose
name the same is registered; the date when payment is made, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed, as provided in this
chapter. (1984 Code § 12-4)
   B.   Payment Of Warrants:
      1.   Payment Out Of Appropriate Fund: All warrants drawn upon the
treasury shall be paid out of the fund on which they were drawn, in order of
their presentation, and the finance officer shall endorse thereon the date of
payment.
      2.   Insufficient Funds: If the fund on which any warrant was drawn is
insufficient to pay such warrant on presentation, the finance officer shall
endorse thereon the words "not paid for want of funds" and the date of such
presentation, and thereafter, such warrant shall draw interest at the rate of
six percent (6%) per annum. (1984 Code § 12-2)
      3.   No Funds Appropriated For Payment:
         a.   If there are no funds in the treasury appropriated for payment of
a warrant presented for payment, the finance officer shall enter such warrant
in his warrant register. He shall endorse thereon the registry number, date of
registration and the words "registered for payment" and sign such endorsement.
The holder of any warrant need not register the same. (1984 Code § 12-3)
         b.   As soon as funds are received in the particular fund sufficient
for payment of a warrant first in order of the warrant register, the finance
officer shall notify, by mail, the holder of such warrant, or in case the
holder is not known, the person who registered the same, that such warrant will
be paid on presentation. Interest shall thereupon cease. (1984 Code § 12-5)
2-1-3: REPORTS AND INVENTORIES:
   A.   Reports By Boards And Fee Collecting Officers:
      1.   Annual Report: Each of the boards appointed by and acting for the
city in the administration of city affairs shall make an annual report of its
activities to the city council as soon as practicable after the close of each
fiscal year, which report shall be filed with finance officer.
      2.   Monthly Reports: The building official, chief of police or his
designated representative, chief of the fire department or his designated
representative and each board, officer, employee or agency of the city
collecting fees or the money for or on behalf of the city shall, at the close
of each month, make a monthly report thereof to the finance officer in such
manner and form as required by the finance officer. (1984 Code § 12-7)
   B.   Inventories:
      1.   Annual Inventory: On or before every January 15, each department
head shall file with the finance officer a complete inventory of all materials,
tools, supplies and equipment coming into the custody of his department during
the preceding calendar year. Such complete inventory shall be in such form as
the city council may direct and shall disclose as to each item the number or
quantity on hand at the beginning of the calendar year, the number or quantity
acquired during the year and the number or quantity on hand at the close of
such calendar year. Any differences between the number or quantity of such
goods coming into possession of any department during the year and the number
or quantity on hand at the close of such calendar year shall be accounted for
as being on hand, used upon or worn out in use, as in the case of water or
parking meters, or lost or otherwise not accounted for. Such inventory shall
also show the condition of each item of tools or equipment on hand. (1984 Code
§ 12-9)
The report of inventories specified herein shall be presented by the finance
officer to the city council at the first regular meeting in February of each
year. The city council shall take such action on the inventories as it may see
fit, and after approval thereof, they shall be filed with the finance officer.
(1984 Code § 12-10)
      2.   Inventory Of Retired Officer Or Department Head: On retirement of
any officer or department head from service of the city, the finance officer
shall take inventory of all property in his custody and deliver the same to his
successor who shall be charged therewith. (1984 Code § 12-11)
2-1-4: CAPITAL ASSET REPLACEMENT RESERVE:
Pursuant to South Dakota Codified Laws 9-21-31, the city hereby authorizes the
finance officer to establish capital asset replacement reserve accounts within
the general fund for the following purposes:
   Fire division - equipment
   Emergency medical services - equipment
(Ord. 2142, 10-4-2004)
2-1-5: TIME PERIODS FOR ANNUAL APPROPRIATION PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No later than the first regular city council meeting in September, the
city council shall set the date for a hearing on tax levies for the upcoming
fiscal year.
   B.   No later than the second regular city council meeting in September, the
city council shall hold a hearing regarding the tax levies for the upcoming
fiscal year. At the close of the hearing, the city council shall set such tax
levies and direct the finance officer to certify such tax levies to the Davison
County auditor as required by law.
   C.   On or before October 1st, the city finance officer shall certify the
tax levies set by the city council for the upcoming fiscal year to the Davison
County auditor in the form required by law.
   D.   No later than the first regular city council meeting in November, the
city council shall introduce the City's annual appropriation ordinance for the
upcoming fiscal year.
   E.   No later than the second regular city council meeting in November, the
city council shall finalize and adopt the annual appropriation ordinance for
the upcoming fiscal year. (Ord. O2021-10, 7-19-2021)
CHAPTER 2
SALES AND USE TAXES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Interpretation
2-2-2: Imposition Of Tax
2-2-3: Collection Of Taxes
2-2-4: Distribution Of Revenues
2-2-5: Violations; Penalty
2-2-6: Tax Refund
2-2-1: INTERPRETATION:
It is declared to be the intention of this chapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the South Dakota retail occupational sales and service act 1
and the South Dakota use tax 2 , and that this shall be considered a similar
tax except for the rate thereof to that tax. (1984 Code § 34B-6)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL ch. 10-45.
2 2. SDCL ch. 10-46.
2-2-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
   A.   Sales Tax: From and after January 1, 2006, there is hereby imposed as a
municipal retail occupational sales and service tax upon the privilege of
engaging in business, a tax measured by two percent (2%) on the gross receipts
of all persons engaged in business within the jurisdiction of the municipality
of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota, who are subject to the South Dakota
retail occupational sales and service tax, South Dakota Codified Laws 10-45,
and acts amendatory thereto.
   B.   Use Tax: In addition, there is hereby imposed an excise tax on the
privilege of use, storage and consumption within the jurisdiction of the
municipality of tangible personal property or services purchased from and after
January 1, 2006, at the same rate as the municipal sales and service tax upon
all transactions or use, storage and consumption which are subject to the South
Dakota use tax act, South Dakota Codified Laws 10-46, and acts amendatory
thereto. (Ord. 2175, 9-19-2005)
   C.   Vending Machines: Notwithstanding the tax rates hereinbefore
established, the gross receipts reported from the operation of all vending
machines including, but not limited to, pinball machines, phonographs and all
other mechanical devices for amusement, shall be taxed at one percent (1%).
(Ord. 1473, 5-21-1984)
2-2-3: COLLECTION OF TAXES:
Such taxes are levied pursuant to authorization granted by South Dakota
Codified Laws 10-52 and acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the
South Dakota department of revenue and regulation in accordance with the same
rules and regulations applicable to the state sales tax and state use tax and
under such additional rules and regulations as the secretary of revenue and
regulation of the state of South Dakota shall lawfully prescribe. (Ord. 2175,
9-19-2005)
2-2-4: DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUES:
All monies received and collected on behalf of the city by the state department
of revenue pursuant to this chapter shall be credited to the special municipal
non ad valorem tax fund in the state treasury and, after deducting the amount
of refunds made, the amounts necessary to pay the cost of collecting the tax
and the administrative expenses incident thereto, shall be paid within thirty
(30) days after collection to the city. The city council shall apply such
monies attributable from the collection of sales tax to the appropriate funds
used for personal services, current expenses, and capital outlays, at the
discretion of the governing body. (Ord. 1704, 10-7-1991; amd. 2005 Code)
2-2-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed by this
chapter and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the taxes herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, all such collection remedies
authorized by South Dakota Codified Laws chapters 10-45 and 10-46, are hereby
authorized for the collection of these taxes by the department of revenue and
regulation. (1984 Code § 34B-7; amd. 2005 Code)
2-2-6: TAX REFUND:
   A.   Pursuant to South Dakota Codified Law 10-52-17 and 10-61-1, qualified
contractors and subcontractors may obtain a refund of the municipal sales and
use tax if they meet the requirements for a refund for the tax by the state of
South Dakota for the state tax.
   B.   The applicant for the refund shall attach a copy of the application
made to the state of South Dakota for the refund pursuant to South Dakota
Codified Law chapter 10-61.
   C.   The application will be made on such forms as prescribed by the finance
officer of the city of Mitchell and include any supporting documents requested
by the finance officer.
   D.   No interest will be paid on any refund.
   E.   Claims for a refund must be made within two (2) years of the payment of
the tax. (Ord. 2226, 11-21-2006)
CHAPTER 3
APPROPRIATION OF REAL PROPERTY TAX REVENUES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Definitions
2-3-2: Appropriation Limitations And Adjustments
2-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
APPROPRIATION: An authorization by the governing body of the city to expend
from public funds a sum of money not in excess of that specified and for the
purposes specified in the authorization. (1984 Code § 34B-17)
2-3-2: APPROPRIATION LIMITATIONS AND ADJUSTMENTS:
For taxes payable in 1997, and each year thereafter, the total amount of
revenue payable from taxes on real property within the city, excluding the levy
pursuant to South Dakota Compiled Laws 10-13-36, may increase no more than the
lesser of three percent (3%) or the index factor, as defined in South Dakota
Compiled Laws 10-13-38, over the amount of revenue payable from taxes on real
property in the preceding year, excluding the amount of taxes levied pursuant
to South Dakota Compiled Laws 10-13-36. After applying the index factor, the
governing body of the city may increase the revenue payable from taxes on real
property above the limitations provided by this section by the percentage
increase of value resulting from any improvements or change in use of real
property, annexation, minor boundary changes and any adjustments in taxation of
property separately classified and subject to statutory adjustments and
reductions under South Dakota Compiled Laws chapters 10-4, 10-6, 10-6A, and 10-
6B, except 10-6-31.4, only if assessed the same as property of equal value. The
governing body of the city may increase the revenue it receives from taxes on
real property above the limit provided by this section for taxes levied to pay
the principal, interest, and redemption charges on any bonds issued after
January 1, 1997, which are subject to referendum, scheduled payment increases
on bonds and for a levy directed by the order of a court for the purpose of
paying a judgment against the city. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
LODGINGS, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND PREPARED FOOD TAX
SECTION:
2-4-1: Purpose
2-4-2: Imposition Of Tax
2-4-3: Exemptions
2-4-4: Disposition Of Revenues
2-4-5: Applicability Of Sales And Use Tax
2-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide additional needed revenue for the
city by imposing a municipal non-ad valorem tax on lodgings, alcoholic
beverages and prepared food, all as described herein, pursuant to the powers
granted to the municipality by the state by South Dakota Codified Laws chapter
10-52 and specifically South Dakota Codified Laws 10-52-8, uniform municipal
non-ad valorem tax law. (Ord. 1540, 10-20-1986)
2-4-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
Notwithstanding the rate of tax established in subsection
2-2-2A of this title, there is hereby imposed a municipal tax which shall be
measured at the rate of one percent (1%) upon the gross receipts of all leases
or rentals of hotel, motel, campsites or other lodging accommodations within
the city for periods of less than twenty eight (28) consecutive days, the sales
of alcoholic beverages as defined at South Dakota Codified Laws 35-1-1 and
establishments where the public is invited to eat, dine, or purchase and carry
out prepared food for immediate consumption or ticket sales or admissions to
places of amusement, athletic, and cultural events, or any combination thereof
within the jurisdiction of the city. (Ord. 2547, 8-1-2016)
2-4-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The same exemptions as found at section
2-2-3 of this title and South Dakota Codified Laws 10-52-2, 10-52-2.5, 10-52-
2.6 shall pertain to the special tax found herein. (Ord. 1540, 10-20-1986)
2-4-4: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
All monies received and collected on behalf of the city pursuant to this
chapter shall be used for the purpose of land acquisition, architectural fees,
construction costs, payments for civic center, auditorium, or athletic facility
buildings, including the maintenance, staffing, and operation of such
facilities and the promotion and advertising of the city, its facilities,
attractions, and activities.
Subject to the obligation of the city to apply revenues collected pursuant to
this tax to the payment of principal and interest or other authorized charges
in respect to revenue bonds issued by the city to be repaid with the revenues
from this tax, whether or not such bonds are outstanding at the time of the
enactment of this provision, all revenue received and collected by this tax on
behalf of the city of Mitchell pursuant to this chapter shall be appropriated
by the city council on an annual basis. (Ord. 2547, 8-1-2016)
2-4-5: APPLICABILITY OF SALES AND USE TAX:
All sections of chapter 2, "Sales And Use Taxes", of this title, pertaining to
collection, distribution of collection, interpretation and penalty shall apply
to this tax. (Ord. 1540, 10-20-1986)
CHAPTER 5
GROSS RECEIPTS TAX ON CONTRACTORS OF REALTY IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-5-1: Purpose And Interpretation
2-5-2: Imposition Of Tax
2-5-3: Collection Of Tax
2-5-4: Exemptions
2-5-5: Violations; Penalty
2-5-1: PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the city by imposing a municipal gross receipts tax on realty improvement
contracts pursuant to the powers granted to the municipality by the state by
South Dakota Codified Laws chapter 10-52, uniform municipal non ad valorem tax
law and South Dakota Codified Laws 10-46A-11. (1984 Code § 34B-10)
   B.   It is declared to be the intention of this chapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same as all
sections of the South Dakota realty improvement contract gross receipts tax 1 ,
and that this tax shall be considered a similar tax except for the rate thereof
to that tax. (1984 Code § 34B-14)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL ch. 10-46A.
2-5-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
Commencing with the first calendar quarter following the effective date hereof,
there is hereby imposed as a municipal gross receipts tax, a tax of one-half
percent (1/2%) on the gross receipts of all prime contractors and other persons
engaged in realty improvement contracts within the jurisdiction of the city who
are subject to the South Dakota realty improvement contract gross receipts tax.
(1984 Code § 34B-11)
2-5-3: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization, as amended, granted by South
Dakota Codified Laws chapter 10-52 and South Dakota Codified Laws chapter 10-
46A and shall be collected by the South Dakota department of revenue in
accordance with the same rules and regulations applicable to the realty
improvement contract gross receipts tax and under such additional rules and
regulations as the secretary of revenue of the state shall lawfully prescribe.
(1984 Code § 34B-12)
2-5-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Pursuant to South Dakota Codified Laws 10-46A-6, the gross receipts of
subcontractors or retailers from sales of materials or services, which are to
be used in the realty improvement contracts, subject to the tax imposed by this
municipality upon retail sales are hereby exempt from such retail sales and use
taxes, providing a state exemption certificate is presented to the supplier at
the time of purchase. (1984 Code § 34B-13)
2-5-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed by this
chapter and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be fined as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, all such collection remedies authorized by
South Dakota Codified Laws chapter 10-46A are hereby authorized for the
collection of these excise taxes by the department of revenue. (1984 Code §
34B-15; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 6
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
SECTION:
2-6-1: Tax Increment Financing Permitted
2-6-1: TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PERMITTED:
The City of Mitchell hereby permits the use of tax increment financing pursuant
to the provisions of South Dakota Codified Laws chapter 11-9. A developer
seeking to utilize tax increment financing must comply with the City's
administrative review process prior to being considered by the Planning
Commission and the City Council. Such administrative review process shall be
outlined in a handbook which shall be approved by the City Council by
resolution. (Ord. O2018-12, 10-15-2018)
CHAPTER 7
PROPERTY TAX DISCRETIONARY FORMULA
SECTION:
2-7-1: Purpose
2-7-2: Classes Of Property Eligible For Discretionary Formula
2-7-3: Boundaries Of Discretionary Formula Districts
2-7-4: Valuation Of Eligible Properties
2-7-5: Discretionary Formula
2-7-6: Standards For Improvements
2-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide reduced taxation of the following
identified property classes pursuant to SDCL Section 10-6-137. (Ord. O2023-03,
5-1-2023)
2-7-2: CLASSES OF PROPERTY ELIGIBLE FOR DISCRETIONARY FORMULA:
   A.   Industrial And Commercial: Any new industrial or commercial structure,
or any addition, renovation, or reconstruction to an existing structure,
located within a designated urban renewal area, if the new structure, addition,
renovation, or reconstruction has a full and true value of thirty thousand
dollars ($30,000.00) or more. The structure must be located in an urban renewal
area defined under MCC Section
2-7-3 below;
   B.   Redevelopment Neighborhoods: Any new residential structure, or addition
to or renovation of an existing structure, located within a redevelopment
neighborhood, if the new structure, addition, or renovation has a full and true
value of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more. The structure must be
located in a redevelopment neighborhood defined under MCC Section
2-7-3 below.
   C.   Other than those classes specifically adopted by this section as
eligible for the discretionary formula, no other classes of property under SDCL
Section 10-6-137. If a class is not adopted under this section, but a
discretionary formula is established for such class under MCC Section 2-7-5,
such discretionary formula shall not be used until such class is adopted by
ordinance and expressly included in this section. (Ord. O2023-03, 5-1-2023)
2-7-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISCRETIONARY FORMULA DISTRICTS:
For those property classes which require the establishment of district
boundaries, each district shall have the boundaries set below:
   A.   Mitchell Historic Commercial Urban Renewal Area: The Mitchell Historic
Commercial Urban Renewal Area is hereby established for discretionary formula
purposes. The Mitchell Historic Commercial Urban Renewal Area shall have the
same boundaries as the previously established Mitchell Historic Commercial
District. Pursuant to SDCL Section 11-8-3, such area is a blighted area due to
the predominance of deteriorated site improvements.
   B.   Mitchell West Central Residential Redevelopment Neighborhood: The
Mitchell West Central Residential Redevelopment Neighborhood is hereby
established for discretionary formula purposes. The Mitchell West Central
Residential Redevelopment Neighborhood shall have the same boundaries as the
previously established Mitchell West Central Residential District. Pursuant to
SDCL Section 11-7-3, such area is a blighted area due to the predominance of
deteriorated site improvements. (Ord. O2023-03, 5-1-2023)
2-7-4: VALUATION OF ELIGIBLE PROPERTIES:
   A.   Any residential property located within the corporate limits of the
City of Mitchell, South Dakota, classified pursuant to the following, shall,
following construction, initially be valued for taxation purposes in the usual
manner, and that value shall be referred to as the "Pre-Adjustment Value." The
assessed value to be used for tax purposes shall follow the discretionary
formula described in MCC Section
2-7-5 below.
   B.   Reconstruction and renovation as used in this chapter means only
improvements that increase the true and full value of the structure and shall
not include normal maintenance and repair.
   C.   For properties classified under MCC Section
2-7-2(A):
      1.   The assessed value during any of the five (5) years may not be less
than the assessed value of the property in the year preceding the first year of
the tax years following construction.
      2.   Any structure that is partially constructed on the assessment date
may be valued for tax purposes pursuant to this Chapter and the valuation may
not be less than the assessed valuation of the property in the year preceding
the beginning of construction.
      3.   The period that the property is valued for tax purposes under this
Chapter may include the years when the property is partially constructed.
   D.   For properties classified under MCC Section
2-7-2(B):
      1.   During construction, the assessed value of the property may not
exceed the assessed value of the property in the year preceding the beginning
of construction.
      2.   For purposes of MCC Section
2-7-5, the percentages used in the discretionary formula are limited to that
portion of the assessed value that exceeds the property's assessed value in the
year preceding the start of construction.
   E.   Property owners of any discretionary formula eligible property may
choose to waive the application of the discretionary formula by submitting a
written waiver to the City Finance Office, in which case the property will be
assessed in full without application of the discretionary formula. Any waiver
of the discretionary formula by an owner shall not prevent the discretionary
formula from applying to subsequent eligible new structures by that owner.
(Ord. O2023-03, 5-1-2023)
2-7-5: DISCRETIONARY FORMULA:
The following discretionary formulas shall apply:
   A.   For properties classified as affordable housing, redevelopment
districts, or commercial residential:
 
Year One   25% of Pre-Adjustment Value
Year Two   25% of Pre-Adjustment Value
Year Three 50% of Pre-Adjustment Value
Year Four  50% of Pre-Adjustment Value
Year Five  75% of Pre-Adjustment Value
Year Six   75% of Pre-Adjustment Value
Year Seven 100% of Pre-Adjustment Value
 
   B.   For properties classified in any class other than those listed in MCC
2-7-5(A) above:
 
Year One   20% of Pre-Adjustment Value
Year Two   40% of Pre-Adjustment Value
Year Three 60% of Pre-Adjustment Value
Year Four  80% of Pre-Adjustment Value
Year Five  100% of Pre-Adjustment Value
 
   C.   Following the applicable five (5) year or seven (7) year period above,
discretionary formula eligible properties shall thereafter be assessed at the
same percentage as all other property for tax purposes. (Ord. O2023-03, 5-1-
2023)
2-7-6: STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   For a property to be eligible to receive the discretionary formula, any
new structures, additions, reconstructions, renovations, or other such
improvements must meet all applicable city or county building and zoning code
requirements.
   B.   For a property to be eligible to receive the discretionary formula
under the redevelopment neighborhood classification, in addition to the
requirements in MCC Section
2-7-6(A) above, and pursuant to SDCL 10-6-142, the property must meet any
standards for redevelopment neighborhoods adopted by the City. Such standards
may be established by the City Council by resolution. (Ord. O2023-03, 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 8
BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT 4
SECTION:
2-8-1: Establishment Of District
2-8-2: Boundaries Of Business Improvement District Number 4
2-8-3: New Properties With Business Improvement District Number 4
2-8-4: Purpose Of The District
2-8-5: Occupational Tax Imposed
2-8-6: Duty To Account For Complimentary And Leased Rooms
2-8-7: Computation And Collection Of Occupational Tax
2-8-8: Certified Report Required Along With Occupation Tax Payment
2-8-9: Failure To Pay Occupational Tax
2-8-10: Payment Of Fees
2-8-11:    Costs Incurred By The City In Administering The Occupational Tax
2-8-12:    Business Improvement District Number 4 Board
2-8-13:    Severability
2-8-14:    Reporting
2-8-15:    Dissolution Of The District
2-8-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT:
Pursuant to the provisions of SDCL Chapter 9-55, Business Improvement District
Number 4 (BID 4) of the City is hereby created. A resolution designating the
boundaries of the business area and appointing members to the BID 4 board was
approved by City Council on August 7, 2023. Upon receiving the recommendation
of the BID 4 board, a resolution of intent to create BID 4 was approved by the
City Council on August 21, 2023. The public hearing on creation of BID 4 was
held in the City Council Chambers, located at 612 N. Main, Mitchell SD 57301 on
October 2, 2023. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-2: BOUNDARIES OF BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NUMBER 4:
   A.   The boundaries of BID 4 are as follows: That property within the City
boundaries which is zoned and used for hotel, motel, or lodging establishment
excluding any hotel, motel, or lodging establishment with less than twenty-
eight (28) rooms, unless the hotel or motel elects to be included within the
district.
   B.   A list of all properties included in BID 4, which list shall identify
the name of the hotel, motel, or lodging establishment, the number of sleeping
rooms and each property's address, shall be kept on file in the Finance Office.
The initial list shall contain all properties currently included in BID 4. If a
property no longer meets the criteria for inclusion in BID 4, the owner or
proprietor of the hotel, motel, or lodging establishment shall provide the
Finance Officer with a sworn, written statement setting forth the relevant
change in property or operation that disqualifies the hotel, motel, or lodging
establishment. The Finance Officer shall remove the hotel, motel, or lodging
establishment if the statement shows the hotel, motel, or lodging establishment
no longer qualifies for inclusion in BID 4. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-3: NEW PROPERTIES WITHIN BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NUMBER 4:
Pursuant to SDCL 9-55-4, the City Council may add, by resolution, hotel, motel,
or lodging establishment properties with twenty-eight (28) or more rooms which
were not in operation or did not meet the occupancy threshold at the time of
BID 4's creation. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-4: PURPOSE OF THE DISTRICT:
BID 4 is created for the purpose of funding the enhancement, expansion,
marketing and promotion of visitor facilities, events, attractions and
activities benefitting the City and its hotels, motels, and lodging
establishments located within BID 4 consistent with the purposes set forth in
SDCL 9-55-3. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-5: OCCUPATIONAL TAX IMPOSED:
An occupational tax in the amount of two dollars ($2.00) per occupied night
shall be imposed upon the above hotels, motels, or lodging establishments based
upon rooms rented to transient guests. This occupation tax shall be fair,
equitable and uniform as to class. No occupational tax may be imposed on any
transient guest who has been offered a room by a hotel, motel, or lodging
establishment on a complimentary basis whereby no fee or rent is charged for
such room. Additionally, no occupational tax may be imposed on any transient
guest who stays twenty-eight (28) days or more consecutive nights. (Ord. O2023-
07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-6: DUTY TO ACCOUNT FOR COMPLIMENTARY AND LEASED ROOMS:
Each hotel, motel, or lodging establishment shall account for complimentary or
leased rooms which are also subject to audit by the City, with records showing
the reason rooms were provided on a complimentary basis or for a period of
twenty-eight (28) days or more. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-7: COMPUTATION AND COLLECTION OF OCCUPATIONAL TAX:
The City Finance Officer is authorized to determine and compute the tax in
accordance with this chapter. The occupational tax assessed pursuant to this
chapter shall be remitted by the twentieth day of each month to the City, based
on the previous calendar-month tax collections. Should the twentieth day of the
month fall on a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday observed by the City, the
occupancy tax remittance shall be due on the first business day immediately
following the twentieth. The City Finance Officer or their designee shall be
authorized to audit the books, ledgers, or franchise reports of any hotel,
motel, or lodging establishment subject to the terms of this chapter, including
the right to inspect daily reports of such hotels and motels so as to ensure
that any occupancy tax is properly remitted to the City. The City may seek
injunctive relief against any hotel, motel, or lodging establishment which does
not remit the proper amount of tax monies when due. Each hotel, motel, or
lodging establishment subject to this chapter shall keep accurate records of
amounts collected from transient guests for review by the City Finance Officer
or their designee. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-8: CERTIFIED REPORT REQUIRED ALONG WITH OCCUPATION TAX PAYMENT:
Any business governed by this chapter shall certify with the remittance of tax
imposed by this chapter that the accounting of rooms rented is accurate and the
tax payment made is accurate according to the business records. Any business
governed by this chapter shall sign a sworn statement, to be submitted along
with the remittance of any tax imposed by this chapter on or before the
twentieth day of each month, stating as follows:
      “I declare, under penalty of perjury, that the above accounting of rooms
rented is accurate and the tax payment made herein is accurate to the best of
my knowledge according to my business records.
      Signed                         Dated                            
      Title                                                   ”
(Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-9: FAILURE TO PAY OCCUPATIONAL TAX:
All remittances of occupancy tax collected pursuant to this article shall be
due and received in the Office of the City Finance Officer no later than the
twentieth day following the month for which the occupancy tax remittances are
due. All amounts that are not remitted as set forth above will be charged a
late fee in the amount of ten percent of the total amount due.
Failure to remit such tax shall constitute a violation of this chapter which
may be punishable by a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) and/or
imprisonment of up to thirty (30) days. Any unpaid balance under this article
shall constitute lien upon the property owned by the business or user of space
being taxed and shall become a lien against and shall run with property taxes
and assessments.
The City shall have the ability to deny the issuance of permits or licenses or
any renewals thereof to any business or premises that fails to conform to
provisions of this article, including, but not limited to, building permits,
malt beverage licenses, wine licenses and liquor licenses.
Nothing with this provision shall be construed as limiting any other rights
which the City has or may pursue in seeking collection of monies not paid under
the terms of this chapter. In the event this tax becomes subject to supervision
by the State through the State's department of revenue, any rights which the
City has herein shall be deemed cumulative to any powers which inure to the
benefit of the State. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-10: PAYMENT OF FEES:
In the event legal action is required to collect any delinquent assessments, if
there is a tax that has not been paid in accordance with this chapter, the
hotel, motel or lodging establishment failing to pay will be responsible for
and pay all attorney's fees and costs incurred by the City in collecting the
unpaid tax. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-11: COSTS INCURRED BY THE CITY IN ADMINISTERING THE OCCUPATIONAL TAX:
All costs incurred by the City of the City Finance Officer pursuant to this
article shall be paid from occupancy taxes collected under this article.
Administrative costs are not to exceed two percent. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-12: BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NUMBER 4 BOARD:
There is hereby continued, as has been previously established pursuant to SDCL
Chapter 9-55, a Business Improvement District Number 4 Board.
   A..   Composition.
      1.   The BID 4 Board shall consist of nine (9) members. The Mayor and a
council representative shall constitute two (2) members of the BID 4 board and
shall not be subject to term limits. In addition to the Mayor and council
representative, the BID 4 board shall also consist of seven (7) additional
members, appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. Persons
who are eligible to fill the seven (7) additional member seats of the BID 4
Board must be property owners, residents, business operators, or users of space
within the business area to be improved, and will consist of:
         a.   Five (5) hoteliers from within BID 4; and
         b.   Two (2) other eligible persons who are not hoteliers.
   B.   Terms. All members of the Board shall be appointed to serve a three
(3)-year term. A member of the Board may serve consecutive terms if so
appointed by the Mayor and Council. The terms for the five (5) non-city members
shall initially be staggered so that three (3) member serves a full three (3)-
year term, two (2) members serve two (2)-year initial terms, and two (2)
members serve one (1)-year initial terms.
   C.   Vacancies. The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall fill
any vacancy of members for the remainder of the term vacated.
   D.   Officers. The BID 4 Board shall annually select from its members a
chair, vice chair, and secretary.
   E.   Compensation. All members of the Board shall serve as such without
compensation, except for actual expenses, which shall be subject to approval of
the City Council.
   F.   Powers of the board. The primary duty of the BID 4 board is to
recommend a budget for the use of BID proceeds to the City Council. The use of
BID 4 proceeds is limited to the purposes provided under Section 2-8-4 above.
The BID 4 board shall be authorized to take such actions necessary to carry out
the appropriated expenditures included in the Council's approved budget for BID
4, upon any such further restrictions the Mayor and Council may provide during
the budget approval process. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023; amd. Ord. O2024-01, 2-
5-2024)
2-8-13: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section, clause or provision of this chapter be declared invalid,
the same shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part
thereof, other than the part declared to be invalid. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-
2023)
2-8-14: REPORTING:
The BID 4 Board will provide annual reports of their activities to the City
Council. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
2-8-15: DISSOLUTION OF THE DISTRICT:
BID 4 may be dissolved pursuant to SDCL 9-55-22, however there shall be no
requirement that the revenue collected from the tax be used only for the
promotion of the district in order for a majority of landowners to petition for
dissolution. (Ord. O2023-07, 10-16-2023)
TITLE 3
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD AND COMMISSION MEMBERS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Appointment Procedures
3-1-2: Powers And Duties
3-1-3: Advisory Boards
3-1-4: Rules
3-1-1: APPOINTMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Appointment: Unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance, members of
boards, commissions and standing committees of the city shall be residents of
the city or an owner of a business within the city of Mitchell, which owner has
a Mitchell, South Dakota, mailing address, or an owner of real property within
the city of Mitchell, which owner has a Mitchell, South Dakota, mailing
address, and appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. The
appointments shall generally be made and confirmed at the first regular city
council meeting in July of each year, or at any other meeting as shall be
deemed appropriate by the mayor and city council. Persons appointed as members
of a board, commission or committee of the city shall serve at the pleasure of
the mayor and city council. (Ord. 2470, 4-21-2014)
   B.   Terms: Unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the term of
appointment shall be for three (3) years. Terms of members shall be staggered,
such that to the extent possible, the terms of proportionately equal numbers of
members shall expire annually. No person shall serve more than two (2)
successive terms without at least one year intervening, unless the city council
shall waive such requirement. A person appointed to fill an unexpired term may
be appointed successively for two (2) complete full terms. (Ord. 2269, 2-18-
2008)
   C.   Unexpired Terms: Subject to the approval of the city council, the mayor
shall appoint persons to fill the unexpired term of any appointed person who
for any reason shall vacate an appointed position prior to the expiration of
the term.
   D.   Withdrawal Of Appointment: Whenever the mayor shall deem it in the best
interests of the city, the mayor shall have authority to withdraw any
previously made and approved appointment; and the appointment of any such
person shall be terminated upon such withdrawal of appointment by the mayor.
The mayor shall report any withdrawal of appointment to the city council at the
next regular city council meeting. (2005 Code)
3-1-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
Unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the powers and duties of the
boards, commissions and committees of the city shall be as from time to time
prescribed by the mayor and the city council; and all acts of the boards,
commissions or committees of the city shall be subject to the supervision and
review of the mayor and city council. Except where otherwise provided by law,
nothing contained in this title shall limit the superior authority of the city
council to effect any decision it shall enact in respect to the subject matter
of this title. Each board, commission or committee of the city may, subject to
the approval of the city council, enact rules for the orderly conduct of its
business. (2005 Code)
3-1-3: ADVISORY BOARDS:
The city council, by resolution, may establish an advisory board of citizens
for the purpose of providing advice and assistance to any department or
division within the city. Unless otherwise provided and authorized by law, an
advisory board so established shall have no official authority. (2005 Code)
3-1-4: RULES:
Each board, commission or committee established or appointed by the city shall
have power to establish such procedural rules as deemed necessary by it for the
orderly conduct of its business. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-2-1: Commission Established
3-2-2: Powers And Duties
3-2-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The planning and zoning commission of the city shall consist of not
less than five (5) members appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city
council. The full term of each of the members shall be for five (5) years, and
shall be on a rotating basis so that the term of at least one member shall
expire each year. Appointment for partial terms may be made in order to
establish or maintain the membership rotation provided for herein.
   B.   The commission shall elect is chair from among its members for a term
of one year, with eligibility for reelection, and may fill such other of its
offices as it may create in the manner prescribed by the rules of the
commission. (Ord. 1812, 8-7-1995)
3-2-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning and zoning commission shall exercise and perform all powers and
duties as are, or may be, provided by law. (Ord. 1812, 8-7-1995)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
3-3-1: Board Established
3-3-2: Organization
3-3-3: Powers And Duties
3-3-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
A board of adjustment is hereby established which shall consist of all of the
aldermen of the city council, with the mayor acting as chair of said board.
(Ord. 1270, 5-23-1977)
3-3-2: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Rules: The board shall adopt rules necessary to conduct its affairs and
in the keeping of the provisions of the zoning title 1 . Meetings shall be held
at the call of the chair and at such other times as the board may determine.
   B.   Meetings: The chair or, in his absence, the president of the city
council, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings shall be open to the public 2 .
   C.   Minutes And Records: The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member on each question or if absent or failing to
vote, indicate such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions and the reasons for such actions, all of which shall be a
public record and be immediately filed with the finance officer. (Ord. 1270, 5-
23-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
2 2. SDCL § 1-25-1 et seq.
3-3-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board shall have the powers and duties as set out in the zoning title of
this code 1 . (2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. See section
  10-3-3 of this code.
CHAPTER 4
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Commission Established
3-4-3: Powers And Duties
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter and any subsequent enactments or amendments hereto
is to promote, preserve and develop the historical resources of the city in
accordance with the provisions of South Dakota Codified Laws chapter 1-19B.
(Ord. 1507, 8-5-1985)
3-4-2: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
The city council hereby authorizes the establishment of an historic
preservation commission, hereinafter referred to as the "commission", to
preserve, promote and develop the historical resources of the city in
accordance with the provisions of South Dakota Codified Laws chapter 1-19B.
   A.   Membership: The commission shall consist of not less than five (5) nor
more than ten (10) members who shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by
the city council. Commission members shall be appointed with due regard to
proper representation of such fields as history, architecture, urban planning,
archeology and law.
   B.   Terms Of Office: All commission members shall reside within the city
and shall serve a term of three (3) years; except, that when the commission is
first appointed, the lengths of the terms shall be varied in such a fashion as
to assure that no more than one-third (1/3) of the terms expire in any given
year. Thereafter, appointment of each member shall be for a full three (3) year
term unless the appointment is made to fill a vacancy. Said members shall be
eligible for reappointment as specified by the city council.
   C.   Organization: The commission shall elect officers from its membership
to consist of a chair, vice chair and secretary who shall serve a term of one
year. The commission shall hold an annual organization meeting for the purpose
of electing officers.
   D.   Staff: The commission may employ such personnel as it deems necessary.
(Ord. 1507, 8-5-1985)
3-4-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The historic preservation commission established pursuant to section
3-4-2 of this chapter shall be authorized to:
   A.   General:
      1.   Conduct a survey of local historic properties, complying with all
applicable standards and criteria of the statewide survey undertaken by the
cultural preservation office of the department of education and cultural
affairs.
      2.   Acquire fee and lesser interest in historic properties, including
adjacent or associated lands by purchase, bequest or donation. All lands,
buildings or structures acquired by the commission with funds other than those
appropriated by the city may be acquired and held in the name of the
commission, the city, or both.
      3.   Preserve, restore, maintain and operate historic properties under
the ownership or control of the commission.
      4.   Lease, sell and otherwise transfer or dispose of historic properties
subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a manner that
will preserve the property.
      5.   Contract, with the approval of the city council, with the state or
the federal government or any agency of either, or with any other organization.
      6.   Cooperate with the federal, state and local governments in the
pursuance of the objectives of historic preservation.
      7.   Participate in the conduct of land use, urban renewal and other
planning processes undertaken by the city.
      8.   Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide information to the city
council for the purposes of historic preservation.
      9.   Promote and conduct an educational, interpretative program on
historic properties within the city.
      10.   Enter, solely in the performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey thereof.
However, no member, employee or agent of the commission may enter any private
building or structure without the express consent of the owner or occupant
thereof.
   B.   Notice To Director Of Equalization: Upon the adoption of this or any
subsequent amendments designating historic properties within the city, the
historic preservation commission shall give notice of such designation to the
director of equalization of Davison County. The designation and any recorded
restrictions upon the property limiting its use for preservation purposes shall
be considered by the director of equalization in appraising the property for
tax purposes. (Ord. 1507, 8-5-1985)
CHAPTER 5
ARTS COUNCIL
(Repealed By Ord. O2019-15, 8-19-2019)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC COMMISSION
(Repealed By Ord. O2019-18, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 7
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
SECTION:
3-7-1: Board Established
3-7-2: Board Membership
3-7-3: Powers And Duties
3-7-4: Use Of Water From City Mains
3-7-5: Special Fund
3-7-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created and established the park and recreation board of the
city, created according to law as a combined board, as provided by South Dakota
Codified Laws 9-38-90.1. The park and recreation board shall consist of seven
(7) members, and shall exercise of all of the powers and duties that the park
board and recreation board are, and have been, permitted to exercise separately
by law 1 . (1984 Code § 26-14; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 9-38-90 et seq.
3-7-2: BOARD MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment: The park and recreation board shall be under the control
and supervision of the city council and the city council shall prescribe all
rules, regulations and responsibilities of the said park and recreation board
in a manner not inconsistent with law. (1984 Code § 26-15; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Oath And Bond: Before entering upon his official duties, each member of
the park and recreation board shall file with the finance officer the usual
oath of office and, if required by the city council, bond for the faithful
performance of his duties. (1984 Code § 26-17; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Qualification Of Appointees: Any resident of the city of Mitchell, an
owner of a business within the city of Mitchell, any property owner of property
within the city of Mitchell, and any person who works in the city of Mitchell,
with a Mitchell, South Dakota address, may be appointed as a member of the park
and recreation board by the mayor, and confirmed by the city council. (Ord.
2304, 5-4-2009)
3-7-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The park and recreation board shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Parkways And Parkings:
      1.   To manage, supervise and maintain the parks and parkways, except
parkings of the city, as provided by statute 1  and applicable ordinance.
      2.   To manage and supervise the parkings in the city as provided by
statute and applicable ordinance.
   B.   Landscaping:
      1.   To control and manage the planting, maintenance, trimming and
removal of trees, shrubs and plants in any and all public grounds,
thoroughfares and lands appurtenant thereto, throughout the city. (1984 Code §
26-18)
      2.   To have exclusive power and control over all trees, shrubs, plants
and grass planted in parks and parkways, including planting, pruning, spraying,
cultivating, preserving and otherwise maintaining the same.
      3.   No person shall plant, remove, prune or spray any tree, shrub or
plant in any park or parkway, without the written permission of the park and
recreation board, or its authorized representative.
      4.   No person shall hinder, obstruct or interfere with any employee or
agent of the park and recreation board, while engaged in carrying out the
provisions of this chapter. (1984 Code § 26-20)
   C.   Public Recreation System:
      1.   To create, manage, supervise, maintain and operate the system of
public recreation.
      2.   To manage, create, supervise and operate playgrounds and children's
parks.
      3.   To acquire, equip and maintain land, buildings or other recreational
facilities and expend its funds therefor.
      4.   To determine and set user fees for all programs, services and for
the use of public recreational facilities as deemed appropriate by the board.
(1984 Code § 26-18)
   D.   Rules And Regulations: To make rules and regulations governing the
conduct of all persons within any public park, parkways, parkings, public
grounds or any of the recreation system, lands, buildings or other facilities
controlled by the park and recreation board. Such rules and regulations shall
be effective upon being posted in a conspicuous place within or upon such
lands, buildings or other recreational facilities. No person shall violate any
such rule conspicuously posted in or upon any land, buildings or recreational
facilities. (1984 Code § 26-21)
   E.   Acceptance Of Gifts: It may accept gifts or bequests for the benefit of
such park and recreational service. (1984 Code § 26-22)
   F.   Additional Powers And Duties: To have such other powers and duties as
provided by statute and applicable ordinances. (1984 Code § 26-18)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL §§ 9-38-91, 9-38-92.
3-7-4: USE OF WATER FROM CITY MAINS:
The park and recreation board, in its use of water from the city mains, shall
comply with the rules and regulations of the water department as to the amount
of water used and the time of such usage. (1984 Code § 26-19)
3-7-5: SPECIAL FUND:
The receipts derived from any separate levies provided for park and recreation
purposes shall be maintained in a single account, in accordance with South
Dakota Codified Laws 9-38-90.3, and the same shall be used, disbursed and spent
for the purposes determined by the board, and said board shall be responsible
for any funds in said account and shall be responsible to the city council for
its administration of said account. (1984 Code § 26-16)
CHAPTER 8
AIRPORT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
(Repealed By Ord. O2019-16, 8-19-2019)
CHAPTER 9
CORN PALACE ENTERTAINMENT BOARD
SECTION:
3-9-1: Board Established
3-9-2: Board Membership And Terms
3-9-3: Appointment
3-9-4: Organization Of Board
3-9-5: Corn Palace Festival
3-9-6: Murals And Decorations
3-9-7: Contracts
3-9-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of administering, conducting and promoting entertainment
activities for the Corn Palace, including, but not limited to, the annual Corn
Palace Festival, there is established the Corn Palace entertainment board as
provided in the following sections of this chapter. The board shall hold such
meetings as it shall deem necessary to manage, conduct, and carry out its
duties. (Ord. 2487, 10-20-2014; amd. Ord. 2556, 12-5-2016; Ord. O2019-22, 10-7-
2019)
3-9-2: BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS:
   A.   The Corn Palace entertainment board shall consist of nine (9) members
as further provided by this section.
   B.   The mayor shall appoint, subject to city council approval, one (1)
member of the Mitchell city council to serve for such time as designated by the
mayor.
   C.   The mayor shall appoint, subject to city council approval, seven (7)
citizens of the city who shall serve up to two (2) consecutive terms of three
(3) years each. The terms of the citizen members of the board shall be
staggered such that an approximately equal number of citizen member terms shall
expire each year.
   D.   The mayor shall appoint, subject to city council approval, one (1)
member nominated by the Mitchell chamber of commerce executive board who shall
then be serving on said executive board. This member may serve indefinitely
unless said member no longer meets the eligibility criteria for this position
or is removed by the mayor.
   E.   The mayor may remove any member from their position on the Corn Palace
entertainment board at any time.
   F.   Each member of the board, following expiration of an appointed term,
shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified, unless that member is
disqualified for reason other than term expiration. (Ord. 2487, 10-20-2014;
amd. Ord. 2556, 12-5-2016; Ord. O2019-22, 10-7-2019)
3-9-3: APPOINTMENT:
   A.   The members of the board composed as in the preceding section of this
chapter provided who are subject to appointment in any given year, shall be
appointed by the mayor at the first regular city council meeting in October of
each year, or at such other time as shall be convenient for the mayor and the
city council. Vacancies in any board position shall be filled at any time by
nomination by the mayor and approval by the city council. A person appointed to
fill a vacancy on the board occurring for reason other than expiration of
eligibility of any member shall be eligible for reappointment to the board for
the full term of eligibility which would exist without consideration of the
completion of a partial term filled upon a vacancy occurring for reasons other
than expiration of a prior member's term. All members of the board, regardless
of the method by which such membership was obtained, shall be entitled to vote
on all matters which come before the board in respect to the business of the
board.
   B.   In the event that the mayor is for any reason unable to find a willing
and qualified nominee acceptable to the mayor, the city council, may by
majority vote, waive the limitation on successive terms in respect to any board
member. (Ord. 2487, 10-20-2014; amd. Ord. O2019-22, 10-7-2019)
3-9-4: ORGANIZATION OF BOARD:
The Corn Palace entertainment board shall organize by annually electing
officers from its membership consisting of a president and vice president.
There shall be no limit on successive terms in respect to any officer of the
board. The sole qualification for holding an office within the board shall be
board membership. (Ord. 2487, 10-20-2014; amd. Ord. O2019-22, 10-7-2019)
3-9-5: CORN PALACE FESTIVAL:
The board shall, under the supervision of the mayor and city council, have full
charge of the arrangements for and the management and conduct of the Corn
Palace Festival and associated entertainment; and may, subject to the
supervision of the mayor and city council, conduct promotional activities
relating to the annual Corn Palace Festival and associated entertainment and
other appropriate purposes. (Ord. 2487, 10-20-2014)
3-9-6: MURALS AND DECORATIONS:
The Corn Palace entertainment board shall, under the supervision of the mayor
and city council, select and develop an annual theme for the exterior, and when
appropriate, the interior, of the Corn Palace. The theme selected by the board
shall provide direction to the artist employed by the board for the annual
redecoration of the exterior murals of the Corn Palace, and when appropriate
and directed by the mayor and city council, the murals within the interior of
the Corn Palace. All decorations upon the Corn Palace, whether interior or
exterior, shall be subject to supervision and final approval of the mayor and
city council. (Ord. 2487, 10-20-2014)
3-9-7: CONTRACTS:
The Corn Palace entertainment board shall have power to execute and carry out
contracts in furtherance of its authorized purposes. (Ord. 2487, 10-20-2014)
CHAPTER 10
MUSEUM BOARD
(Repealed By Ord. O2019-17, 8-19-2019)
CHAPTER 11
COMMUNITY SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
3-11-1: Board Established
3-11-2: Board Membership And Terms
3-11-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
For the purposes of recommending and advising the community services director
on departmental functions, there is established the community services advisory
board which shall consist of nine (9) members, the makeup and appointment of
which are as further provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2546, 7-18-2016)
3-11-2: BOARD MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS:
The community services advisory board shall consist of one member of the
Mitchell city council, two (2) members from the Palace Transit division, two
(2) members from the RSVP division, two (2) members from the nutrition
division, and two (2) members from the James Valley Community Center
membership. Each member of the board shall be appointed in accordance with
section
3-1-1 of this title. (Ord. 2546, 7-18-2016)
CHAPTER 12
GOLF AND CEMETERY BOARD
SECTION:
3-12-1: Board Established
3-12-2: Board Membership
3-12-3: Powers And Duties
3-12-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created and established the golf and cemetery board of the
city. The golf and cemetery board shall be under the control and supervision of
the city council and the city council shall prescribe all rules, regulations,
and responsibilities of the said golf and cemetery board in a manner not
inconsistent with law. The golf and cemetery board shall consist of seven (7)
members, and shall exercise all of the powers and duties that the golf and
cemetery board have been granted under this chapter. (Ord. O2020-16, 12-21-
2020)
3-12-2: BOARD MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Oath And Bond: Before entering upon his official duties, each member of
the golf and cemetery board shall file with the finance officer the usual oath
of office and, if required by the city council, bond for the faithful
performance of the member's duties.
   B.   Qualification Of Appointees: Any resident of the city of Mitchell, an
owner of a business within the city of Mitchell, any property owner of property
within the city of Mitchell, and any person who works in the city of Mitchell,
with a Mitchell, South Dakota address, may be appointed as a member of the golf
and cemetery board by the mayor, and confirmed by the city council at the first
regular city council meeting in October of each year, or at such other time as
shall be convenient for the mayor and the city council.
   C.   Term:
      1.   Each board member shall serve for a term of three (3) years. The
terms of the board members shall be staggered such that an approximately equal
number of member terms shall expire each year. Eligibility for golf and
cemetery board member positions shall not be limited by serving any number of
consecutive terms.
      2.   At the time this chapter is adopted, all current members serving on
the golf and cemetery board are reappointed to serve the remainder of their
respective terms.
      3.   The mayor shall have the authority to remove a member of the golf
and cemetery board at any time.
   D.   Organization: The golf and cemetery board shall elect is chair from
among its members for a term of one year, with eligibility for reelection, and
may fill such other of its offices as it may create in the manner prescribed by
the rules of the commission. (Ord. O2020-16, 12-21-2020)
3-12-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The golf and cemetery board shall have the purpose of managing, overseeing,
supervising, and guiding the operations of the Lakeview Golf Course and
Mitchell Cemetery in connection with the department head and staff responsible
for these locations. The golf and cemetery board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   A.   General Powers:
      1.   To set such rules and procedures as may be necessary for the conduct
of its meetings.
      2.   To determine and set user fees for all programs, services, and for
the use of golf and cemetery facilities as deemed appropriate by the board. The
golf and cemetery board shall provide notice to the City Council of any changes
to the board's fees and the City Council reserves the power to adjust such
fees.
      3.   To execute and carry out contracts in furtherance of its authorized
purposes.
      4.   To make rules and regulations governing the conduct of all persons
within the Lakeview Golf Course and Mitchell Cemetery grounds and facilities.
Such rules and regulations shall be effective upon being posted in a
conspicuous place within or upon such grounds and facilities. No person shall
violate any such rule conspicuously posted in or upon any such grounds and
facilities.
   B.   Acceptance Of Gifts: The golf and cemetery board may accept gifts or
bequests for the benefit of its facilities.
   C.   Additional Powers And Duties: To have such other powers and duties as
provided by statute and applicable ordinances. (Ord. O2020-16, 12-21-2020)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Business Licenses Or Permits Required
4-1-2: Application For License Or Permit
4-1-3: Issuance; Conditions Of License Or Permit
4-1-4: Exemptions
4-1-5: Revocation Of License Or Permit
4-1-6: Appeal Procedures
4-1-1: BUSINESS LICENSES OR PERMITS REQUIRED:
If a license or permit is required for certain business or activities by any
provision of this code, then no person shall engage in those businesses or
activities without first having obtained such license or permit as required by
this code. This chapter does not apply to zoning matters or matters governed by
the uniform codes administered by the city’s public works department, police
department, or fire and EMS department. (Ord. 2444, 7-15-2013; amd. Ord. O2020-
14, 12-7-2020)
4-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Except as otherwise provided, an applicant for license or permit required by
the provisions of this code shall make and file an application, in writing,
with the finance officer on the form from time to time prescribed by the city
finance officer.
   A.   Unless otherwise provided, an application for license or permit shall
state:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Trade name, if any, under which license or permit is to be
exercised.
      3.   If a partnership, the name and address of each partner.
      4.   If a corporation or LLC, the names and addresses of the principal
officer(s) or manager(s).
      5.   Place of business or location where the license or permit is to be
exercised.
      6.   Description of the activity to be carried on under the license or
permit.
      7.   Such information as required by this code or other ordinance or by
the city council showing the applicant to be entitled to the license or permit
and that he/she is a proper person and the place a proper place for exercise
thereof.
      8.   Such information as required by this code or other ordinance as may
be necessary for determination of the amount of the license or permit fee.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided, an applicant for license or permit shall
first pay the amount of the license or permit fee to the finance officer,
taking his/her receipt therefor, showing the kind of license or permit for
which the fee was paid and the amount paid. Such receipt shall be presented to
the licensing or permitting officer if other than the finance officer to whom
application for the license or permit is made. (Ord. 2444, 7-15-2013)
4-1-3: ISSUANCE; CONDITIONS OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Issuance By Finance Officer: Except as otherwise provided, all licenses
and permits shall be issued by the finance officer. If the issuance of the
license or permit is approved by a licensing and permitting authority other
than the finance officer the applicant shall provide proof of compliance with
all requirements for issuance of the license or permit, including conforming to
the zoning regulations of the city, to the issuing authority. If the use for
which a license or permit is applied for is a nonconforming use under the
zoning regulations, no license or permit shall be issued. Unless otherwise
provided, all licenses and permits shall be signed by the finance officer or
deputy finance officer and shall have affixed thereto the official seal of the
city.
   B.   Approval Of License Or Permit By The City Council: If the license or
permit is subject to approval by the city council the approval or disapproval
shall be entitled in the official minutes of the city council. No document
constituting the license or permit shall be issued.
   C.   Bond, Insurance Or Deposit: Any bond, liability insurance or deposit
required shall be subject to the approval of the city council, and in case the
city council deems the security inadequate, it may require new or additional
security.
   D.   Term Of License Or Permit: Unless otherwise provided, all licenses and
permits shall take effect when issued and shall terminate on December 31 in the
year for which issued. Except as otherwise provided, the fee charged for the
license or permit shall be paid on the basis of a full year.
   E.   License Or Permit To Be Exhibited: Every person to whom a license or
permit is issued by the city shall exhibit the license or permit if requested
by a law enforcement officer or any person who may deal with the license or
permit when reasonably requested to do so.
   F.   Change Of Business Name: If a licensee or permittee changes the name or
form of organization under which he/she does business, the license or permit
may be so changed without payment of an additional fee, except as otherwise
provided by law. (Ord. 2444, 7-15-2013)
4-1-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter as to licensing and permitting certain
activities shall not apply to those conducted as a part of the established Corn
Palace Week Festival. (Ord. 2444, 7-15-2013)
4-1-5: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
The city council shall have power to cancel and withdraw any license or permit
issued by the city for failure of the licensee or permittee to comply with any
ordinance or regulation of the city or state law respecting such license or
permit or the manner of exercise thereof or for other good cause after hearing
upon notice to the licensee or permittee.
Upon conviction of a violation of any provision of this code or other ordinance
of the city by a licensee or permittee relating to the exercise of such license
or permit, the court, in addition to other penalties imposed, may enter its
judgment canceling such license or permit. (Ord. 2444, 7-15-2013)
4-1-6: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of a city official to issue a license or
permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall have the right to
appeal the official's decision to the city council. Such appeal shall be
requested by submitting a written request to the city finance officer within
five (5) days of the action from which the appeal is taken. The city council
shall consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at
least five (5) days following, at which time the applicant shall be entitled to
present his/her appeal orally or in writing. (Ord. 2444, 7-15-2013)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Number Of On-Sale Malt Beverage Licenses (Rep. by Ord. O2018-04, 4-9-
2018)
4-2-2: On-Sale Beer And Off-Sale Liquor Licenses (Rep. by Ord. O2018-04, 4-9-
2018)
4-2-3: Hours Of Operation
4-2-4: Open Containers
4-2-5: Minors
4-2-6: Video Lottery Machines
4-2-7: Municipal Auditoriums, Public Convention Halls, And Special Event
Alcoholic Beverage Licenses
4-2-8: Full Service Restaurant On-Sale License
4-2-9: Penalty
4-2-1: NUMBER OF ON-SALE MALT BEVERAGE LICENSES:
(Rep. by Ord. O2018-04, 4-9-2018)
4-2-2: ON-SALE BEER AND OFF-SALE LIQUOR LICENSES:
(Rep. by Ord. O2018-04, 4-9-2018)
4-2-3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Securing Of Alcoholic Beverages During Nonlegal Operating Hours:
      1.   Definitions: As used in this subsection the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
    LICENSEE: The holder of any license within the City for the on-sale or off-
sale of any alcoholic beverage, including malt beverages.
   NONLEGAL OPERATING HOURS: The hours of each day and the holidays or other
days during which a licensee is prohibited by State law from selling alcoholic
beverages 1 .
   PREMISES: The location defined under a licensee's license.
      2.   Security Required: Every licensee shall secure all alcoholic
beverages located, stored, or displayed on the licensee's premises during all
nonlegal operating hours. For premises which remain open to the public during
nonlegal operating hours, secure shall mean to place in a separate container or
room or a separately sealed or divided portion of a container or room in such a
manner that unauthorized persons cannot gain access. For premises that are
closed to the public during nonlegal operating hours, secure shall mean to
ensure that all non-staff persons have vacated the premises and lock all
entrance and exit points in a manner which prohibits non-staff persons from
entering the premises. (Ord. O2018-04, 4-9-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 35-4-81.
4-2-4: OPEN CONTAINERS:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   Unless explicitly exempt from this section, no alcoholic beverage
shall be sold, served for consumption, consumed, or possessed unless the seal
of the original package remains unbroken upon:
         a.   Any public street, highway, alley, sidewalk, boulevard, or other
location within public right of way; or
         b.   Any parking lot to which the public has access or which is open
or available to the public within the city; or
         c.   Any other place, whether in or out of a building, commonly and
customarily open to or used by the general public.
      2.   Consumption of alcoholic beverages in the following areas shall be
exempt from the restrictions of Section 4-2-4(A):
         a.   The area covered by a valid on-sale alcoholic beverage license,
including special event on-sale alcoholic beverage licenses.
         b.   The area approved by the city council pursuant to an application
for a consumption permit and, in such an event, the city council will approve
the container that will be exempt for the purposes of the consumption permit.
         c.   The immediate area where alcoholic beverage product sampling is
lawfully conducted pursuant to state law.
         d.   A city owned facility pursuant to a valid rental agreement
allowing the consumption of alcoholic beverages.
         e.   Upon the waters or ice of Lake Mitchell.
         f.   At any city park land abutting the shoreline of Lake Mitchell.
         g.   At the Soccer Complex, Mitchell Activities Center, and Cadwell
Sports Complex, and the parking lots adjacent thereto. However, the Park and
Recreation Board may adopt additional rules for these locations for the purpose
of preventing the consumption of alcoholic beverages at or in connection with
organized youth sporting activities. A violation of such Park and Recreation
Board rule shall be deemed a violation of this section.
         h.   At any other city park land authorized for consumption by the
Park and Recreation Board.
         i.   At the Lakeview Golf Course. However, the Golf and Cemetery Board
may adopt additional rules for the purpose of preventing the consumption of
alcoholic beverages at or in connection with organized youth sporting
activities. A violation of such Golf and Cemetery Board rule shall be deemed a
violation of this section.
      3.   No person shall use a glass alcoholic beverage container while
consuming an alcoholic beverage at any location identified in Section 4-2-4(A)
(1). However, the area covered by a valid on-sale alcoholic beverage license,
including special event on-sale alcoholic beverage licenses, shall be exempt
from this prohibition on the use of glass containers.
   B.    Liquor Establishments: No licensee holding any alcoholic beverage
license of whatever nature shall permit any person to leave the premises for
which said license is issued with any container on which the tap or seal has
been broken and which contains any amount of an alcoholic beverage, except as
authorized by the city council via consumption permit pursuant to South Dakota
Codified Laws 35-1-5.3 and in connection with special events the city council
will approve the container that will be used for the special event.
   C.   Licensee Sealed Alcoholic Beverages: An alcoholic beverage licensee may
allow a person to leave the licensed premises with an alcoholic beverage that
is not factory sealed so long as the licensee complies with the provisions of
this section and does not otherwise violate state law. A licensee may allow a
person to leave the licensed premises with an alcoholic beverage for the
purposes of bulk sales, off-premises consumption of a partially consumed
alcoholic beverage purchased with a meal, or sale of an alcoholic beverage in
conjunction with a to-go food order. If allowing a person to leave the licensed
premises with an alcoholic beverage, the licensee shall seal the alcoholic
beverage container in a manner which identifies the licensed premises sealing
the beverage and provides clear visual evidence that the alcoholic beverage
container has been unsealed. The seal shall also prevent any of the contents of
the alcoholic beverage container from being consumed without breaking the seal.
(Ord. 2360, 4-18-2011; amd. Ord. O2022-11, 7-5-2022)
4-2-5: MINORS 1 :
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
    LICENSEE: The holder of any license within the City of Mitchell for the
sale, whether on-sale, off-sale or both, of any alcoholic beverage, including
malt beverages.
   TAVERN OR BAR: Any place of business licensed for the sale of any alcoholic
beverages, including malt beverages, which actually derives more than fifty
percent (50%) of its gross proceeds from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   UNDERAGE PERSON (MINOR): Any person who is below the age determined by State
law for lawful purchase of the alcoholic beverages sold by a licensee at a
particular tavern or bar 2 .
   B.   Underage Persons Prohibited; Exception:
      1.   No licensee who operates a tavern or bar shall suffer or permit any
underage person to enter or remain on the premises of such tavern or bar,
except in the immediate presence of the underage person's parent, legal
guardian or spouse, if the spouse is not an underage person.
      2.   No underage person may enter, attempt to enter or remain on the
premises of a tavern or bar.
      3.   A licensee who operates a tavern or bar may employ an underage
person if such employment complies with South Dakota Codified Law 35-4-79.4.
Such underage person may only be present on the licensee’s premises for work
purposes.
   C.   Signs Posted: Any licensee who operates a tavern or bar shall
conspicuously post a sign in a place and in a manner so as to be readily
visible to and easily read by any person entering the tavern or bar stating
that no persons under the lawful age for that tavern or bar may enter and
stating the applicable age under the provisions of this section and applicable
State law 3 . (Ord. 1551, 6-1-1987; amd. Ord. O2022-11, 7-5-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6, chapter 4 of this Code.
2 2. SDCL § 35-4-79.
3 2.    SDCL § 35-4-79.
4-2-6: VIDEO LOTTERY MACHINES:
Every person, including corporations or other organizations, within the City,
who is licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages, on-sale, pursuant to South
Dakota Codified Laws 35-4-2 (4), (6), (11), (13) or (16), and who is issued a
video lottery establishment license pursuant to South Dakota Codified Laws 42-
7A-41, shall pay to the City for the privilege of locating video lottery
machines on the licensed premises, an annual additional license fee (in
addition to the fees imposed under South Dakota Codified Laws 35-4-2 and 42-7A-
41) as established from time to time by resolution of the City Council for each
video lottery machine placed or to be placed in or upon the licensed premises
at any time during the term of the license. The total additional license fee
paid shall represent the maximum number of video lottery machines which may be
placed in or upon the licensed premises at any one time during the term of the
license. Such fees shall be payable to the Finance Office at the same time and
in the same manner as license fees paid pursuant to South Dakota Codified Laws
35-4-2, provided that the fees provided for in this section shall not be
imposed on more than one license per location. (Ord. 1729, 11-16-1992)
   A.   Wine licenses issued with video lottery are limited to those licenses
that were issued as of April 1, 2007, or were applied for on or before April 1,
2007; otherwise no wine licenses will be issued with video lottery. Any
previously issued wine license that did not request its issuance with video
lottery will not be authorized to request video lottery with said license.
(Ord. 2239, 6-4-2007)
   B.   On-off sale malt beverage (RB) licenses issued with video lottery are
limited to those licenses that were issued as of April 1, 2018, or were applied
for on or before April 1, 2018; otherwise no on-off sale malt beverage (RB)
licenses will be issued with video lottery. Any previously issued on-off sale
malt beverage (RB) license that did not request its issuance with video lottery
will not be authorized to request video lottery with said license. (Ord. O2018-
04, 4-9-2018)
4-2-7: MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUMS, PUBLIC CONVENTION HALLS, AND SPECIAL EVENT
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSES:
   A.   Municipal Auditorium And Public Convention Hall On-Sale Licenses: Any
Municipal auditorium or public convention hall, through its director or
operator, may apply for an on-sale liquor license pursuant to South Dakota
Codified Laws 35-4-14.1 and, if granted, may use and renew the on-sale liquor
license as provided by law.
   B.   Special Event Alcoholic Beverage Licenses: Special event alcoholic
beverage licenses, under South Dakota Codified Laws 35-4-124, may be issued by
the City Council in conjunction with special events held within the City of
Mitchell. Any license issued pursuant to this section may be issued for a
period of time established by the City Council, not to exceed fifteen (15)
consecutive days. The license shall be applied for and issued in the same
manner as other alcohol licenses issued by the City of Mitchell, except as
further provided in this section.
      1.   Special Application Requirements: Any application for a special
event alcoholic beverage license shall include the class of special alcoholic
beverage license applied for and contain a map of the intended location for use
of the special event alcoholic beverage license.
      2.   Effect Of Boundaries For Licenses: The sale of alcoholic beverages
pursuant to a special event alcoholic beverage license shall not take place
beyond the boundaries shown on the map. Alcoholic beverages sold pursuant to an
off-sale special event alcoholic beverage license shall not be consumed at the
location of the sale. Consumption of alcoholic beverages sold pursuant to an
on-sale special event alcoholic beverage license may occur within the same
boundaries set for the sale of alcoholic beverages and may only occur outside
of those boundaries in conjunction with a consumption permit issued by the City
Council pursuant to subsection
4-2-4B1 of this chapter and South Dakota Codified Laws 35-1-5.5.
      3.   Hours Of Effect: The City Council, when granting a special event
alcoholic beverage license, shall set the hours for which the special event
alcoholic beverage license shall be effective with such hours never to exceed
those for an on-sale alcoholic beverage dealer.
      4.   Fees Set By City Council: The fees for each special event alcoholic
beverage license shall be set by the City Council by resolution.
      5.   Hearing Requirement: A public hearing shall be required for special
event alcoholic beverage licenses in the same manner as for other alcohol
licenses. However, no public hearing shall be required for an event held on
publicly owned property by an applicant for a special event alcoholic beverage
license who already holds the corresponding class of permanent alcohol license
issued by the City of Mitchell.
      6.   Limits On Issuance: No person may be issued more than two hundred
(200) special event alcoholic beverage licenses within any calendar year. For
calculation purposes, any combination of licenses issued to the same person, at
the same place, for the same time, and for the same special event, shall be
counted only as one license for purposes of the two hundred (200) license
limit.
   C.   Types Of Special Event Alcoholic Beverage Licenses And Classes Of
Eligibility: The following types of special event alcoholic beverage licenses
are available to the corresponding classes of applicants for use in conjunction
with a special event in the City of Mitchell:
      1.   Special Malt Beverage Retailer's License: Available to any civic,
charitable, educational, fraternal, or veterans' organization or any licensee
licensed pursuant to South Dakota Codified Laws 35-4-2(4), (6), or (16). (Ord.
2533, 4-4-2016)
      2.   Special On-Sale Wine Retailer's License: Available to any civic,
charitable, educational, fraternal, or veterans' organization or any licensee
licensed pursuant to South Dakota Codified Laws 35-4-2(4), (6), or (12) or any
farm winery license. (Ord. O2018-04, 4-9-2018)
      3.   Special On-Sale License: Available to any civic, charitable,
educational, fraternal, or veterans' organization or any licensee licensed
pursuant to South Dakota Codified Laws 35-4-2(4) or (6).
      4.   Special Off-Sale Package Wine Dealer's License: Special off- sale
package wine dealer's licenses are available in the following situations: (Ord.
2533, 4-4-2016)
         a.   Any civic, charitable, educational, fraternal, or veterans'
organization or any licensee licensed pursuant to South Dakota Codified Laws
35-4-2(3), (5), or (12), or any farm winery license. A special off-sale package
wine dealer's licensee may only sell wine manufactured by a farm winery
license; or (Ord. O2018-04, 4-9-2018)
         b.   Any civic, charitable, educational, fraternal, or veterans'
organization in conjunction with a special event conducted pursuant to
subsection C7 of this section.
      5.   Special Off-Sale Package Malt Beverage Dealer's License: Available
to any civic, charitable, educational, fraternal, or veterans' organization in
conjunction with a special event, conducted pursuant to subsection C7 of this
section.
      6.   Special Off-Sale Package Dealer's License: Available to any civic,
charitable, educational, fraternal, or veterans' organization in conjunction
with a special event, conducted pursuant to subsection C7 of this section.
      7.   Special Off-Sale Restrictions: A civic, charitable, educational,
fraternal, or veterans' organization holding a special event license pursuant
to subsections C4b, C5, and C6 of this section shall only sell wine, malt
beverages, or alcoholic beverages, as applicable to the license, that have been
donated by members of the public. Any donated alcoholic beverage must have been
purchased by the donor from a licensed South Dakota retailer. (Ord. 2533, 4-4-
2016)
4-2-8: FULL SERVICE RESTAURANT ON-SALE LICENSE:
The City may issue additional on-sale licenses for full service restaurants
pursuant to South Dakota Codified Laws 35-4-110 et seq.
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BAR: Any permanently installed counter within the restaurant area from which
alcoholic beverages are regularly served to customers by a person who is
tending bar or drawing or mixing alcoholic beverages.
   FULL SERVICE RESTAURANT: Any restaurant at which a waiter or waitress
delivers food and drink offered from a printed food menu to patrons at tables,
booths, or the bar. Any restaurant that only serves fry orders or foodstuffs
such as sandwiches, hamburgers, or salads is not a full service restaurant.
   RESTAURANT: Any area in a building maintained, advertised, and held out to
the public as a place where individually priced meals are prepared and served
primarily for consumption in such area and where not more than forty percent
(40%) of the gross revenue of the restaurant is derived from the sale of
alcohol or alcoholic beverages. The restaurant shall have a dining room or
rooms, a kitchen, and the number and kinds of employees necessary for the
preparing, cooking, and serving of meals.
   B.   License Application Requirements; Documentation: An applicant for a
full service restaurant on-sale license shall provide sufficient documentation
to the City with an application form provided by the Municipality to prove that
the primary source of revenue from the operation of the restaurant will be
derived from the sale of prepared food and nonalcoholic beverages and not from
the sale of alcoholic beverages. The renewal of a full service restaurant on-
sale license is conditioned upon the applicant satisfying all State
requirements for renewal. The supporting documentation concerning the primary
source of revenue submitted pursuant to this section is confidential.
   C.   Advertising Restriction: A restaurant that has a full service
restaurant on-sale license may only be advertised or held out to the public as
primarily a food eating establishment.
   D.   Annual Reports: The full service restaurant on-sale licensee shall
submit an annual report and supporting documentation to the City on forms
provided by the City of the annual sales of the full service restaurant, which
includes an oath verifying the validity of the information provided in the
report. The report and the supporting documentation submitted pursuant to this
section are confidential. The report shall contain the annual gross revenues of
the licensee for the following categories:
      1.   Food and nonalcoholic beverage sales; and
      2.   Alcoholic beverages sales.
   E.   License Renewals: When renewing a full service restaurant on- sale
license, the City shall condition the license renewal upon receiving
documentation that not more than forty percent (40%) of gross sales from the
preceding twelve (12) months operation of the full service restaurant is
derived from the sale of alcohol or alcoholic beverages.
   F.   Only Retail, On-Sale Service Permitted: A full service restaurant on-
sale licensee may only serve alcoholic beverages for on premises consumption in
the bar and dining room area of the restaurant.
   G.   Smoking Prohibited: No licensee that has a full service restaurant on-
sale license may allow smoking on the licensed premises.
   H.   Full Service Restaurant License Fees:
      1.   The license fee charged for full service restaurant on-sale licenses
shall be established by resolution of the City at or above the current fair
market value of the license pursuant to South Dakota Codified Laws 35-4-117.
      2.   The license fee shall be initially established by resolution within
ninety (90) days of the initial adoption of this section. Subsequent changes in
the license fee shall not be made for a period of ten (10) years from the
effective date of this section unless a population growth that is reported by
the Federal decennial census requires an increase in the fee.
   I.   Registry Of Full Service Restaurant On-Sale Licensees: The City will
maintain a registry of each on-sale license that is being offered for sale. The
burden of registering with the City a license being offered for sale rests on
the licensee. The City will provide a copy of the registry to anyone who
requests a new full service restaurant on-sale license. Prior to the issuance
of a new license, the applicant shall submit an affidavit showing that there is
no on-sale license on the registry or that the applicant is unable to purchase
the on-sale license at fair market value and on terms satisfactory to both the
potential buyer and seller.
   J.   Issuance Of New Full Service Restaurant Licenses Restricted: The City
may only issue a new license pursuant to this section if no on-sale license is
on the registry or a person desiring to purchase an on-sale license listed on
the registry provides documentation showing that the person is unable to
purchase the on-sale license at the price established in subsection H of this
section and on terms satisfactory to both the potential buyer and seller. The
price of any on-sale license registered as for sale with the City shall be sold
at the current fair market price set by the City pursuant to a resolution
adopted in accordance with subsection I of this section.
   K.   Provision Of Pricing Information: Each licensee who owns an on-sale
license as of January 1, 2008, and purchased or had the license transferred to
such licensee at any time between January 1, 2003, and January 1, 2008, shall
provide to the Finance Officer the information required by State law within
thirty (30) days of request by the Finance Officer of the City of Mitchell.
(Ord. 2387, 12-19-2011)
4-2-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished
as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2005 Code; amd. Ord. 2387, 12-19-2011)
ARTICLE A. OUTDOOR DINING AREAS
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Sale And Consumption Of Alcoholic Wine Beverages On Sidewalk
4-2A-1: SALE AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC WINE BEVERAGES ON SIDEWALK:
   A.   Allowed Subject To Provisions: The sale and consumption of alcoholic
wine beverages is authorized on sidewalks and other public right of way
abutting licensed premises in the central business district of the city of
Mitchell in outdoor dining areas, subject to the provisions hereinafter set
forth.
   B.   Definitions:
    OUTDOOR DINING AREA: An area on a public sidewalk in front of and adjacent
to a business sometimes referred to as a sidewalk cafe, where food is sold,
served or consumed.
   PERMIT (And Words Derivative Thereof): An authorization granted by the city
governing body for the sale of alcoholic wine beverages upon an outdoor dining
area, subject to such limitations as the governing body shall impose.
   SIDEWALK: All that area legally open to the public use as a public right of
way between the curb line and the public right of way boundary along the
abutting property.
   C.   Application Procedures:
      1.   A permit under this section may be granted for service of alcoholic
wine beverages only.
      2.   Issuance of a permit under this section shall be limited to areas
within the city zoned as central business district only.
      3.   No permit under this section shall be granted for use during the
period of time known in the city of Mitchell as "Corn Palace week".
      4.   An application for a permit to sell, serve and consume alcoholic
wine beverage in an outdoor dining area shall be made on such forms as
prescribed by the city, by the owner whose business is adjacent to the sidewalk
upon which the alcoholic wine beverages are requested to be sold, served or
consumed.
      5.   Each permit shall terminate on December 31 of each year and will be
personal to the permittee only and is not transferable in any manner.
      6.   The application will state that the request is being made for the
sale, service and consumption of alcoholic wine beverages in the outdoor dining
area and applicant will acknowledge that the permit is subject to all terms of
South Dakota Codified Laws 35-4-77.1.
      7.   The fee for said application will be established from time to time
by resolution of the governing body of the city, and shall be paid to the city
finance office prior to exercise of rights granted in a permit.
      8.   The hours of operation requested for the sale, service and
consumption of alcoholic wine beverages for the outdoor dining area shall be
stated in the application.
      9.   A site plan shall be submitted with the application noting the
general area of where outdoor furniture will be located upon the public right
of way.
      10.   The governing body of the city in considering any application for a
permit shall consider the impact of each proposed permit upon public property,
public investments, public rights of access and way, and to business owners,
property owners and residents. The governing body of the city reserves the
right as steward of public right of way, to limit, prohibit or place conditions
on nonpublic uses of the public right of way.
      11.   The applicant requesting the permit by making such request and
exercising rights which are granted in a permit, assumes all liability
associated with the sidewalk cafe activities and shall hold the city of
Mitchell "harmless" in matters associated with the operation of said cafe.
   D.   Insurance: Prior to exercise of any right granted in respect to a
permit, the owner of the applicable business shall furnish and maintain in
effect at all times the permit remains issued, a policy of insurance protecting
the applicant and the city from all claims for damage to property or bodily
injury, including death, which may arise from operations under the permit in
the outdoor dining area. The insurance policy shall list or endorse the city of
Mitchell as additional insured and carry minimum liability limits of at least
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence. The endorsement shall
provide that the policy shall not be terminated or canceled prior to the
termination of the outdoor dining area use without thirty (30) days' written
notice to the city.
   E.   Regulations:
      1.   The preparation of food upon the sidewalk is prohibited excepting
cases where garnishments are added to food. In respect to events where a city
street or sidewalk has been closed in conjunction with the event, food
preparation upon the sidewalk may be allowed if permitted pursuant to the
application process for the event.
      2.   No fixtures or devices on which food or beverages are sold or
consumed shall be attached to the sidewalk or other public area.
      3.   In no case will outdoor dining or sales, service or consumption of
alcoholic wine beverage occur upon public right of way other than that which is
adjacent to the building or structure from which the business providing the
outdoor food and beverage service operates as its permanent place of business,
unless excepted by the governing body in a permit.
      4.   Furniture and other personal property shall not block regulatory
signs, crosswalks or intersections; shall be compliant with all provisions of
this code; and shall be sufficiently lit during times of low light in order to
provide for safe pedestrian passage alongside the outdoor dining area.
Furniture and personal property upon the public right of way shall not have
sharp edges, protrusions or other features which may be hazardous to the
public.
      5.   All equipment used for food and alcoholic wine beverage sales,
service or consumption shall be removed from public right of way during hours
the applicable business is not in operation.
      6.   The business owner or operator which conducts outdoor food or
alcoholic wine beverage sales, service and consumption shall keep the outdoor
service area clean of garbage, trash, paper, cups, cans or litter.
      7.   Outdoor food and alcoholic wine beverage sales, service and
consumption upon any public right of way shall be located so that such sales,
service and consumption does not impede, endanger or interfere with pedestrian
traffic. Furniture and other personal property shall be located so that they do
not impede, endanger or interfere with pedestrian traffic. A clear passage
space of a minimum of six feet (6') of passage shall be allowed for pedestrian
traffic.
      8.   Signs used to advertise the outdoor food or alcoholic wine beverage
sales, service and consumption, and the outdoor dining area shall meet all
applicable sign regulations and be secured so that they are not dislodged
during windy or stormy weather.
      9.   All outdoor dining areas, if within any type of enclosure or fence,
must have at least one opening for ingress and egress directly to the outside.
      10.   The permit may be revoked for failure to maintain the standards
required for the permit. A notice of intent to revoke the permit shall be given
in writing ten (10) days prior to actual revocation and shall specify the area
or areas of continued failure to meet requirements and maintain conditions the
city may have imposed. If, during that period, proof of compliance is made by
the holder of the permit, the permit shall be continued in force.
      11.   The permit may be temporarily suspended by the public works
director if the public interest requires use of the right of way for a public
event, construction, repair or any other purpose. (Ord. 2437, 6-3-2013)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Licenses Required
4-3-2: Bond Requirements
4-3-3: Exemptions
4-3-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Open Air Shows: No person shall conduct, operate or exhibit any moving
picture show, theatrical performance or other exhibition of skill or amusement,
circuses, menageries, wild west shows or carnivals, in any tent or on any
vacant lot or on any public grounds and not in a building or enclosure built in
conformity with this code or other ordinances for such purpose, without a
license. The license fee shall be as established from time to time by
resolution of the city council. (1984 Code § 20-11; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Theaters: No person shall conduct or operate any opera house, theater
or moving picture show without securing a license therefor. The license fee
shall be as established from time to time by resolution of the city council.
(2005 Code)
4-3-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Before any license shall be issued to any circus or carnival, such applicant
shall deposit with the finance officer a cash bond in the sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) conditioned upon the licensee leaving all public grounds,
ways or places used or occupied by such licensee in a clean, sanitary and
undamaged condition. Otherwise, such sum shall be forfeited to the city. (1984
Code § 20-13; amd. 2005 Code)
4-3-3: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any lecture or exhibition for a purely literary
or scientific character nor to any concert or entertainment given for charity
or for public benefit. (1984 Code § 20-14)
CHAPTER 4
RIDE SERVICE COMPANIES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Ride Service Company License Requirements
4-4-4: Financial Responsibility
4-4-5: Notification To Chief Of Police
4-4-6: Rate Regulation And Receipts
4-4-7: Vehicle Requirements
4-4-8: Out Of Town VFH Companies And TNC Driver Vehicles
4-4-9: Revocation Of License
4-4-10: Dollar Amounts To Be Set By Resolution
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish rules and regulations for ride
service companies which promote and protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the general public. (Ord. O2019-21, 10-7-2019)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
                                       Any online-enabled application,
                                       software, website, or system offered or
DIGITAL NETWORK:                       utilized by a TNC that enables the
                                       provision of ride services with a TNC
                                       driver.
PASSENGER:                             A person receiving ride services from a
                                       ride service company.
RIDE SERVICE COMPANY:                  A TNC or VFH company.
RIDE SERVICE COMPANY LICENSE or        A license permitting a TNC or VFH to
LICENSE:                               engage in providing or facilitate the
                                       provision of ride services.
                                       Use of a vehicle to convey one (1) or
                                       more passengers along a route or from
                                       point to point for compensation of any
RIDE SERVICES:                         nature, including donations at the time
                                       of service. Ride services includes such
                                       rides as would be deemed "prearranged
                                       rides" as defined by state law.
                                       A corporation, partnership, sole
                                       proprietorship, or other entity that
                                       uses a digital network to connect one
                                       (1) or more passengers to a
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY or TNC: transportation network company driver
                                       who provides ride services and that does
                                       not control, direct, or manage the TNC
                                       driver vehicle or TNC drivers that
                                       connect to its digital network, except
                                       where agreed to by written contract.
                                       A person who receives connections to
                                       potential passengers and related
                                       services from a TNC in exchange for
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY DRIVER  payment of a fee to the TNC and who uses
or TNC DRIVER:                         a TNC driver vehicle to provide ride
                                       services to passengers upon connection
                                       through a digital network controlled by
                                       a TNC in return for compensation or
                                       payment of a fee.
                                       A vehicle that is used by a TNC driver
                                       to provide ride services through a TNC's
                                       digital network. Such vehicle must be
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY DRIVER  owned, leased, or otherwise authorized
VEHICLE or TNC DRIVER VEHICLE:         for use by the TNC driver. A TNC driver
                                       vehicle is only deemed to have such
                                       status while the TNC driver is logged in
                                       to provide ride services through a TNC.
                                       Any means of ground based conveyance,
                                       motorized or non-motorized, which may
                                       carry one (1) or more passengers
VEHICLE:                               including, but not limited to, taxis,
                                       buses, limousines, wheelchair
                                       transports, rickshaws, bicycles, and
                                       carriages.
                                       Any vehicle engaged in the provision of
                                       ride services. This term does not
                                       include a TNC driver vehicle or any
                                       vehicle operated by a government entity
                                       who, intentionally or incidentally,
                                       provides ride services. This term does
                                       not include a motorized vehicle capable
                                       of carrying eight (8) or more passengers
                                       but which is operated for the purpose
VEHICLE FOR HIRE or VFH:               of: (i) providing sightseeing tours
                                       where Mitchell attractions comprise less
                                       than twenty-five percent (25%) of stops
                                       along a set route; (ii) providing long
                                       distance transportation primarily
                                       outside of Mitchell for which Mitchell
                                       has one (1) designated pick-up and drop-
                                       off point; or (iii) transporting
                                       students to and from school or school
                                       affiliated events.
VEHICLE FOR HIRE DRIVER or VFH DRIVER: A person who physically operates a VFH.
                                       A person or entity engaged in the
VEHICLE FOR HIRE COMPANY or VFH        business of providing ride services in a
COMPANY:                               manner that does not make such person or
                                       entity a TNC. (Ord. 1667, 7-16-1990;
                                       amd. Ord. O2019-21, 10-7-2019)
 
4-4-3: RIDE SERVICE COMPANY LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No ride service company may engage in providing or
facilitate the provision of ride services unless such ride service company
applies for, obtains, and maintains a ride service company license pursuant to
this chapter.
   B.   Application For License: A ride service company seeking a license must
submit a signed application, in writing, to the city finance office. Such
application must include:
      1.   Business name and address of the applicant.
      2.   Name, address, phone number, and email of manager.
      3.   Name, address, phone number, and email of owner, if an individual.
      4.   Previous experience in providing ride services, if the ride service
company has not been licensed in the city before.
      5.   A general statement of reasons supporting the granting of the
application, including substantiation of need in the community for ride
services to be provided by the applicant.
      6.   Proof of financial responsibility in the amounts and manner
established in this chapter below.
      7.   Payment of the applicable license fee.
   C.   Action By City Council:
      1.   The city council will be presented with such application at the next
available city council meeting, provided that such application must be
submitted in advance of the general agenda item submission deadline established
by the finance office.
      2.   The city council may approve or deny an application in full or on
condition. Such action of the city council must take place within thirty (30)
days after the application’s first presentment to the city council.
      3.   If approved, the mayor and finance officer will endorse the
application and notify the applicant of approval by close of business on the
next business day following the city council’s approval.
      4.   If denied, the council must state the basis on which the application
was denied, which may include, but is not limited to: no public need for the
proposed service; undue risk to public safety; criminal history of an owner,
manager, or driver; or any other criteria which would make the approval of such
application inadvisable or unnecessary.
   D.   License Fee And Term: The city council will set the fee for a license
from time to time by resolution and may implement various tiers for such fee
based on the number of drivers and/or type of ride service company. Each
license approved is effective from January 1 through December 31, regardless of
the time of year such license is approved. Each license expires at 11:59:59
P.M. on December 31 unless, prior to the expiration, the city council has
approved, or conditionally approved, the renewal of such license for the
following calendar year. (Ord. 2359, 4-4-2011; amd. Ord. 2522, 9-8-2015; Ord.
O2019-21, 10-7-2019)
4-4-4: FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Before any license is granted or renewed under this subchapter, the
applicant must file with the city finance officer certificates or policies of
insurance issued by a responsible insurer in the amounts and for the purposes
established below. The applicant must list the city as an additional insured on
each policy.
   B.   A VFH company must maintain a commercial general liability policy, or
equivalent, with a limit of not less than three hundred thousand ($300,000.00)
for each occurrence. If such insurance contains a general aggregate limit, it
must be no less than two (2) times the occurrence limit.
   C.   A TNC must maintain automobile insurance coverage in amounts equal to
or exceeding those provided by SDCL chapter 32-40. The TNC and TNC's policy
must also comply with all other provisions applicable to insurance provided by
SDCL chapter 32-40.
   D.   A VFH company must maintain automobile insurance coverage in amounts
equal to or exceeding those applicable to a TNC under SDCL section 32-40-9.
   E.   The cancellation or other termination of any required insurance policy
automatically revokes and/or terminates all licenses issued for the business,
independent contractors, and the vehicles covered by such insurance policy,
unless a new policy complying with the requirements of this chapter goes into
effect prior to the expiration of the canceled or terminated policy.
   F.   By filing an application for a license, the applicant agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officers, agents, and employees from
and against any and all actions, suits, damages, liability, or other
proceedings that may arise out of applicant's provision of ride services. This
section does not require an applicant to be responsible for or to defend
against claims or damages arising solely from errors or omissions of the city,
its officers, agents, or employees. (Ord. O2019-21, 10-7-2019; amd. Ord. O2019-
28, 12-16-2019)
4-4-5: NOTIFICATION TO CHIEF OF POLICE:
The finance officer must immediately notify the chief of police, or the chief
of police’s designated representative, of the filing of any application for a
license under this chapter. (Ord. 2382, 11-22-2011; amd. Ord. O2019-21, 10-7-
2019; Ord. O2020-14, 12-7-2020)
4-4-6: RATE REGULATION AND RECEIPTS:
   A.   Rates Established: The city council may, by resolution, establish such
maximum ride service rates for the city as the city council deems to be in the
best interests of the citizens of the city. Prior to passing a resolution
establishing or modifying said rates, the city will provide at least ten (10)
days’ written notice to each license holder and provide a period for comments
on the proposed rates during the meeting when the resolution is considered.
   B.   Rates Posted: Every TNC vehicle or VFH must conspicuously place in each
vehicle providing ride services a schedule of rates charged to the public. For
a TNC vehicle, the rate posting requirement of this subsection is met if the
TNC’s application used by the passenger to request the ride provides the
estimated rate for the initially requested ride.
   C.   If requested by a passenger at the time of service, a ride service
company shall provide a receipt to the passenger listing, at a minimum, the
following information: the origin and destination of the trip; the total time
and distance of the trip; the total fare paid; and the driver’s first name.
Such receipt may be hand delivered at time of service or, within a reasonable
period of time thereafter, may be mailed, sent electronically, or provided via
any other delivery method agreed upon by the passenger and ride service
company. (Ord. 1667, 7-16-1990; amd. Ord. O2019-21, 10-7-2019)
4-4-7: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration And Maintenance: Each VFH operated within the city mut be
registered with the city finance office. Each VFH and TNC driver vehicle
operated within the city must be maintained continuously in safe operating
condition for the transportation of passengers. Such maintenance duties
include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Performance of industry standard maintenance that may generally
apply;
      2.   Cleaning sufficient to ensure a neat, tidy, and hospitable
environment for passengers;
      3.   Repair of all mechanical damage/defects relating to operational
safety;
      4.   Repair of any significant cosmetic damage/deterioration;
      5.   Complying with all state law provisions applicable to such vehicle.
   B.   Inspection For Cause: The chief of police, or the chief of police’s
designated representative, may order any VFH or TNC driver vehicle to be
inspected upon receipt of information establishing probable cause of a
violation of subsection A of this section. Notice, verbal or written, will be
provided to the VFH company or TNC driver stating the grounds for violation and
providing a time period, not exceeding forty-eight (48) hours, in which the
subject vehicle must be brought to the police department for inspection. The
police department will provide an inspection report indicating passage or
failure of the inspection.
   C.   Reporting Of Complaints: While providing ride services, each VFH
company, in each VFH, must conspicuously display a statement providing that
complaints about the condition of the vehicle may be filed with the police
department and which states the non-emergency phone number for the police
department. A TNC must clearly and conspicuously provide a contact page,
accessible through the TNC’s digital network support or help function, listing
the non-emergency phone number for the police department and stating that
complaints about a TNC driver vehicle’s condition may be directed to such phone
number.
   D.   Suspension: A TNC driver vehicle or VFH may be suspended from service
if law enforcement personally observes a violation of the maintenance standards
established by this section, an inspection is failed, or an inspection is not
completed within the given time period. The police department will provide
written notice to the VFH company or TNC of a suspension. A suspended vehicle
may not return to service until after passing inspection. (Ord. O2017-04, 5-1-
2017; amd. Ord. O2019-21, 10-7-2019; Ord. O2020-14, 12-7-2020))
4-4-8: OUT OF TOWN VFH COMPANIES AND TNC DRIVER VEHICLES:
   A.   VFH Company Exemption: A VFH company primarily engaged in business
outside of the city is exempt from the provisions of this chapter if the VFH
company:
      1.   Is subject to similar regulations in another jurisdiction;
      2.   Conducts business within the city less than ten (10) days per
calendar year;
      3.   Provides to the finance officer, prior to providing ride services in
the city, a notarized statement of compliance with such jurisdiction's
regulations along with a copy of the applicable regulations; and
      4.   Notifies the police department prior to providing ride services on
each day ride services will be provided.
   B.   Exemption Non-compliance:
      1.   No VFH company primarily engaged in business outside of the city may
provide ride services in the city without meeting the applicable exemption
criteria.
      2.   The police department will provide written notice to a VFH company
of a violation of this section. A ticket or written warning issued to the VFH
driver may serve as such written notice. However, when written notice is
provided to a VFH driver, the police department will also provide a copy of
such written notice to the VFH company.
      3.   In addition to prosecution for violating this section, a VFH company
in violation of this section must not provide ride services in the city for
fourteen (14) days.
      4.   Upon expiration of the fourteen (14) days, the VFH company may only
resume the provision of ride services if the applicable exemption criteria are
satisfied or if a license has been acquired. (Ord. O2019-21, 10-7-2019)
4-4-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Revocation By Mayor: Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be
revoked or canceled at any time by the mayor. Any revocation of a license by
the mayor may be appealed to the city council. The city council will hear the
appeal at its next available meeting, determined in the same manner as the
submittal of a new application, unless the appealing party requests a later
date. After hearing the appeal, the city council may override the mayor's
revocation of a license by a majority vote of members present.
   B.   Revocation By City Council: The city council may, by majority vote of
members present, revoke or cancel any license issued pursuant to this chapter
after holding a public hearing. Prior to holding the hearing, the license
holder must be provided written notice by mail, email, or other method of
service at least five (5) business days before the hearing date. A revocation
or cancellation by the city council may not be appealed administratively.
   C.   Grounds For Revocation: When a license is revoked or cancelled by the
mayor or city council, the mayor or city council must provide the grounds upon
which the license was revoked or cancelled. (Ord. 1667, 7-16-1990; amd. 2005
Code; Ord. O2019-21, 10-7-2019)
4-4-10: DOLLAR AMOUNTS TO BE SET BY RESOLUTION:
The city council may alter the applicable dollar amounts for insurance
requirements, fees, and fines in relation to this chapter by resolution. (Ord.
O2019-28, 12-16-2019)
CHAPTER 5
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: License Required
4-5-3: Application For License
4-5-4: Issuance; Approval Or Denial
4-5-5: License Fees
4-5-6: Contents Of License; Term
4-5-7: Registration Required
4-5-8: Conditions Of License
4-5-9: Exemptions
4-5-10: Appeal Procedures
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
PEDDLER: A person engaged in the selling of personal property or goods or
personal services to include, but not limited to, spraying, trimming or pruning
of trees and shrubs of all species, painting or repairing buildings or
structures, pest or rodent control or photographic services, by going about
from place to place, highway or street parking or house to house to sell the
same, and who carries with him such property for delivery at the time of sale
or performs such service at the time of contract for such service or
immediately thereafter.
SOLICITOR: A person engaged in going from place to place, highway or street
parking or house to house, to solicit orders for or to offer to sell personal
property for future delivery or performance. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986; amd. 2005
Code)
4-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall deal as a "peddler" or "solicitor", as defined in section
4-5-1 of this chapter, without having procured a license. Any person failing to
obtain a license shall be guilty of a violation and be subject to a fine as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986; amd. 2005 Code)
4-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Before selling or offering for sale or taking any orders or soliciting
any orders for the sale or future delivery of personal property within the
provisions of this chapter, any peddler or solicitor shall first make
application for a license to transact business as a peddler or solicitor, as
the case may be, to the finance officer upon forms to be furnished by said
finance officer.
   B.   The forms required by this section shall require the applicant to
furnish the following information: name of applicant, permanent address of
applicant, whether he transacts business for himself or someone else, if for
someone else, the name and address of the person he represents, the nature and
character of the property to be sold, whether he sells and delivers the
property direct to the purchaser or whether he solicits or takes orders for it
by carrying samples or catalogues, the manner in which he intends to travel and
the character of the vehicle he intends to use in traveling, copies of the
contracts and agreements he intends to make with the customers and such other
information as the finance officer may reasonably require. In addition thereto,
the applicant shall provide proof that he has an active South Dakota sales tax
collection license. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986)
   C.   Any such false statement in the application shall be grounds for denial
of the license and constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986; amd. 2005 Code)
4-5-4: ISSUANCE; APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
   A.   The finance officer, in conjunction with the chief of police or his
representative, shall examine the application and other documents filed, and if
he finds that the proposed plan of peddling or soliciting or the proposed
contracts are fraudulent or of such nature as to subject the purchaser to fraud
or not to ensure delivery of the property as represented, he shall then
disapprove the same and notify the applicant of his disapproval, and it shall
then be a violation for such person to do any such soliciting or peddling or
this city. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   If the finance officer shall find that the proposed plan and documents
are fair and reliable, he shall approve the application and issue to the
applicant the appropriate license upon the applicant furnishing such bond as
may be required. No license shall be authority for operation by more than one
person. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986)
4-5-5: LICENSE FEES:
The fee for peddlers and solicitors license shall be as established from time
to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986; amd. 2005
Code)
4-5-6: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; TERM:
   A.   A peddler's or solicitor's license shall state the manner in which the
peddling or soliciting is carried on and the kind of vehicle to be employed.
   B.   The license shall be a seven (7) day license and shall expire at the
end of each seven (7) day period. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986)
4-5-7: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Any person who sells personal services, as defined in section
4-5-1 of this chapter, shall register with the chief of police or designated
representative and provide the chief of police or designated representative
with his name, permanent address, temporary address and license and
registration number of his motor vehicle, if applicable. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986;
amd. 2005 Code)
4-5-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Copy Of Order To Customer: Every peddler or solicitor shall execute,
sign his own name and deliver to the person giving an order for the present or
future delivery of property an exact copy of such order. No such order shall be
binding on the party giving the same unless all the terms thereof, including
any material representations as made by such peddler or solicitor, shall be set
forth therein.
   B.   Refunds Of Sales: Any peddler or solicitor who shall make any sale
within the city without first being duly licensed by the finance officer, shall
within one year of the date of sale, upon written demand of the purchaser,
refund the full amount of compensation paid by the purchaser and void the total
transaction. The purchaser has an obligation to return any items received to
the peddler or solicitor in the condition they exist at the time of his demand
for refund and upon payment of refund. Any person seeking enforcement of the
terms of this subsection may do so through civil action.
   C.   Uninvited Soliciting: Notwithstanding any other provision contained in
this chapter, the practice of going in and upon private residence property by
solicitors or peddlers who have not previously been requested or invited so to
do by the owner or occupant thereof, for the purpose of soliciting orders for
the sale of personal property or offering to sell personal property for future
delivery or for the purpose of selling or disposing of personal property
thereon, is declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. No person licensed as
a solicitor or peddler under this chapter shall thereby be deemed authorized to
go upon any private residence property except with the proper request,
invitation or consent of the owner or occupant thereof 1 . (Ord. 1541, 11-3-
1986)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 9-34-8.
4-5-9: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Persons soliciting newspaper subscriptions, nor to magazine, book or
periodical subscription solicitations sponsored by any local nonprofit
organization, nor to traveling sales persons doing business exclusively with
retail merchants, manufacturers, jobbers or with public officials, nor to
cooperative corporations or associations peddling or soliciting of orders for
any agriculture product produced or processed within the state. (Ord. 1541, 11-
3-1986; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   The sale, lease or repair of motor vehicles, farm machinery or
implements or mobile homes by a dealer having a fixed permanent location and
place of business in South Dakota where such goods and services are offered on
a continuing basis. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986)
4-5-10: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
Any person aggrieved by any decision of the finance officer under the
provisions of this chapter shall have a right of appeal to the city council.
(Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986)
CHAPTER 6
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: License Required
4-6-3: Application For License; Fee
4-6-4: Issuance Of License
4-6-5: License Renewals
4-6-6: Weekly Reports
4-6-7: Bankrupt Or Fire Sales
4-6-8: Exemptions
4-6-9: Appeal Procedures
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT BUSINESS: A business established for temporary operation
only. A business operated more than six (6) months in one place by the same
person shall be deemed a permanent business, but one commenced and discontinued
within six (6) months thereafter shall prima facie be presumed a temporary
business and its operator a transient merchant.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association and
agents of any of them transacting a temporary business where goods are exposed
for wholesale or retail sale at any place in the city. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986)
4-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a business as a transient
merchant without having in effect a license as required by this chapter. (Ord.
1541, 11-3-1986; amd. 2005 Code)
4-6-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   To obtain license to operate within the city, a transient merchant
shall file, at least fifteen (15) days prior to his first day of operation in
the office of the finance officer, a verified application stating his name and
residence, description and identification of the place in which he proposes to
do business, a description of the goods he intends to handle sufficient to
identify them, the date he acquired said goods, the name and address of the
person from whom he acquired them and the place from whence they were last
moved. In addition thereto, the applicant shall provide proof that he has an
active South Dakota sales tax collection license.
   B.   The license fee shall be as established from time to time by resolution
of the city council for the benefit of the general fund of the city, and is
hereby required of every transient merchant for the time he operates in the
city. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986)
4-6-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon filing of the application required by section
4-6-3 of this chapter and payment of fee in advance, the finance officer shall
issue a license to the applicant to do business at the place described in the
application, in the city and for the time for which license fee has been paid
in advance. No license shall be authority for operation by more than one
transient merchant nor for more than one place. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986)
4-6-5: LICENSE RENEWALS:
A license issued pursuant to section
4-6-4 of this chapter may be renewed at or before its expiration by payment of
additional license fee and filing an additional application if such additional
application is demanded by the finance officer. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986)
4-6-6: WEEKLY REPORTS:
It shall be the duty of each licensed transient merchant to file with the
finance officer at the end of each week a written report as to whether he
intends to continue such business and also to file a written report when he
ceases to do business under any license granted. Failure to file either report
shall be grounds for revocation of the license. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986)
4-6-7: BANKRUPT OR FIRE SALES:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to conduct a transient
retail business in any store in the city for the sale of goods which are
represented or advertised as a bankrupt stock, assigned stock or as goods
damaged by fire, water or otherwise or by any such representation or device
without having first obtained a license.
   B.   License Fee: The amount of the fee for the license required by
subsection A of this section shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the city council. The sum paid as license fees shall be paid to
the finance officer and be credited to the general fund. (Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986;
amd. 2005 Code)
4-6-8: EXEMPTIONS:
Sections
4-6-1 to
4-6-6, inclusive, of this chapter shall not apply to buying and selling of
goods by cooperative associations, to sales where proceeds are to be used
exclusively for religious, charitable, local nonprofit or benevolent purposes,
to sales by sample for future delivery made by representatives of established
wholesalers or manufacturers, or to sales by licensed peddlers 1 . (Ord. 1541,
11-3-1986; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5 of this title.
4-6-9: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
Any person aggrieved by any decision of the finance officer under the
provisions of this chapter shall have a right of appeal to the city council.
(Ord. 1541, 11-3-1986)
CHAPTER 7
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: License Required; Fee
4-7-3: Records Required
4-7-4: Holding Period
4-7-5: Inspections
4-7-6: Minors
4-7-7: Firearms, Ammunition, And Components Exempt
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
PAWNBROKER: Any person who loans money on deposit or pledge of personal
property or other valuable thing, who deals in the purchasing of personal
property or other valuable thing on condition of selling the same back again at
a stipulated price, who loans money secured by pledge of personal property by
taking possession of the property or any part thereof so pledged, or who deals
in the buying and selling of personal property in conjunction with the
foregoing. (Ord. 1653, 2-5-1990)
4-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall engage in the business of a pawnbroker without having first
obtained a license therefor upon application and approval of the City Council.
The license fee shall be as established from time to time by resolution of the
City Council. (Ord. 1653, 2-5-1990)
4-7-3: RECORDS REQUIRED:
   A.   Identification Required: All pawnbrokers within the City shall keep a
record of all loans made and all articles received as security and all articles
purchased outright for resale. The pawnbroker is required to receive the
following information: full name, date of birth, present address, phone number,
height, weight, sex, color of hair, color of eyes and date and time articles
received.
This information must be verified by an official driver's license or state
issued identification bearing the picture and signature of the person so
identified. The pawnbroker shall document the state from which the
identification was issued and the type of identification, the number from the
identification card and the expiration date thereof.
   B.   Proper Form Required: The pawnbroker will be required to fill out and
complete the pawn form approved by the Chief of Police or designated
representative, which will be in duplicate, and of which one copy will be given
to the Police Department. This copy must be legible and contain all the
information needed to properly identify the item or items pawned or purchased
outright for resale as required by the Police Department.
   C.   Copy Of Records For Police Department: A copy of the records required
in subsection B of this section on the prescribed or approved form shall be
delivered into the possession of the Police Department within seven (7) days
from the date of purchase or receipt. A pawnbroker may exclude from the copy of
the record delivered to the Police Department the amount paid for the article
or loaned against the article. (Ord. 1653, 2-5-1990)
4-7-4: HOLDING PERIOD:
All articles of personal property purchased or received by a pawnbroker within
the City through a regulated transaction shall be identifiable to the record of
that transaction and shall be held on the licensed premises of the pawnbroker
or some other secure location within the City and shall not be disposed of or
altered from the form in which it was received for a period of seventy two (72)
hours, not counting Sundays or holidays, from the time a record of the
transaction is received by the Police Department; except, that the seventy two
(72) hour holding period for purchased or received articles shall not apply to
the return of any such articles to the original owner thereof by repurchase or
redemption from pawn; provided, that the records of the transactions are
maintained as otherwise provided by this chapter. If the record of such
transaction is sent to the Police Department through U.S. mail, it shall be
presumed that receipt of same by the Police Department occurred twenty four
(24) hours from the time of mailing for the purposes of computing said holding
period. A member of the Police Department shall indicate on each such record
the date and time of receipt thereof. Any such article purchased or received by
a pawnbroker may be altered or disposed of prior to the expiration of the
holding period if first inspected by an authorized police officer, and the
alteration or disposition is approved. (Ord. 1653, 2-5-1990)
4-7-5: INSPECTIONS:
The records and business premises of all pawnbrokers within the City shall be
open for inspection by a representative of the Police Department at all
reasonable times, for the purpose of prevention of fraud, the promotion of the
public health and safety and to assure compliance with applicable regulations.
(Ord. 1653, 2-5-1990)
4-7-6: MINORS 1 :
No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall pawn or sell property to,
or borrow money from a licensed pawnbroker. No licensed pawnbroker shall accept
or pawn or purchase property from nor loan money to any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years. Violation of this section shall be punishable as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code and shall constitute grounds for revocation of the
pawnbroker's license. (2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 4 of this Code.
4-7-7: FIREARMS, AMMUNITION, AND COMPONENTS EXEMPT:
To the extent prohibited by South Dakota Codified Laws 9-19-20, this chapter
shall not apply to firearms, ammunition, or their components. (Ord. O2019-08,
6-17-2019)
CHAPTER 8
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definitions
4-8-2: License Required; Fee
4-8-3: Application For License
4-8-4: Issuance Of License
4-8-5: Records And Reports
4-8-6: License Restrictions
4-8-7: Revocation Of License
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
JUNK DEALER: Any person engaged in business as a junk dealer or trader in junk,
old metals, rags, wastepaper, old automobiles or other articles or things
which, from their work condition, are rendered useless for the purpose for
which made. (1984 Code § 18-1)
4-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No person shall engage in business as a junk dealer without first having
secured a license to so operate, and by first paying an annual license fee in
an amount as established from time to time by resolution of the city council
for each establishment or place of business. (1984 Code §§ 18-2, 18-4)
4-8-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license to engage in business as a junk dealer shall make
application, in writing, to the city council on the general form required and
shall also state:
   A.   The length of time applicant has resided in the city.
   B.   His place of residence and previous employment.
   C.   The premises where the business is located or carried on. Such
description shall be given by street number, in case of a building, and in case
of a vacant lot, the same shall be designated by legal description together
with the exact dimensions of the space to be occupied in any manner in the
conducting of such business.
   D.   Such other information as may be required by the city council. (1984
Code § 18-3)
4-8-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon filing of the application together with the necessary license fee, the
city council, if it deems such applicant and location to be fit and proper to
engage in such business, may, by majority vote, grant such license, and
thereupon, such license shall be issued by the finance officer in the manner
provided for the issuance of other licenses. (1984 Code § 18-5; amd. 2005 Code)
4-8-5: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Record Of Purchases: Every junk dealer shall keep, in such form as the
chief of police or designated representative shall require, written in ink or
indelible pencil, a daily record of all articles purchased by him, together
with the name, residence, age and occupation of the person from whom each
article was purchased and the name of the employer of such person and also
showing the day and hour of such purchase and the price paid by the junk
dealer.
Such record shall at all reasonable times, be open to the inspection of the
chief of police or any police officer or other person authorized by the chief
of police.
No entry in such record shall be changed, erased, obliterated or defaced. (1984
Code § 18-7)
   B.   Reports Required: Every junk dealer, upon being served with written
notice to do so by a member of the police department, shall report to the chief
of police or designated representative, giving a written description of all
goods, articles and things purchased or received by him in the course of his
business as a junk dealer covering such period of time as may be specified in
the notice. Such written report shall state the amount paid for each such item
and the name, residence and general description of the person from whom such
goods, articles or things were received. (1984 Code § 18-8)
4-8-6: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Premises: No junk dealer shall carry on the business at or from any
other place than the premises designated and described in the application and
license. All junk of any kind or description shall be kept wholly within the
boundaries of such premises.
   B.   Burning: It shall be unlawful for any junk dealer to burn junk or
refuse on the premises covered by the license or any other place in the city.
   C.   Wrecking And Dismantling Vehicles: The wrecking and dismantling of old
cars for the purpose of securing parts shall be done wholly inside the
buildings occupied by the junk dealer or within the enclosure hereinafter
provided for and shall not, in any event, be done upon the highway or streets
of the city or outside the premises described in the application and license.
(1984 Code § 18-9)
   D.   Outdoor Operations; Fence Requirements: In all cases wherein the
business of a junk dealer is to be conducted on a vacant lot or in a partially
enclosed structure, the city council shall have the right to determine whether
or not the appearance of the lot distracts from the sightliness of the area in
which such premises may be located, and in the event the city council finds
that the appearance of the lot does distract from the appearance of the area in
which located, no license shall be granted until such lot shall have been
enclosed with a tight, well constructed and well painted fence of a height as
permitted by the fence regulations of the city 1  or of a height sufficient to
cut off public view. (1984 Code § 18-9; amd. 2005 Code)
After the construction of such fence, it shall be at all times suitably
maintained and kept in good repair by the licensee.
In no event shall any such licensee permit any advertising matter of any sort
to be placed upon the fence; except, that such licensee may use not to exceed
fifty (50) square feet of the fence for the purpose of advertising his
business. (1984 Code § 18-9)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 9-5-3C of this code.
4-8-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city council may, at any time and for cause, if, upon investigation, it
deems the same sufficient, revoke any license granted under the provisions of
this chapter after giving reasonable notice of hearing to the holder of such
license. Whenever such license shall be revoked, no refund of any unearned
portion of the license fee shall be made.
Notice of such hearing shall be served upon the licensee named in the license
either by personal service or by mailing the same to the address given in the
application and by the filing of a copy of the finance officer. (1984 Code §
18-6)
CHAPTER 9
HOUSE MOVERS
SECTION:
4-9-1: License Required
4-9-2: Application For License; Fee
4-9-3: Issuance Of License
4-9-4: Bond Requirements
4-9-5: Exemptions
4-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, except a licensed house mover, shall move any building into, along
or across any street or alley of the city. (1984 Code § 16-1)
4-9-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
   A.   Application: The application for a house mover's license shall be
presented to the finance officer and, in addition to the matters required in
the general form, shall also show:
      1.   Length of time applicant has been engaged in the house moving
business.
      2.   Places where and periods during which applicant has been engaged in
the house moving business.
      3.   Proof of bond as required by section
4-9-4 of this chapter. (1984 Code § 16-2)
   B.   Fee: The license fee for house movers shall be as established from time
to time by resolution of the city council. (1984 Code § 16-3)
4-9-3: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The finance officer shall present the application for house mover's license to
the city council. If the city council finds that the applicant is a properly
qualified and adequately equipped house mover and that he has filed a bond in
proper form, it may approve the issuance of such license upon payment of the
required license fee. (1984 Code § 16-4)
4-9-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
The applicant for a license for house moving shall file with the finance
officer a bond running to the city in the penal sum of three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) with sufficient sureties to be approved by the city council and
conditioned that the applicant, if the license is granted to him, will, in
carrying on the business of house moving, conform to all requirements relating
thereto which are now or may be hereafter established by the city. It shall
further be required that the licensee will leave the premises vacated in a safe
and sanitary condition and repair and make good to the satisfaction of the city
council all damages to any pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk, hydrant, street,
alley or other property, including trees or shrubbery, done or caused by
himself, his servants or employees in moving any building or in connection with
the moving thereof, and that he will immediately indemnify and save harmless
the city against any liability for damages, costs or expenses arising or which
may arise in favor of any person by reason of any negligence on his part or on
the part of his servants or employees in connection with the moving of any
building or the use of any public street or ground for that purpose. (1984 Code
§ 16-5)
4-9-5: EXEMPTIONS:
Except for section
4-9-4, the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any person making
application for a permit to move any building constructed within the city,
approved by the building official, where such building does not exceed nine
feet in height, fourteen feet in width and twenty feet in length (9' x 14' x
20'), and provided, that such building may be carried on a straight flatbed
truck with an overall height not to exceed thirteen feet (13').
Such permit shall be classified as a special permit, and before issuance of the
permit, the applicant shall pay to the finance officer the fee established from
time to time set by resolution of the city council. (1984 Code § 16-13)
CHAPTER 10
AUCTIONEERS
SECTION:
4-10-1: License Required; Fee
4-10-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No auctioneer shall hold any sale within the city without having first obtained
a license therefor. The license fee for auctioneers shall be established from
time to time by resolution of the city council. (1984 Code § 20-19)
CHAPTER 11
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION
4-11-1: Intent
4-11-2: Definitions
4-11-3: Cannabis Establishment License Required
4-11-4: Number Of Licenses Restricted
4-11-5: Application Process
4-11-6: Transfer Or Modification Of License
4-11-7: License To Remain Active
4-11-8: Fees Established
4-11-9: General Obligations Of Licensee
4-11-10: Fire And Building Regulations
4-11-11: Surveillance Cameras
4-11-12: Financial Responsibility
4-11-13: Unauthorized Conduct Relating To Cannabis
4-11-14: Signage And Advertising
4-11-15: Suspension And Revocation
4-11-16: Liability And Indemnification
4-11-17: Compliance With Other Applicable Laws
4-11-18: Enforcement, Penalty, And Nuisance
4-11-19: Medical Cannabis
4-11-1: INTENT:
The city council of the city of Mitchell hereby enacts the following licensing
chapter in order to ensure that cannabis establishments within the municipal
boundaries of the city operate in a manner which complies with state laws and
regulations, protects the health, safety, and welfare of the general public,
prevents potential conflicts and issues arising from ownership and employees,
recognizes certain safety and security considerations, and minimizes risk of
unauthorized use or access of cannabis by the general public. (Ord. O2021-07,
6-2-2021)
4-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless an alternative definition is explicitly stated in this section, this
chapter utilizes the definitions for cannabis related terms which are defined
by SDCL 34-20G-1.
APPLICANT:                        A person or entity seeking or renewing a
                                  cannabis establishment license.
                                  All parts of any plant of the genus
                                  cannabis, whether growing or not, in its
                                  natural and unaltered state, except for
                                  drying or curing and crushing or
                                  crumbling. The term includes an altered
                                  state of marijuana absorbed into the
                                  human body. The term does not include
                                  fiber produced from the mature stalks of
                                  such plant, or oil or cake made from the
CANNABIS (or MARIJUANA):          seeds of such plant. The term does not
                                  include the plant cannabis sativa L. and
                                  any part of that plant, including the
                                  seeds thereof and all derivatives,
                                  extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids,
                                  salts, and salts of isomers, whether
                                  growing or not, with a delta-
                                  9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of
                                  not more than three-tenths of one
                                  percent on a dry weight basis.
                                  A legally licensed entity that acquires,
                                  possesses, cultivates, delivers,
CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY:    transfers, transports, supplies, or
                                  sells cannabis and related supplies to a
                                  cannabis establishment.
                                  A legally licensed entity that acquires,
                                  possesses, stores, delivers, transfers,
CANNABIS DISPENSARY:              transports, sells, supplies, or
                                  dispenses cannabis, cannabis products,
                                  paraphernalia, or related supplies and
                                  educational materials.
                                  A cannabis cultivation facility, a
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT:           cannabis testing facility, a cannabis
                                  product manufacturing facility, or a
                                  cannabis dispensary.
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE or A license issued pursuant to this
LICENSE:                          chapter for the purpose of operating a
                                  type of cannabis establishment.
                                  A legally licensed entity that acquires,
CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING    possesses, manufactures, delivers,
FACILITY:                         transfers, transports, supplies, or
                                  sells cannabis products to a cannabis
                                  dispensary.
                                  A legally licensed entity legally
CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY:        authorized to analyze the safety and
                                  potency of cannabis.
CITY:                             The city of Mitchell, South Dakota.
CITY COUNCIL:                     The city council of the city of
                                  Mitchell, South Dakota.
FINANCE OFFICER:                  The finance officer of the city of
                                  Mitchell, South Dakota.
                                  A person, people, or entity in
LICENSEE:                         possession of a cannabis establishment
                                  license issued pursuant to this chapter.
MAYOR:                            The mayor of the city of Mitchell, South
                                  Dakota.
                                  An entity engaged in diagnosing,
                                  treating, caring for, or counseling
MENTAL HEALTH FACILITY:           people requiring mental health services,
                                  including substance abuse disorders, but
                                  which does not regularly provide other
                                  types of personal health services.
                                  The area of a cannabis establishment
RETAIL AREA:                      where a customer can view and/or
                                  purchase cannabis or cannabis products.
                                  All parts of a cannabis dispensary
                                  except an unsecured waiting room where
SECURED AREA:                     people may gather before entering the
                                  verification lobby or after leaving the
                                  secured exit.
                                  The controlled location of a cannabis
                                  dispensary located between the retail
                                  area of a cannabis dispensary and the
SECURED EXIT:                     non-secured area or exterior with a
                                  secured door at both its entrance and
                                  exit which allows eligible persons to
                                  exit the retail area.
STATE:                            The state of South Dakota.
                                  The controlled location of a cannabis
                                  dispensary located between the non-
                                  secured area or exterior of a cannabis
VERIFICATION LOBBY:               dispensary and the retail floor with a
                                  secured door at both its entrance and
                                  exit which allows eligible persons to
                                  enter the retail area. (Ord. O2021-07,
                                  6-2-2021)
 
4-11-3: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Classes Of License: Each type of the four (4) cannabis establishments
shall have its own class of license relating to the activities unique to each
type of cannabis establishment. The four (4) license classes are cannabis
cultivation license, cannabis dispensary license, cannabis product
manufacturing license, and cannabis testing license.
   B.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to
create or operate a cannabis establishment in the city without first having
obtained a license from the city and a registration certificate from the state
for each cannabis establishment to be operated in connection with such
business. Such license and certification shall be kept current at all times,
and the failure to maintain a current license and certification shall
constitute a violation of this section.
   C.   Multiple Licenses: A person or entity who intends to conduct activities
which would meet the definition of multiple cannabis establishments must, prior
to operating such cannabis establishments, obtain a license for each class of
cannabis establishment which pertain to the intended activities. A person or
entity may hold more than one (1) class of license except when otherwise
prohibited by this chapter.
   D.   License Location: Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall
authorize a single cannabis establishment to operate at a single location.
Licenses of different classes may overlap except when otherwise prohibited by
this chapter.
   E.   License Duration: Each license issued is effective from January 1
through December 31 of the year applied for, regardless of the time of year
such license is approved. Each license expires at 11:59:59 P.M. on December 31
unless, prior to the expiration, the city council has approved, or
conditionally approved, the renewal of such license for the following calendar
year. (Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021)
4-11-4: NUMBER OF LICENSES RESTRICTED:
   A.   The number of cannabis establishment licenses which may be issued at a
single time shall be restricted by license class. For cannabis dispensary
licenses, no more than five (5) licenses shall be issued at any given time. For
all other cannabis establishment licenses, no numerical limit is set at the
time of adoption. The numerical limits for each class of cannabis establishment
may be altered at any time by resolution of the city council.
   B.   In the event the numerical cap is lowered to an amount less than the
number of the existing licenses in that class, no existing licensee shall be
prevented from continuing operation during the license term, requesting
modifications to application information, from renewing such license for
consecutive, subsequent years, or from transferring such license, on the basis
that the numerical limit would otherwise prohibit the issuance of a license to
a new applicant. However, this exception shall not prevent a license from being
suspended or revoked, nor shall it prevent a license from not being renewed or
a transfer approved, based upon grounds other than the numerical limit being
exceeded. (Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021)
4-11-5: APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Application For License: An applicant must submit a signed application,
in writing, to the city finance office using the form established by the city.
Such application must include:
      1.    The legal name of the applicant.
      2.    The physical address of the applicant.
      3.    The name and date of birth of each principal officer and board
member of the applicant entity.
      4.    Previous experience operating a legal cannabis establishment, if
any.
      5.    Summary of operating procedures, including procedures to ensure
accurate record keeping, adequate security measures, sufficient fire and
building code considerations, and compliance with all other requirements of
this chapter.
      6.    Confirmation that none of the principal officers or board members
has served as a principal officer or board member for a cannabis establishment
that has had governmental license or certification revoked in any jurisdiction.
      7.    Confirmation that none of the principal officers or board members
is under twenty-one (21) years of age.
      8.    Confirmation that the applicant has conducted a background check
into the criminal history of each principal officer, board member, agent,
volunteer, or employee involved in the operation at the time of application.
      9.    Proof that at least one (1) principal officer is a resident of this
state.
      10.   Payment of the applicable license fee.
      11.   A copy of the applicant's sales tax license.
      12.   Proof that all property taxes, business improvement district taxes,
and pending assessments relating to the cannabis establishment location have
been paid.
      13.   Proof of financial responsibility in the amounts and manner
established in this chapter below.
      14.   A sworn statement that the application contains no false statements
made or omissions of any material matter in any application for a license.
      15.   The applicant's notarized signature.
      16.   All application materials the applicant intends to submit to the
state Department of Health for seeking a registration certificate.
   B.   Action By City Council:
      1.    The city council will consider a completed application at the next
available city council meeting following submittal, provided that such
application must be submitted in advance of the general agenda item submission
deadline established by the finance office. Applications are generally
processed on a first come, first served basis except as further provided by
this chapter.
      2.    The city council may approve or deny an application in full or on
condition. Such action of the city council must take place within thirty (30)
days after the application's first presentment to the city council.
      3.    If approved, the mayor and finance officer will endorse the
application and notify the applicant of approval by close of business on the
next business day following the city council's approval. If the council imposes
any conditions, such conditions shall be listed on the license at the time of
issuance. No approved application shall become effective and no license shall
be issued until the applicant provides to the finance officer a copy of the
applicant's certificate of registration from the state relating to the cannabis
establishment for which the license was approved. If the applicant made any
material changes to their application materials during the process of state
certification, then the applicant must provide such updated materials to the
city council and the city council must approve of such changes before the
license may be issued.
      4.    If denied, the council must state the basis on which the
application was denied, which may include, but is not limited to: incorrect
application information, missing required application criteria, insufficient
detail in application, nonpayment of any obligation, proposed activity would
violate city ordinance, proposed activity would violate state law or
regulations, no license available due to maximum number already issued,
proposed location not zoned properly, proposed location does not comply with an
applicable buffer zone, or concerns over potential building, fire, or nuisance
code issues.
      5.   No application for a license of any kind under this chapter may be
received by the city finance office until such time as the state of South
Dakota promulgates their initial regulations under SDCL Section 34-20G-72. Any
application submitted prior to such time shall be deemed rejected.
   C.   Special Procedures for Capped Licenses:
      1.    For license classes where the council has established a numerical
cap, applications shall be accepted by the special procedures provided in this
section.
      2.    These special procedures shall apply whenever a new license becomes
available in a capped license class.
      3.    When such availability occurs, the city shall publish an invitation
for applications on the city's website stating the deadline to apply and the
location applications may be submitted. No application for a capped license
class will be accepted prior to publication of the invitation nor after the
deadline established in the invitation.
      4.    Applications submitted pursuant to an invitation must be submitted
in writing and sealed. An applicant may not supplement their application after
the deadline has passed.
      5.    Once the deadline has passed, the finance officer shall open all
sealed applications received during the invitation submittal window and review
each application for completeness. Applications which are objectively
incomplete shall be rejected and ineligible for further consideration.
Applications which may be incomplete, but which require subjective
interpretation, may continue through the process for the city council to make
such determination. Such review shall be completed within five (5) business
days from the established deadline to receive applications.
      6.    The remaining applications shall be placed into order by the
finance officer utilizing a lottery system to establish the order in which
applications will be considered. Following the review period, the finance
officer shall publish notice of the lottery on the city's website at least
twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the lottery being conducted and such
lottery shall be open to the public. Once the lottery is completed, the
remaining applications will be placed on the agenda of the next regularly
available city council meeting.
      7.    Remaining applications will then be considered by city council on
their merits in the order set by lottery. City council will approve or deny
applications in the established order, but may review all applications before
deciding on any individual application. City council will approve or deny the
applications in order until all applications have been acted on or the
numerical cap has been reached. If the numerical cap has been reached and there
are still applications which have not been acted on, such undecided
applications shall be deemed rejected.
      8.    If no applications are received following an invitation for
applications, or if the numerical cap is not reached pursuant to an invitation
for applications, these special rules shall no longer apply and applications
may be received, processed, and considered on a first come, first served basis
beginning at open of business the day following the city council meeting at
which the last application was acted upon pursuant to the invitation for
applications. Such applications must be delivered in writing to the finance
office no earlier than the time specified above and applications received
before such time are deemed rejected.
      9.    If the numerical cap is then reached while using the first come,
first served system, and a license subsequently lapses making a new license
available, these special procedures shall apply to issuing the new license.
   D.   Renewal Process:
      1.    A person or entity operating pursuant to a license must submit an
application for renewal of such license at least forty-five (45) days but not
more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of such license using the
form provided by the city finance office. Such application must include payment
of the renewal application fee.
      2.    The city council will consider renewal applications using the same
factors and timelines applicable to new applications. In addition, the city
council may also consider in approving, denying, or conditionally approving a
renewal application, any changed information from prior applications, concerns
over actual operations or violations, nonpayment of obligations, or any on
other information reasonably related to the continued operation of the cannabis
establishment.
      3.    Applications for renewal submitted within the applicable window
will be given priority over new applications in a capped license class. Renewal
applications submitted after the window has expired will be given no priority
and must submit a new application.
      4.    The renewal application must specify if any information has changed
from its prior application.
      5.    The renewal application must be accompanied by all payments
relating to the renewal application as well as a copy of the licensee's state
certification.
      6.    The renewal application must re-confirm or prove all the
requirements applicable to new applications remain met, including but not
limited to financial responsibility, background checks, age, residency, etc.
      7.    An applicant is not automatically entitled to renewal of their
license and the license will only be renewed by city council after full
consideration of the unique facts and circumstances pertaining to each
individual license. (Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021; amd. Ord. O2021-13, 9-27-2021)
4-11-6: TRANSFER OR MODIFICATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   No license shall be transferred or modified except with the approval of
the city council.
   B.   Prior to any transfer of a license from a licensee to an unaffiliated
person, people, or entity, the licensee and the proposed transferee must
complete a transfer application. Such transfer application must include all
information required for a new application as to the proposed transferee and
pay a transfer application fee. The city council shall then approve, deny, or
conditionally approve the proposed transfer using the same factors and
timetables as apply to renewal applications. A transferred license is subject
to all provisions and timelines applicable to a new or renewed license.
   C.   Prior to any modification of ownership or management of a licensed
cannabis establishment, the licensee must provide thirty (30) days' notice to
the finance officer in writing of the proposed changes.
   D.   Prior to any modification of location or layout of a licensed cannabis
establishment, the licensee must provide 30 days' notice to the finance officer
in writing of the proposed changes.
   E.   In relation to a change in ownership, management, location, or layout,
the mayor may approve minor changes administratively and charge an
administrative modification fee. However, if the mayor determines the proposed
changes are not minor and may substantially alter the operation of the cannabis
establishment as previously approved, the mayor shall direct the matter to be
placed on the next available city council meeting. The city council shall then
approve, deny, or conditionally approve the proposed changes using the same
factors and timetables as apply to renewal applications. For changes referred
to the city council, applicant shall also pay a full modification fee.
   F.   Transfers, modifications, and renewals occurring simultaneously for the
same license require separate applications and payment of separate fees.
However, the city council may waive one or more, but not all, of the fees and
consider the matters as a joint application. (Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021)
4-11-7: LICENSE TO REMAIN ACTIVE:
Every license issued pursuant to this chapter must remain in continuous, active
use. A license that is not being actively used for a period of more than
fourteen (14) consecutive days or for sixty (60) cumulative days per year may
be deemed inactive by the city finance officer. Active use includes times where
the licensee is open and available to conduct business but such business cannot
occur due to factors outside of the control of the licensee. However, days
where the license is suspended by the city shall not be used for purposes of
calculating inactivity. (Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021)
4-11-8: FEES ESTABLISHED:
Fees relating to cannabis establishment licenses are established as further
provided by this section. The fees established apply to each class of cannabis
establishment license unless expressly stated otherwise. All amounts set for
fees in this section are due at the time the application or modification is
requested and are non-refundable even if the action sought by the application
or modification is denied or rejected. The city council may add a fee, delete a
fee, or alter any fee amount by resolution at any time. The initial types and
amounts of fees are as follows:
 
New cannabis establishment application fee      $5,000.00
Renewal cannabis establishment application fee  $5,000.00
Transfer cannabis establishment application fee $5,000.00
Administrative modification fee                 $50.00
Full modification fee                           $500.00
 
(Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021; amd. Ord. O2021-13, 9-27-2021)
4-11-9: GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF LICENSEE:
   A.   The following obligations shall apply to each licensee and cannabis
establishment:
      1.    Each licensee must keep any information stated in an approved
application current and up to date.
      2.    Each licensee shall have a continuing duty to maintain any
eligibility criteria or certifications required by this chapter for an
application.
      3.    All cannabis establishments shall conduct all business activities
within an enclosed structure, including but not limited to, cultivating,
growing, processing, displaying, manufacturing, selling and storage except such
loading and unloading which is incidental to such indoor activities.
      4.   No cannabis or related paraphernalia shall be displayed or kept in a
business so as to be visible from outside the cannabis establishment.
      5.   No cannabis establishment shall allow the emission of any gas,
vapors, odors, smoke, dust, heat, or glare that is noticeable at or beyond the
property line of the cannabis establishment. Sufficient measures and means of
preventing the escape of such substances from a cannabis establishment must be
provided at all times. In the event that any gas, vapors, odors, smoke, dust,
heat, or glare or other substances exit a cannabis establishment, the owner of
the subject premises and the licensee shall be jointly and severally liable for
such conditions and shall be responsible for immediate, full clean-up and
correction of such condition. The licensee shall properly dispose of all such
materials, items, and other substances in a safe, sanitary, and secure manner
and in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and
regulations.
      6.   Each licensee will retain all books and records necessary to show
fully the business transactions of the licensee for a period of the current tax
year and the three (3) immediately prior tax years. Such records shall be
maintained in a manner which, if released to the city, would not contain
information protected by state law. Such records must be provided to the city
upon request.
      7.   No cannabis establishment may employ any person who is not at least
twenty-one (21) years of age.
      8.   Each licensee shall provide adequate security to prevent criminal
activity on cannabis establishment premises, including parking areas.
      9.   A licensee shall be required to pay all delinquent court judgments
arising out of their dispensary and dispensary operations.
      10.   A licensee shall not permit the general public to access any part
of a cannabis establishment except where such access is permitted by law. A
licensee must put in place reasonable security measures to prevent such access.
      11.   A licensee must operate as provided in the application, comply with
any conditions attached to their license, and comply with all state and local
laws.
      12.   A person or entity may not take any actions for which a license is
required without holding both a valid license issued under this chapter and a
valid corresponding state license.
   B.   Additional Requirements for Cannabis Dispensaries:
      1.    A cannabis dispensary may only sell cannabis, cannabis products,
and paraphernalia aiding in the consumption of these items and is prohibited
from selling any other item or service.
      2.   Entry to a cannabis dispensary shall be restricted. Each cannabis
dispensary must have a verification lobby and secured exit. The verification
lobby and the secured exit must be separated from each other.
      3.   No more than ten (10) non-employees may be permitted within the
secured area at one time.
      4.   When granting access to non-employees, the licensee shall unlock the
entry door to the verification lobby, allow the person or people to enter the
verification lobby, and then verify that each person in the verification lobby
is legally permitted to access and purchase cannabis or cannabis products in
the retail area. If any person is found to be ineligible, that person must
leave the verification lobby prior to the verification lobby exit door being
opened into the retail area. Once all individuals in the verification lobby
have been confirmed to be eligible to enter the retail area, the entry door to
the verification area must be closed and locked then the exit door of the
verification lobby into the retail area may be unlocked and the individuals may
enter the retail area. The exit door of the verification lobby must then be
locked after all individuals leave and before allowing any other individuals
through the entry door to the verification lobby. At all times the exit door of
the verification lobby is unlocked the entry door to the verification area must
be closed and locked.
      5.   When individuals leave the retail area, all individuals must use the
secured exit. The entry door to the secured exit from the retail area shall
remain locked until needed for use. The licensee shall then unlock the entry
door to the secured area to allow individuals to enter the secured exit from
the retail area, ensure that the entry door is closed and locked, and then
unlock the exit door of the secured exit. Once all individuals have left the
secured exit, the exit door to the secured exit shall be closed and locked.
      6.   A licensee shall not permit a non-employee to access any secured
area of a cannabis dispensary other than the verification lobby, retail area,
and secured exit.
      7.   A cannabis dispensary may be open to the public only between the
hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. daily.
      8.   A cannabis dispensary shall not maintain any quantity of cannabis in
excess of the amount permitted by State law.
      9.   All sales of cannabis shall be made in person, directly to the
purchaser, within the retail area of the cannabis dispensary. No sales shall be
made via telephone, internet, or other means of remote purchase. Deliveries
shall occur only in person to the purchaser at the time of purchase within the
retail area of the cannabis dispensary. No drive up windows or other similar
delivery process shall be allowed.
      10.   All cannabis dispensaries licensed under this chapter are required
to maintain their cannabis dispensary and premises within the following minimum
requirements:
         a.    Every dispensary licensee shall inspect their premises from lot
line to lot line, all adjacent streets, sidewalks and alleys adjoining their
premise, and sidewalks and alleys within one hundred feet (100') of such
premise lot lines and shall remove any litter and debris found there on a daily
basis to prevent the accumulation of litter and debris and the accidental or
uncontrolled release of cannabis or cannabis products.
         b.    All solid waste and recyclable materials shall be stored in
refuse containers made of metal or approved plastic and shall be equipped with
secure lids or covers, and such covers shall remain closed so as to prevent the
intrusion of storm water or vermin.
         c.    Refuse storage containers shall be enclosed on all four sides by
screening compatible with the principal structure and not less than two feet
higher than the refuse container or shall be otherwise effectively screened
from the street and adjacent properties.
   C.   Crossover Of Other Cannabis Establishments:
      1.   A cannabis dispensary, cannabis cultivation facility, and cannabis
product manufacturing facility may share a physical location if such
collocation is done in a manner which is permitted by local ordinance and state
laws and regulations.
      2.   A cannabis testing facility may not share a physical location with
any other type of cannabis establishment.
      3.   Except as provided herein, no cannabis establishment may share a
physical location with any other non-cannabis type of business or land use
type. (Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021; amd. Ord. O2021-13, 9-27-2021; Ord. O2024-14,
1-6-2025)
4-11-10: FIRE AND BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Licensees shall be required to comply with all applicable provisions of
the city's fire and building codes.
   B.   The building code official is authorized to require and apply standards
applicable to any use and occupancy classifications to a cannabis establishment
regardless of the cannabis establishment's classification when application of
such other standard is substantially related to mitigating a unique hazard
presented by a cannabis establishment.
   C.   The fire code official is authorized to require and apply standards
applicable to any use and occupancy classifications to a cannabis establishment
regardless of the cannabis establishment's classification when application of
such other standard is substantially related to mitigating a unique hazard
presented by a cannabis establishment.
   D.   All cannabis cultivation facilities, cannabis product manufacturing
facilities, and cannabis dispensaries must be equipped with a fire sprinkler
system throughout the entire licensed area. (Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021)
4-11-11: SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS:
   A.   Purpose: The city council finds that cannabis establishments can become
targets of opportunity for theft and violent crimes. The purpose of this
section is to protect the public health, safety and welfare by increasing
security for patrons and employees of these dispensaries by the use of
surveillance cameras. Surveillance cameras will assist in deterring crime in
and adjacent to such dispensaries and can provide information to assist the
police in investigating crimes that do occur.
   B.   Every cannabis establishment shall install a security camera system of
a type, number and placement approved by the police department.
   C.   The camera(s) must be capable of producing a retrievable image on
digital recording video that can be made a permanent record and which can be
viewed through projection or other means. Camera(s) and digital recording
equipment shall be maintained in proper working order and recording twenty-four
hours per day.
   D.   Each cannabis establishment shall post a conspicuous sign which states
that the property is under camera surveillance.
   E.   At least one (1) camera shall be positioned to record the frontal view
of each person entering the cannabis establishment. Such other cameras as may
be necessary to monitor substantially all of the premises shall be placed by
the licensee.
   F.   The cannabis establishment shall maintain surveillance recording
materials for a period of one month within the recording system before
overwriting or destruction. Digital recording materials shall be marked with
the accurate time and date in a method that does not interfere with the image
being recorded. Proprietary formats must have appropriate player software
included with all requested video copies. Copies may be created on CD, DVD, USB
or any other functional digital media recommended by the manufacturer of the
installed equipment. (Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021)
4-11-12: FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   An applicant or licensee must file with the city finance officer
certificates or policies of insurance issued by a responsible insurer in the
amounts and for the purposes established below. The applicant must list the
city as an additional insured on each policy.
   B.   The applicant or licensee must maintain a commercial general liability
policy, or equivalent, with a limit of not less than two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) for each occurrence. If such insurance contains a general
aggregate limit, it must be no less than double the occurrence limit.
   C.   Upon request, the city may demand and the applicant or licensee must
provide proof of any other type of insurance required by law. (Ord. O2021-07,
6-2-2021)
4-11-13: UNAUTHORIZED CONDUCT RELATING TO CANNABIS:
   A.   No person may engage in any of the following conduct:
      1.    Undertaking any task under the influence of cannabis, when doing so
would constitute negligence or professional malpractice.
      2.    Possessing cannabis or otherwise engaging in the use of cannabis in
any correctional facility.
      3.    Smoking cannabis on any form of public transportation, in any
public place or any place that is open to the public, or on the property of any
cannabis establishment.
      4.    Operating, navigating, or being in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle, aircraft, train, or motorboat while under the influence of
cannabis. (Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021)
4-11-14: SIGNAGE AND ADVERTISING:
   A.   Cannabis establishments shall apply for a sign permit with the public
works department. All exterior signage associated with a cannabis establishment
must meet the standards established in the city code. In addition, no exterior
signage shall use the word "marijuana," "cannabis," or any other word, phrase,
or symbol commonly understood to refer to cannabis.
   B.   A cannabis establishment may not advertise in a manner that is
misleading, deceptive, false, or is designed to appeal to minors.
   C.   Within each cannabis dispensary, there shall be posted in a conspicuous
location a legible sign containing the following warnings:
      1.    A warning that the use of cannabis may impair a person's ability to
drive a motor vehicle or operate machinery, and that it is illegal under state
law to drive a motor vehicle or operate machinery when under the influence of
or impaired by cannabis;
      2.    A warning that possession and distribution of cannabis is a
violation of federal law;
      3.    A warning that consumption of cannabis on the property of a
cannabis establishment is prohibited by law; and
      4.    A warning that smoking cannabis in public or on any form of public
transportation is prohibited by law.
   D.   Except as otherwise provided in this section it shall be unlawful for
any person licensed under this article or any other person to advertise any
cannabis establishment or any cannabis product anywhere within the city where
the advertisement is in plain view of, or in, a place open to the general
public, including advertising utilizing any of the following media: any
billboard or other outdoor general advertising device as defined by the zoning
code; any sign mounted on a vehicle; any hand-held or other portable sign; or
any handbill, leaflet, or flier directly handed to any person in a public
place, left upon a motor vehicle, or posted upon any public or private
property. The prohibition set forth in this section shall not apply to:
      1.    Any sign located on the licensed premises of a cannabis
establishment which exists solely for the purpose of identifying the location
of the premises and which otherwise complies with this code and any other
applicable city laws and regulations; or
      2.    Any advertisement contained within a newspaper, magazine, or other
periodical of general circulation within the city or on the internet.
   E.   No cannabis establishment shall distribute or allow the distribution of
any cannabis without charge within a cannabis establishment or at any other
place for purposes of promotion, advertising, or any other purpose. (Ord.
O2021-07, 6-2-2021)
4-11-15: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   A license is subject to suspension or revocation under certain
circumstances including, but not limited to:
      1.    Violation of any provision of this chapter.
      2.    The license has been deemed inactive.
      3.    Nonpayment of any obligation, including utilities.
      4.    Failure to maintain proof of financial responsibility.
      5.   Inadequate or faulty security measures or surveillance cameras.
      6.    Public safety concerns have been identified which may or may not
rise to the level of a violation.
   B.   Upon determination by the mayor that grounds exist for the suspension
or revocation of a license, a notice of suspension or revocation shall be
physically delivered and posted at the licensed location. Such notice shall
state the grounds for the suspension or revocation, the time and date of a
hearing with the city council if the licensee wishes to contest the suspension
or revocation, and whether or not the license is temporarily suspended pending
the outcome of such hearing. Upon issuance of the notice, the mayor shall
direct that a hearing be scheduled for the next available city council meeting
in order to consider the suspension or revocation of the license.
   C.   In deciding whether a license will be suspended or revoked, the city
council shall consider all facts and circumstances relating to the grounds
alleged in the notice to warrant suspension or revocation of the license. At
the close of the hearing, the city council may uphold the suspension or
revocation or reverse the suspension or revocation. In the event that the
suspension or revocation is reversed, the city council may impose any
additional conditions on the license which are reasonably calculated to ensure
that the aggrieved conduct does not reoccur, including an administrative
penalty not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   D.   In the event a licensee's state certification is suspended or revoked,
the licensee's city license shall automatically be suspended until such time as
the state certification returns to good standing. If such state certification
status persists long enough for the city license to be deemed inactive, such
inactivity may serve as independent grounds for revocation of the city license.
(Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021)
4-11-16: LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   By accepting a license issued pursuant to this chapter, the licensee,
and all principal officers and board members thereof, waive and release the
city, its officers, elected officials, employees, attorneys, and agents from
any liability for injuries, damages or liabilities of any kind that result from
any arrest or prosecution of business owners, operators, employees, clients, or
customers for a violation of state or federal laws, rules, or regulations.
   B.   By accepting a license issued pursuant to this chapter, each licensee
agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the city, its officers, elected
officials, employees, attorneys, agents, and insurers against all liability,
claims, and demands on account of any injury, loss or damage, including,
without limitation, claims arising from bodily injury, personal injury,
sickness, disease, death, property loss or damage, or any other loss of any
kind whatsoever arising out of or in any manner connected with the operation of
the cannabis establishment that is the subject of the license. (Ord. O2021-07,
6-2-2021)
4-11-17: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS:
   A.   Except as may be otherwise provided in this chapter, any law or
regulation adopted by the state governing the cultivation, production,
possession, or distribution of cannabis use shall also apply to cannabis
establishments licensed within the city.
   B.   If the state prohibits the sale or other distribution of cannabis in
such a manner as to make operation of a cannabis establishment pursuant to this
chapter conflict with such state prohibition, any license issued hereunder
which would be in conflict with state law shall be deemed immediately revoked
by operation of law, with no ground for appeal or other redress on behalf of
the licensee.
   C.   The issuance of any license pursuant to this chapter shall not be
deemed to create an exception, defense, or immunity for any person or entity in
regard to any potential criminal liability the person or entity may have under
federal law for the cultivation, possession, sale, distribution, or use of
cannabis.
   D.   State law at the time of implementing this chapter does not allow a
municipality to prohibit all medical cannabis establishments. In the event that
state law does not provide a municipality with such authority, the city council
may revoke, not renew, or deny the modification or transfer of, any license
issued pursuant to this chapter for the purpose of discontinuing all medical
cannabis establishment activities within the city. All licenses are expressly
issued with such discontinuation as a possibility, licensees acknowledge and
accept such possibility upon applying for a license, and shall maintain no
claim or cause of action any nature against the city for a license terminated
under such circumstances. (Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021; amd. Ord. O2021-13, 9-27-
2021)
4-11-18: ENFORCEMENT, PENALTY, AND NUISANCE:
   A.   Any person or entity violating a provision of this chapter shall be
subject to the general penalty provisions of chapter 1-4 of the Mitchell City
Code. Such liability shall be in addition to any other penalty or remedy which
may be applicable under the terms of this chapter or by law.
   B.   No person, while acting as an agent of a licensee, shall take any
action, or fail to take any action, that would cause a licensee to violate the
provisions of this chapter. Such person causing a violation shall be subject to
the general penalty provisions of chapter 1-4 of the Mitchell City Code. Such
liability shall be in addition to any other penalty or remedy which may be
applicable under the terms of this chapter or by law.
   C.   In addition to any other remedy, the city attorney may apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any
violation of this chapter. Continued violations of this chapter are deemed to
be a public nuisance. Such application for relief may include seeking a
temporary restraining order, temporary injunction, permanent injunction, or any
other remedy available at law or in equity.
   D.   In the event of a violation, suspension, or revocation where the
licensee may no longer legally possess cannabis, cannabis products, or other
restricted items, the licensee shall be responsible to pay the costs incurred
by the city for securing, storing, safeguarding, transferring, or disposing of
any cannabis, cannabis products, or other restricted items.
   E.   For all notices, reports, or other documents required to be provided to
the state, each licensee shall provide a copy of such notice, report, or
document to the city at the same time the notice, report, or document is
provided to the state. (Ord. O2021-07, 6-2-2021; amd. Ord. O2021-13, 9-27-2021)
4-11-19: MEDICAL CANNABIS:
Except for section
4-11-13, the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to relate exclusively
to medical cannabis. In the event that recreational cannabis becomes legal in
the State of South Dakota, any license granted hereunder shall not permit the
license holder to engage in business activity relating to recreational
cannabis, nor shall a license holder under this chapter be granted any
preference toward acquiring a recreational cannabis license, unless explicitly
provided by future ordinance. (Ord. O2021-13, 9-27-2021)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
911 EMERGENCY SYSTEM
SECTION:
5-1-1: System Established
5-1-2: Jurisdictional Service Area
5-1-3: Installation And Operation
5-1-4: Surcharge
5-1-1: SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
An enhanced 911 emergency telephone reporting system, as the same is defined in
South Dakota Codified Laws chapter 34-45, is hereby authorized and established.
Management and control of said system shall be vested in the city. (Ord. 1676,
11-1-1990)
5-1-2: JURISDICTIONAL SERVICE AREA:
The 911 system established by this chapter shall cover the service area,
including all of the area within the legal boundaries of the limits of the
city. The governing bodies of other counties or cities within the reasonable
service area of the city who have adopted ordinances substantially similar to
this chapter may, subject to the agreement of the city council, enter
intergovernmental agreements between the city and such other cities and
counties, as authorized by South Dakota Codified Laws 34-45-3, for the
administration of the 911 system throughout this system established by the
city. (Ord. 1676, 11-1-1990)
5-1-3: INSTALLATION AND OPERATION:
The city shall be responsible for the installation, operation and maintenance
of the 911 system and all costs incurred in respect thereto. (Ord. 1676, 11-1-
1990)
5-1-4: SURCHARGE:
   A.   Imposition Of Charge; Rate: In order to pay for the costs incurred,
both recurring and nonrecurring, the city may collect from within the city and
from within any other city or county which enters an intergovernmental
agreement for that purpose a user surcharge of seventy five cents ($0.75) per
month for each local access line service. All surcharge sums collected by any
local exchange access company from users of local exchange access lines shall
be remitted directly to the finance officer. (Ord. 1676, 11-1-1990; amd. Ord.
2135, 8-16-2004)
The surcharge shall be imposed upon every local exchange access line using this
enhanced 911 system; except, that such charge may not be imposed upon more than
one hundred (100) local exchange access lines or the equivalent per single
customer billing. All rate review procedures and rate charges shall be in
conformance with the provisions of South Dakota Codified Laws chapter 34-45.
   B.   Rate Changes: If the city does not establish new rates for the
following calendar year by September 1, then the rates for the following year
shall remain unchanged from the current year rates.
   C.   Use Of Proceeds: The proceeds of the surcharge shall be utilized to pay
for nonrecurring and recurring costs of the 911 related service as the same are
defined by statute.
All funds collected from the surcharge shall be credited to a special fund,
apart from the general fund of the city, for payment of nonrecurring and
recurring costs and for the general operational expense of the 911 related
service, including but not limited to the personnel costs. Said funds shall be
administered in accordance with the statutes, in such case made and provided.
(Ord. 1676, 11-1-1990)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Wells
5-2-2: Aircraft Landings
5-2-3: Airport Ramp Regulations
5-2-1: WELLS:
No person shall maintain or use any well for the purpose of drawing therefrom
water intended for drinking or other domestic purposes after notice from the
proper health authority to close or fill such well. (1984 Code § 15-7)
5-2-2: AIRCRAFT LANDINGS:
No person shall land any aircraft of any type, including fixed wing and rotary
wing craft, within the corporate limits of the city, except if the same shall
be landed at the municipal airport of the city in accordance with all FAA
regulations and in accordance with the traffic pattern practices then in
existence and in other areas and manners so designated by the city council by
resolution; except, that the chief of police or designated representative, or
such other person exercising the authority of the chief of police in his
absence, may direct a helicopter to be landed within the corporate limits of
the city when an emergency or other public need exists requiring the immediate
use of a helicopter and that the use of the same in such a situation would not
impose a hazard or otherwise jeopardize the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city; and excepting that float pontoon equipped aircraft
weighing less than ten thousand (10,000) pounds may takeoff and land from the
surface of Lake Mitchell if piloted by a pilot who has been certified for such
operations with proper certification annotated either in the pilot's log book
or on the pilot's FAA airman's certificate as required by the applicable FAA
regulation, that the pilot be in possession of the medical certificate required
for such flight operations. Such takeoffs and landings shall be accomplished in
a safe manner without interference to or from any other surface craft of the
lake. Such flight operations must be conducted such that no overflight of any
residence or other populated area is made at an altitude of less than five
hundred feet (500') above ground level. (1984 Code § 25-33; amd. Ord. 2445, 7-
15-2013)
5-2-3: AIRPORT RAMP REGULATIONS:
   A.   All owners shall see that aircraft are responsibly tied down at all
times. No aircraft shall be parked in the ramp tie-down area for over ten (10)
days without being moved.
   B.   No aircraft other than licensed flyable aircraft shall be allowed to
park on the airport ramp area, unless approved by the manager.
   C.   All aircraft in the ramp tie-down area shall be moved prior to each
snow event to facilitate snow removal on the ramp.
   D.   The city may move, or cause to be moved, any plane using the ramp area
at any time if deemed appropriate by the airport manager.
   E.   Any owner using the ramp designates the fixed base operator as his/her
agent and delegates to the fixed base operator the authority to move said
plane. The fixed base operator may charge the reasonable costs for such plane
removal to the plane’s owner and the plane’s owner shall be responsible for
payment of such costs. The fixed base operator is responsible for the billing
and collection of service charges arising out of this section. If fixed base
operator engages in operations pursuant to this section, fixed base operator
does so as an independent contractor and not as an agent of the city. (Ord.
O2020-01, 2-3-2020)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Nuisances Generally
5-3-4: Specific Nuisances Declared
5-3-5: Firewood
5-3-6: Acts Not Abrogating Nuisance
5-3-7: Exceptions
5-3-8: Inspection
5-3-9: City Alternatives Upon Identifying Nuisance Conditions
5-3-10: Orders To Correct
5-3-11: Service Of Necessary Documents
5-3-12: Appeals
5-3-13: Remediation Options
5-3-14: Abatement
5-3-15: Emergency Abatement
5-3-16: Offenses And Penalty
5-3-17: Liability
5-3-18: Pending Nuisance Actions At Time Of Passage And Prior Activities
5-3-19: Severability
5-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public from conditions hazardous
to public health and safety, maintain community aesthetics, prevent blight
conditions from arising, and generally preserve real estate values for property
owners and to provide procedures for the abatement of conditions contrary to
such purposes. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
CORD: A unit of quantity for cut fuel wood, equal to one hundred twenty eight
(128) cubic feet in a stack measuring four feet by four feet by eight feet (4'
x 4' x 8').
COST OF ABATEMENT: The total cost incurred by the city in connection with
abating a public nuisance including, but not limited to: any cost incurred
removing or remedying a public nuisance; a service fee for services rendered by
the city in connection with inspection, notification, prosecution, and
abatement procedures authorized under this chapter, which fee will be based on
all services rendered by the city from initial inspection of the property for
the purpose of documenting a violation of this chapter until the violation is
corrected; any expense incurred by the city in collecting the costs hereto
described; and any other necessary expense arising out of a nuisance violation,
including the reasonable costs of attorney fees.
FIREWOOD: Neatly stacked burnable wood cut into lengths of approximately one to
two feet (2') that require no further cutting of the wood prior to placing it
in a wood burner or fireplace.
JUNK: Any unused or unusable material that by reason of its state, condition,
or excessive accumulation appears to be or has been cast aside, discarded,
abandoned, worthless, useless, used up, expended, or worn out, in whole or
part.
PREMISES: An identifiable unit of property associated with a particular person
or entity.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: All strips of land not held open for public use.
PROPERTY: Includes both private property and public property.
PROPERTY AGENT: The owner, occupant, and/or person in charge of any house,
building, lot, or premises.
PUBLIC PROPERTY OR PUBLIC GROUNDS: All strips of land controlled or owned by
the city which are held open for public use including, but not limited to,
roadways, boulevards, parking, rights of way, parkways and parks.
UNSIGHTLY: A visual appearance which is unattractive, disagreeable, obnoxious,
intolerable, or otherwise unpleasant to a reasonable person. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-
2016)
5-3-3: NUISANCES GENERALLY:
   A.   It is unlawful for any property agent to create, maintain, commit, or
permit to be created, maintained or committed, any public nuisance.
   B.   The term "public nuisance" consists of doing an act without lawful
authority, or omitting to perform a duty, within the corporate limits of the
city or in any public grounds, or parts belonging to the city, which act or
omission either:
      1.   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety
of others;
      2.   Offends contemporary community moral standards;
      3.   Does or tends to lower the value of adjacent real estate because of
unsightly conditions;
      4.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or river, bay, stream, canal or basin,
or any public park, square, street, alley, right of way, or highway; or
      5.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or in the use of
property and which affects at the same time an entire community, neighborhood,
or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or
damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-4: SPECIFIC NUISANCES DECLARED:
In addition to the general public nuisances proclaimed in section
5-3-3 of this chapter, the following conditions are specifically declared to be
public nuisances:
   A.   Wastes Such As Papers, Rags, Aluminum Cans: Waste, including, but not
limited to, discarded items such as paper, rags, trash, garbage, junk,
clothing, tin cans, aluminum cans, batteries of any kind, used motor oil,
tires, boxes, plastic containers, glass containers, plastic wrap, cardboard,
discarded household fixtures and furnishings, and any like items when such
items are stored, collected, piled, or kept on exterior private or public
property, except for that contained within a covered waste receptacle which is
properly emptied frequently enough so as to prevent waste accumulation that
prevents the cover from being effective.
   B.   Building Materials And Wastes: Building materials and waste including,
but not limited to, such items as: lumber, lath, pallets, plaster, old iron, or
other metal, concrete, brick, tile, and piles of rock, sand, dirt, or gravel
when not used for landscaping purposes, and doors, windows, and scrap or
salvage building materials, boxes, barrels, or other containers, when such
items are stored, collected, piled, or kept and are not stored inside a
building; except for building materials that are temporarily stored for work on
premises authorized by a valid building permit obtained for the premises
provided that such building materials shall not remain on the premises for more
than thirty (30) days after the expiration of the building permit; and except
for lumber neatly stacked on a platform at least eighteen inches (18") off the
ground.
   C.   Appliances, Fixtures, And Furniture: Appliances, fixtures, and
furniture including, but not limited to, items such as stoves, refrigerators,
freezers, sinks, cabinets, and other kitchen appliances, bedroom furniture,
mattresses, tables, chairs, clothes washing and drying machines, bathroom
appliances and fixtures, light fixtures, washtubs, lawn mowers, tillers,
chainsaws, snowblowers, and garden equipment when such items are stored,
collected, piled, or kept and are not stored inside a building; except that
patio furniture and other furniture designed for outdoor use shall not
constitute a nuisance.
   D.   Abandoned Or Discarded Refrigerators Or Containers: It shall be
unlawful and deemed a nuisance for any person to leave or permit to remain any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other like container outside of
any dwelling, building, or other structure or within any unoccupied or
abandoned building, dwelling, or other structure or area under his or her
control that could be accessible to children.
   E.   Carcasses Of Animals And Hides: All carcasses of animals remaining
exposed one hour after death, excepting legally caught and tagged game, which
shall be twenty four (24) hours; and all undressed hides left deposited in any
open place; except that this section shall not apply to decorative animal
hides, bones, antlers, or other remains which are not prone to decay.
   F.   Combustible Refuse Matter: Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be
maintained or be accumulated upon any public or private property any
combustible refuse matter such as papers, sweepings, rags, grass, tree
branches, dead leaves, wood shavings, wood, magazines, cardboard, cotton, or
other such materials which could serve as kindling.
   G.   Liquid Refuse: All slop, foul, filth, refuse, grease, lard, or
chemically polluted water, liquor, or beer washings discharged through drains
or spouts or otherwise thrown or deposited anywhere other than an appropriate
sanitary system or container for temporary storage of such materials.
   H.   Permitting Manure, Garbage, Filth On Street, Alley, Or Public Ground:
Letting any manure, waste, junk, garbage, rubbish, filth, fuel, oil, small dead
animals, wood, or like material to fall or permit to remain on any street,
alley, or public ground; except such items placed properly in an appropriate
receptacle.
   I.   Weeds Of Excess Height; Noxious Weeds: Permitting weeds to grow to
maturity, permitting weeds or grass to grow in excess of seven inches (7")
tall, or otherwise permitting landscaping that is characterized by uncontrolled
growth or lack of maintenance on any platted property within the city. For
unplatted property within the city, such length shall be ten inches (10").
Provided, however, that such limitations shall not apply to parks, gardens,
arboreta, or similar facilities where plants in excess of the designated length
are intentionally cultivated and maintained. All noxious weeds are prohibited.
   J.   Dead Vegetation: The accumulation of dead branches, twigs, leaves,
grass, and other dead vegetation other than when in an enclosed compost bin.
   K.   Rodents, Vermin, Insects, And Other Pests: All property shall be kept
free of infestation by rodents, vermin, insects, and other pests, as well as
conditions which may encourage such infestation. Where rodents, vermin,
insects, or other pests are found, they shall be promptly exterminated by
approved processes not injurious to human health. After extermination, proper
precautions shall be taken to prevent reinfestation.
   L.   Failure To Maintain Exterior Building Appearance: All buildings'
exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant woods, shall be protected
from the elements and decay by painting or other protective covering or
treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces
repainted. All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to
inhibit such rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall
be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains
shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement. No unpainted galvanized metal
material shall be used for exterior finish surfaces in residential areas.
Windows, doors, roofing, gutters, soffit, and fascia must be maintained intact
and in good repair, as shall any interior window dressings or other interior
materials plainly visible from the exterior of the building. Temporary bracing,
scaffolding, or the like shall not stand for more than sixty (60) days unless
approved by the city building inspector. Buildings shall be free of any other
similar conditions of disrepair or deterioration regardless of the condition of
other properties in a neighborhood.
   M.   Stagnant Water: All bodies of water, excavations, ditches, and other
depressions on any premises, except storm management ponds, shall be kept free
of stagnant water. Containers or materials located on exterior property areas
shall be kept in such a condition that water cannot accumulate and stagnate in
or on the containers or materials.
   N.   Hazardous Signs: All signs shall be maintained in such a manner so as
to prevent undue danger from loose wires, electricity, exposed edges, loose
materials, unsecure anchors, or any other condition which may injure or
interfere with persons reasonably foreseeable to be in the area of such sign.
   O.   Zoning Noncompliance: It shall be unlawful and deemed a nuisance for
any person to engage in, or permit to be engaged in, any unauthorized
conditional use, home occupation, or other activity which violates city zoning
regulations on any premises in the city limits. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-5: FIREWOOD:
No property agent shall store firewood on residentially zoned property, except
for use on the premises and in conformance with the following:
   A.   No more than three (3) cords of firewood shall be stored at any time,
without the written approval of the fire department.
   B.   The firewood must be cut and neatly stacked and may not be stacked
closer than five feet (5') to any property line and not higher than six feet
(6') from grade except that firewood may be cut and neatly stacked on or near
the lot line or against a fence, provided that it is no higher than the fence
and that it is located a minimum of six feet (6') from any structure on
adjacent property.
   C.   All brush, debris, and refuse from processing of firewood shall be
promptly removed from the premises. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-6: ACTS NOT ABROGATING NUISANCE:
   A.   No nuisance may be abrogated by moving, shifting, or otherwise
redistributing items so that the nuisance conditions still exist on the
premises or elsewhere in the corporate city limits.
   B.   No nuisance may be abrogated by the presence or construction of a
fence, wall, or other visual barrier.
   C.   For purposes of this chapter, any nuisance conditions which are
transient in nature but tend to reoccur repeatedly shall constitute an ongoing
nuisance and be treated as though the nuisance conditions were present
continuously. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-7: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Nothing contained in this chapter applies to prevent a lawfully
licensed premises operating within the scope of a license that specifically
permits that which is prohibited by this chapter.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter applies to prevent the lawful outside storage
of materials or things if:
      1.   The use is permitted under the applicable zoning laws and the use is
in compliance with the zoning law; or
      2.   If the use is permitted as a legal nonconforming use under the
applicable zoning, licensing, or other legislation.
   C.   Where the principal use of a property is wholesaling or retailing,
storing or parking of inoperative vehicles or dismantled materials or
equipment, all fences and screening surrounding such property shall be properly
maintained so as to screen the exterior property areas from view. (Ord. 2557,
12-19-2016)
5-3-8: INSPECTION:
When a city official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists a
nuisance on a given property or must confirm whether nuisance conditions have
been corrected, a city official shall have the right to enter upon the property
at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner in order to inspect the property
or take other action pursuant to this chapter.
   A.   The city official making entry shall:
      1.   If such building or premises is occupied, first present proper
credentials and demand entry; or
      2.   If such building or premises is unoccupied, first make reasonable
effort to locate the property agent and demand entry.
   B.   The city official making an inspection may take photos or record
videos, examine documents, require the production of documents and property for
the purposes of examination or making copies, and may take any other lawful
action to facilitate enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   A city official making an inspection may take any person, equipment,
machinery, apparatus, vehicle, material, or thing that the official deems
necessary to effectuate or assist in the inspection.
   D.   While a city official is conducting an inspection pursuant to this
section, no person shall:
      1.   Fail to comply with any reasonable request of the official;
      2.   Knowingly make any false or misleading statement to the official;
      3.   Unless authorized by the official, remove, alter, or interfere in
any way with anything seized, detained, or removed by the official; or
      4.   Obstruct or interfere with the official or a person assisting the
official. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-9: CITY ALTERNATIVES UPON IDENTIFYING NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
Upon initially identifying conditions constituting a nuisance, a city official
may take one or more of the following actions:
   A.   Issue a written courtesy warning to a property agent allowing up to ten
(10) business days to correct the nuisance conditions.
   B.   Issue a formal order to correct to a property agent.
   C.   Under certain circumstances, direct that the nuisance be abated
immediately.
   D.   Cause a citation to be issued to a property agent for a violation of
this chapter.
   E.   Refer the matter to the city attorney for appropriate legal action.
   F.   Take any other action available at law or in equity.
   G.   For purposes of this chapter, any and all property agents may be held
jointly responsible for maintaining a property, correcting nuisance conditions,
and for the cost of abatement under this chapter. In addition, any action taken
against one property agent for a property shall not bar action against other
property agents in relation to the same property nor shall such action
necessitate action against other property agents in relation to the same
property. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-10: ORDERS TO CORRECT:
An order to correct issued by a city official shall:
   A.   Specify the municipal address or legal description of the property.
   B.   State with specificity the conditions violating this chapter and list
the code section(s) violated.
   C.   Provide what actions must be taken to correct the conditions and the
time period in which the corrective action must be completed. Such time period
may later be extended by the city official, in writing, upon belief that a
property agent was unable to comply with the given time period for reasons
beyond their control but intends to comply within a reasonable time.
   D.   State that if compliance with the order is not affected as specified,
the city may take the actions or measures specified to remedy the violation at
the expense of the property agent, and if such person does not pay the cost of
abatement, the cost of abatement shall be charged against the property
concerned as a debt due to the city and recovered as taxes or assessments due
and owing in respect to that property.
   E.   State that if the city remedies the violation, any material being
removed to affect compliance with the order can be destroyed or, if in the
opinion of the city official, it has sufficient commercial value, sold and the
proceeds used to offset the cost of abatement.
   F.   State that the order to correct may be appealed within ten (10)
business days. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-11: SERVICE OF NECESSARY DOCUMENTS:
Documents that must be served, such as an order to correct or a notice of
hearing, shall be served as further provided:
   A.   Service may be affected by the document being:
      1.   Delivered personally to the person who is intended to be served,
      2.   Left with a person apparently over the age of eighteen (18) years at
the dwelling place or place of business of the person who is intended to be
served, or
      3.   Sent by registered or certified mail to the last known address of
the person who is intended to be served as shown on the assessment roles.
   B.   If a document is served by mail, the service shall be deemed to have
been made on the fourth day after the day of mailing of the order.
   C.   If, in the opinion of the city official, service under subsection A of
this section cannot reasonably be affected, the city official may place the
order on the front door of the property or in a receptacle for messages, if
any, on the property described in the order, or post the order in a conspicuous
place on the property, and such delivery or posting of the order shall have the
same legal effect as service under subsection A of this section as of the day
of delivery or posting. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-12: APPEALS:
   A.   Nuisance Appeal Board: A nuisance appeal board shall be established and
maintained to hear appeals from orders issued by a city official.
      1.   The board shall consist of five (5) members, who are residents of
the city of Mitchell, chosen by the mayor to serve three (3) year terms of
office. A quorum for any meeting shall be three (3) members.
      2.   The board shall adopt rules or procedure for hearing appeals.
   B.   Appeal Process:
      1.   A person wishing to appeal an order must submit notice of the appeal
in writing to the city finance officer within ten (10) business days of the
date on which the order was served.
      2.   Each notice of appeal shall be in writing and shall:
         a.   State the appellant's name, address, telephone number and the
interest of the appellant in the property;
         b.   Specifically state the grounds of the appeal; and
         c.   Be dated and signed by the appellant or an agent on his or her
behalf and, if signed by an agent, shall state the name, address and telephone
number of the agent.
      3.   Following the receipt of a notice of appeal, the city finance
officer shall, in writing, provide a notice of hearing to the appellant
including the date, time, and place at which the board will consider the
matter. If the appellant is not the person registered as the owner of the land
as shown on a current certificate of title, the city finance officer must also
send a copy of the written notice to that owner.
      4.   The appellant may appear before the board in person or by
representative.
      5.   The board shall consider each appeal having regard to the
circumstances and merits of the case and the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
      6.   When hearing an appeal, the board:
         a.   Shall not be bound by the technical rules of evidence; and
         b.   Shall afford to every person concerned the opportunity to be
heard, submit evidence, and to hear the evidence of others.
      7.   The board shall have full discretion to alter an order to correct to
any extent necessary in consideration of this chapter or to uphold or revoke an
order to correct in its entirety.
      8.   Following the appeal, the city finance officer shall forthwith serve
a copy of the board's decision on the appellant.
      9.   An appellant shall complete all actions directed in the board's
decision. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-13: REMEDIATION OPTIONS:
Upon a failure to correct nuisance conditions pursuant to a valid order to
correct or a decision from the nuisance board, the city may take one or more of
the following actions:
   A.   Proceed with an abatement of the nuisance. For matters with an
anticipated cost of abatement exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), the
council shall first authorize the abatement by resolution.
   B.   Prosecute a property agent for citations issued for violations of this
chapter.
   C.   Institute a civil action seeking an order of abatement, injunction, or
any other appropriate remedy against a property agent in violation of this
chapter.
   D.   Regardless of the option chosen by city, the cost of abatement shall be
a debt owed to the city by the property agent or owner and any such costs shall
be itemized to the extent possible. Such amount shall be recoverable from
property agent or owner and if not paid within thirty (30) days after mailing
of such an invoice may be assessed, levied, and collected as a special
assessment against the property pursuant to state law. Any such amount shall be
separate and independent from any fines or penalties that may be imposed for a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-14: ABATEMENT:
   A.   When the city acts to abate a nuisance pursuant to this chapter, all
city employees, or their designated agents, shall take all reasonable actions
necessary to correct the nuisance conditions but only as to those nuisance
conditions contained in an order to correct or a nuisance board decision.
   B.   Any materials removed from the premises during such abatement may be
disposed of by the city where the city official is of the opinion that the
material removed is of insignificant or no value. If any of the material being
removed appears, in the opinion of the city official, to have commercial value,
he or she may cause it to be sold and the net proceeds used to offset the cost
of abatement.
   C.   No city employee, or designated agent, may proceed with an abatement if
there exists an imminent threat of a breach of peace. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-15: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
If a city official believes that nuisance conditions pose a great and imminent
danger to any person(s) or to the health and safety of the community, then the
city official shall take immediate action to eliminate the nuisance conditions
causing the imminent danger. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-16: OFFENSES AND PENALTY:
   A.   Every person is guilty of an offense under this chapter, and thereby
subject to the general penalty provision in section
1-4-1 of this code, who:
      1.   Violates any of the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Suffers or permits any act or thing to be done in contravention or
in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      3.   Neglects to do or refrains from doing anything required to be done
by the provisions of this chapter;
      4.   Does any act which violates any provision of this chapter;
      5.   Fails to comply with any order, direction or notice given under this
chapter; or
      6.   Breaches the peace, attempts to breach the peace, or otherwise
obstructs any person authorized to carry out any lawful duty under this chapter
by use of force, threat of force, or other means.
   B.   Each day that a violation remains shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   A conviction for an offense for failing to comply with an order does
not relieve the person convicted from complying with the order, and the judge
may in addition to any fine and/or jail sentence imposed, order the person to
do any act or work, within a specified time, to comply with the order with
respect to which the person was convicted.
   D.   No owner or property agent of any property who has received an order to
correct, citation, or other notice relating to ongoing nuisance conditions on
such property shall sell, transfer, gift, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose
of such property to another unless:
      1.   The nuisance conditions are corrected prior to any such disposition
of the property; or
      2.   The owner or property agent provides, prior to any such disposition
of the property, to the code enforcement officer a signed and notarized
statement from the grantee, transferee, recipient, mortgagee, or lessee,
acknowledging the property's nuisance conditions and fully accepting
responsibility without condition for making the corrections or repairs required
to correct the nuisance conditions.
   E.   The imposition of a penalty under this chapter shall not be a bar to
further prosecution under this chapter and shall not be construed so as to
exclude any other remedies or sanctions, either criminal or civil, elsewhere
provided by law, including prosecution under South Dakota Codified Laws 22-11-
3 and 22-36-1. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-17: LIABILITY:
The city, city employees, or any other person who carries out any duties or
performs work on behalf of the city in administering or enforcing this chapter
is not liable for any damages caused by the inspection, the duties or work, the
sale or disposing of anything, or any other lawful action necessary to carry
out the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-18: PENDING NUISANCE ACTIONS AT TIME OF PASSAGE AND PRIOR ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Any nuisance actions pending at the time of passage of this revision to
the nuisance code shall not be in any way dropped, canceled, delayed, or waived
by the passage of this revision and may continue in their normal course until
resolved.
   B.   All nuisances as described in this revision shall be subject to this
chapter whether or not the offending act, use, activity, circumstance, or
condition was previously regulated as a nuisance. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
5-3-19: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid, unenforceable, or unconstitutional by a decision of any
authority or court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this code and the remainder shall
remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 2557, 12-19-2016)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE, REFUSE AND WEEDS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Rules And Regulations
5-4-2: Sanitation Fund
5-4-3: Inspections
5-4-4: Burning Restrictions
5-4-5: Violations And Penalties
5-4-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Rules and regulations deemed necessary for the proper operation and enforcement
of this chapter shall be made by the city council. (1984 Code § 30-3)
5-4-2: SANITATION FUND:
A fund to be known as the sanitation fund shall be established for accounting
purposes within the general fund of the city. All money and credits collected
under this chapter, including fines and fees for violations of the same, shall
be credited to the sanitation fund.
The sanitation fund shall be used exclusively for sanitation purposes and
specifically to defray the operating costs and expenses, construction of
additions to the disposal area, purchase of equipment, payment of interest and
principal of sanitation bonds and to create a reserve fund to be used for
equipment replacements and department enlargement. (1984 Code § 30-4)
5-4-3: INSPECTIONS:
The proper city official shall periodically make inspections of all alleyways,
buildings and premises and, if a violation of provisions of this chapter is
found, he shall notify, in writing, the owner, tenant or agent of such premises
of such violation, and such owner, tenant or agent shall have ten (10) days in
which to correct the violation. (1984 Code § 30-5)
5-4-4: BURNING RESTRICTIONS:
No burning of rubbish or leaves shall be permitted within the city limits
except in approved incinerators or with written permit issued by the fire
department. (1984 Code § 30-2; amd. 2005 Code)
5-4-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon the conviction thereof, shall be fined as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day that any such person shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense and be
punishable as such. (1984 Code § 30-6; amd. 2005 Code)
ARTICLE A. GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Definitions
5-4A-2: Storage Restrictions
5-4A-3: Residential Collection And Disposal
5-4A-4: Private Collection And Hauling
5-4A-5: Sanitary Landfill Area
5-4A-6: Littering
5-4A-7: Metal Refuse Containers In Right Of Way Restricted
5-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
BOARDING AND ROOMING HOUSE: Those premises where meals and sleeping facilities,
or either of them, are provided to any person or persons, including the
operator's family, on a weekly or other basis.
CERTIFIED FREON CARRYING WHITE GOODS: White goods which have been mechanically
cleared of freon by a technician who is certified by the city or state. Upon
clearing a white good, the technician shall place a permanent label on the face
of the white good. The label shall carry the statement "freon free", the name
of the firm which removed the freon, shall be red and shall be approximately
three inches by six inches (3" x 6") in size.
CUBIC YARD (C.Y. or Cu. Yd.): Cubic yard shall be calculated by the following
formula (for cubical volumes): [length (feet) x width (feet) x height (feet)/
27].
GARBAGE: All animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, cooking
and consumption of foods originating in kitchens, stores, markets, restaurants,
hotels and other places where food is stored, cooked and consumed.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE: Those premises providing individual living quarters
for more than one family with full kitchen facilities for each such family
residing therein.
OCCUPANT: The person that has the use of or occupies any building or lot or a
portion thereof, whether the actual owner, tenant or subtenant. In the case of
vacant buildings or lots or any portion thereof, the owner, agent or other
person having custody of the building or lot shall have the responsibility of
the occupant of the building or lot.
OWNER: The actual owner of the building, the agent of the owner in charge of
the building or the person to whom the rental upon the building is paid.
PREMISES: Business houses, boarding houses, offices, theaters, hotels,
restaurants, cafes, eating houses, tourist courts, apartment buildings,
sanitariums, rooming houses, schools, rest homes, private residences, vacant
lots and other places within the city where refuse, either garbage or rubbish,
accumulates.
REFUSE: All solid wastes including garbage and rubbish.
REGULATION REFUSE CONTAINER: A container, made of polymers and of nominal
sizes, which has an attached lid and wheels and is designed for use with
automated garbage collection equipment used by the city. Said container shall
be furnished or approved by the city sanitation division.
RUBBISH: All combustible and noncombustible waste materials from households,
stores and institutions, consisting of tin cans, bottles, papers, straw,
leaves, ashes, lawn cuttings and tree limbs from any premises within the city.
SEPARATED TRASH AND GARBAGE: Waste which has been separated prior to entering
the landfill premises. Separation shall be into different classifications of
trash and waste as may be deemed necessary by the sanitation superintendent.
Classifications shall include: nonhazardous household and commercial waste,
yard waste, tires, rubble, trees, white goods, steel, building debris, and
classifications shall be based upon whether the goods are allowed on the site
and where on the site goods are to be accepted.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE: The premises providing living quarters for one family
including full kitchen facilities for such singular family.
TONNAGE: Tonnage or portion thereof shall be as determined by the landfill
attendant using an approved scale.
YARD WASTE: Shall include the following materials: grass clippings, leaves,
garden waste, vegetable and fruit waste, sawdust, manure, chipped trees only as
accepted by the superintendent. Yard waste shall not include whole trees, limbs
or branches larger than one-half inch (1/2"), inorganic material, material
deemed to have a high weed content. (1984 Code § 30-7; amd. Ord. 1690, 3-4-
1991; Ord. 1935, 4-19-1999; Ord. 2093, 7-21-2003; 2005 Code)
5-4A-2: STORAGE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Containers Required: The tenant, occupant or person in charge of any
residence, apartment, rooming house or business establishment shall place and
keep in the containers provided for in this article, all garbage which may
accumulate or originate on the premises. (1984 Code § 30-10)
   B.   Refuse Containers For Residences:
      1.   Every tenant, occupant or person in possession of any residence,
apartment or rooming house in the city shall maintain and provide for use in
connection therewith one or more regulation refuse containers as may be
necessary to hold the accumulating garbage therefrom between collection
periods. Such regulation refuse containers may be kept and maintained at a
place on the premises near the adjoining alley; except, where there is no
alley, they shall be kept elsewhere on the premises not in the front yard and
not adjacent to the street adjoining the premises unless the containers are
kept within a secure enclosure which wholly shields the containers from public
visibility. Any such refuse containers not kept and maintained near the
adjoining alley or street shall be placed near the adjoining street or alley
for pick up by the city sanitation service on such days as the residence is
serviced by the city sanitation service and shall be removed from the street to
their usual place of storage out of the front yard and away from the adjoining
street as soon as practical after the refuse has been picked up by the
sanitation service.
      2.   In no event shall any refuse container be allowed to remain in view
near the adjoining street or in the front yard of any residence at any time
other than during the day that said residence is serviced by the city
sanitation department. For purposes of this subsection, in respect to the
property adjoining Lake Mitchell, the street side portion of each lot shall be
deemed to be the front yard of each such lot or parcel of property.
      3.   All such regulation refuse containers shall be kept and maintained
within secure storage racks or holders wherein the said containers shall be
secured in such a manner that they cannot be upset by dogs or any other
animals. The refuse containers shall be covered at all times.
      4.   The representative, officer or employee of the city charged with the
responsibility of garbage collection may, in his discretion, accept and collect
garbage placed for collection in nonmetal containers; provided, that said
nonmetal container is of sufficient strength and has a tight fitting lid such
that the nonmetal container is substantially similar in structure and function
to a regulation refuse container. (Ord. 1687, 2-4-1991)
   C.   Commercial Refuse Containers: Every owner or person in charge of any
restaurant, hotel, grocery, store, wholesale or food processing establishment
or any other business or commercial place having garbage or rubbish shall
furnish and provide for use in connection therewith, a garbage or refuse
container large enough to hold one day's accumulation of such material. Such
container shall be constructed of metal or masonry, shall have metal covers for
all openings and shall be emptied often enough to prevent the same from giving
off any odor or stench. (1984 Code § 30-9)
   D.   Container Use Regulations: All garbage containers shall be kept and
maintained in use in accordance with the following regulations:
      1.   Garbage containers shall be provided with tightly fitting covers
which shall be removed only when necessary.
      2.   No liquids or water shall be placed in refuse containers.
      3.   No refuse container shall be located where water from an adjoining
roof may fall thereon.
      4.   The vicinity of refuse containers shall be kept free from garbage
and other putrescible matter that attracts flies or vermin.
      5.   Only "garbage" and "rubbish" as defined in this article shall be
placed in refuse containers.
      6.   The weight of container and contents shall not exceed seventy (70)
pounds. (1984 Code § 30-11)
   E.   Storage Of Unusual Items:
      1.   All ordinary accumulations of rubbish such as tree limbs or scrap
lumber, which cannot be conveniently placed in the containers, shall be
gathered together, tied or stacked into compact bundles by the premises
occupant and placed in a location easily accessible to the collector. A
reasonable amount of material such as scrap lumber and firewood may be stored
on the premises, but it shall be packed and stacked eighteen inches (18") above
the ground.
      2.   Ashes and other such refuse shall be placed in containers having a
capacity not to exceed ten (10) gallons. All coals or glowing embers must be
extinguished and ashes cool before setting out for pick up.
      3.   Cardboard boxes, wastepaper and like materials shall be flattened
and tied in bundles until pick up. (1984 Code § 30-12)
5-4A-3: RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL 1 :
The city shall endeavor to provide service for the collection from the
residential areas of the city, not less than once weekly, of all garbage and
rubbish; provided, that it shall be the duty of the person in possession or
control of any premises to place the containers required under this article in
a location easily accessible for the collector as directed by the proper city
official. (Ord. 1707, 11-18-1991)
   A.   Rates And Charges:
      1.   Rates And Charges Established:
         a.   Monthly Rates: Where garbage and rubbish are deposited in
regulation containers and collected by city forces, there shall be charged,
assessed and collected from each premises, without exception within the city,
those fees established from time to time by resolution of the city council.
All separate dwelling units including single-family residences, multiple-family
residences and boarding houses shall be charged for service as provided by
resolution of the city council unless proof of collection service by a licensed
provider is produced. (Ord. 1935, 4-19-1999)
         b.   Additional Containers: Additionally, customers may request
additional containers. Additional garbage containers requested for the same
billing address will be billed at a rate equal to fifty percent (50%) of the
cost of the first container at that location. (Ord. 1935, 4-19-1999; amd. Ord.
2086, 5-19-2003)
         c.   Compost Generating Materials: For customers requesting pick up of
leaves, lawn clippings and other compost generating materials:
Regulation containers for compost materials may be acquired from the city
sanitation division for the fee established from time to time by resolution of
the city council. The fee for the collection of compost shall be set from time
to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2245, 5-21-2007)
         d.   Commercial Accounts: Commercial customers shall provide or
request the hauler to provide a dumpster. City rate for dumping commercial
dumpsters shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
         e.   Commercial Garbage At Residences: The City Street and Sanitation
Superintendent shall refuse commercial garbage at residential accounts, except
that the Superintendent may place dumpsters temporarily for single job
purposes. Such placements shall be subject to commercial rates.
         f.   Recycling Program: In addition to the above fees, fees
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council shall be
collected from all separate dwellings including each single-family residence,
each unit in a multiple-family residence and each two (2) beds, or fraction
thereof, in a boarding or rooming house, with the proceeds thereof to be
applied by the City to defray the costs and expenses of the recycling program
instituted in the City. (Ord. 1935, 4-19-1999)
      2.   Billing And Collection For Disposal Service: The person residing in
or on the premises served shall be liable for the payment of the applicable
charges, but to facilitate collection thereof, the person in whose name the
water service is charged shall be billed therefor and shall pay it with the
water bill if such bill is sent, otherwise on a separate statement, and payment
shall be made at the Office of the Finance Officer.
Payment shall become delinquent ten (10) days after the end of the period in
which such service is billed, and if an account is not paid before it becomes
delinquent, the City may discontinue the service for the person owing such
delinquent account and not resume collection service until such account has
been paid in full. Nonpayment of account may be deemed nonpayment of the City
utility charge which includes sewer and water, and the provisions provided for
nonpayment of water bill or sewer bill may be utilized to enforce payment.
(1984 Code § 30-22)
   B.   Disposal Sites: The City shall endeavor to dispose of all garbage and
rubbish collected by an approved method of sanitary landfill and cover or other
methods approved at such site as selected and approved by the City Council and
the proper City official. (1984 Code § 30-19)
No dumping of garbage or rubbish shall be at any other place than that
designated by the City Council and approved by the proper City official.
However, the Public Works Department may designate drop off areas where certain
types of materials may be dumped. The Public Works Department shall establish
and post rules for such drop off areas. (1984 Code § 30-19; amd. Ord. O2018-11,
10-1-2018)
Any person violating said rules shall be subject to the general penalty
provision under section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition to or instead of such general penalty, any
person violating said rules shall be responsible for the cost of clean-up for
the improper dumping plus an administrative fee in an amount to be set by the
City Council by resolution, the total of which shall be assessed against and
collected from the violator in like manner as other nuisances. (Ord. O2018-11,
10-1-2018)
   C.   Excessive Accumulations: The places or premises of excessive
accumulations of garbage and rubbish, such as killing or dressing plants or
fowl, are to be excluded from the service provided by the City Garbage
Department. Such accumulations shall be removed and disposed of at the expense
of the owner or person having the same in charge. The owner shall secure from
the proper City authority a written permit for removal and disposal of the
same. Such permit shall be issued only after the proper City official has
satisfied himself that the licensee is capable of complying with the
requirements of this article. The permit may be revoked by the City when deemed
necessary to the public welfare.
   D.   Heavy Accumulations: Heavy accumulations such as brush, broken
concrete, ashes, sand or gravel, automobile frames, dead trees and other bulky,
heavy materials shall be disposed of at the expense of the owner or person
controlling same under the direction of the proper City official.
   E.   Manure And Waste Oil Disposal: Manure from cow lots, horse stables,
poultry yards, pigeon lofts and other animal or fowl pens and waste oils from
garages and service stations shall be removed and disposed of at the expense of
the persons controlling the same, the manner and by the method directed by the
proper City official. (1984 Code § 30-17)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsections 5-5-4B6, B7 and B8 of this title.
5-4A-4: PRIVATE COLLECTION AND HAULING:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the business of collecting
or hauling garbage or rubbish from any place in the City without first having
been granted a license to do so by the City Council. (1984 Code § 30-13)
   B.   Application For License; Inspection Of Vehicles: Any person desiring to
engage in the business of collecting or hauling garbage or rubbish in the City
shall make application to the proper City official for the license required by
this section and shall specifically agree to comply with all of the provisions
of this Code, or other ordinances of the City and the Statutes of the State.
The proper City official shall inspect all vehicles to be used by such
applicant and, if found to comply with this Code or other ordinances, may
recommend to the City Council that a license be issued to the applicant as a
hauler of garbage or as a hauler of rubbish or both. He shall attach to each
approved vehicle a certificate attesting to such inspection and approval, which
certificate shall contain any use restrictions or conditions deemed necessary
in the safeguarding of the health and sanitation of the City by such proper
City official. No licensee shall use in his business any vehicle unless the
same has been inspected and approved by such proper City official. (1984 Code §
30-14)
   C.   Requirements For Hauling Garbage: No person shall haul any garbage
unless the vehicle in which the same is transported is equipped with a covered
box. The floor and all four (4) sides of the same shall be a height of at least
six inches (6") from the floor, shall be watertight and so arranged as not to
permit, at any time or place, any of the garbage so hauled to fall out or leak
or escape from the vehicle in which it is being conveyed. Such box shall be
cleaned and sanitized with an accepted sanitizing agent after each load hauled
or at the end of each day, whichever is least frequent; provided, that in the
discretion of the proper City official, the use of watertight steel barrels
equipped with tight metal covers may be substituted for the watertight box
hereinbefore provided for. Such barrels and the use thereof shall be subject to
all the other requirements for a watertight box herein contained. (1984 Code §
30-15)
   D.   Requirements For Hauling Rubbish: No person shall haul any rubbish
unless the vehicle in which the same is transported is equipped with a box
entirely and permanently enclosed so as to prevent, at all times and places any
of the rubbish so hauled from falling, blowing or escaping from the vehicle in
which it is transported. (1984 Code § 30-16)
5-4A-5: SANITARY LANDFILL AREA:
   A.   Use Of Sanitary Landfill: All loads of garbage and rubbish shall be
dumped in the area where and as directed by the City employees in charge of the
sanitary landfill area. Refusal to do so shall be cause for such person being
prohibited from using the sanitary landfill area as a place for garbage and
rubbish disposal in the future. Such on the spot prohibition shall be invoked
by the City personnel in charge of the sanitary landfill area at the time, with
written report of the incident to be filed in the Office of the Finance Officer
for information and review by the City Council. Appeal from prohibition to
dispose of garbage and rubbish may be made to the City Council who will, alone,
have the authority to rescind such prohibition. (1984 Code § 30-20)
   B.   Disposal Rates: Except as otherwise provided, for disposal of garbage
and rubbish at the landfill hauled to the area by an individual or private
hauler or any other person other than employees of the City in City vehicles,
charges established from time to time by resolution of the City Council shall
be assessed, charged and collected from such haulers, firms and individuals, by
the landfill attendant.
      1.   All loads are subject to inspection for compliance with Federal,
State and local regulations, and all buried wastes will be subject to
additional State and County fees.
      2.   The Superintendent may refuse to take yard waste in the compost pile
for any reason. Material which is otherwise accepted for disposal is subject to
the same charges as for household and commercial trash and garbage. (Ord. 2093,
7-21-2003)
5-4A-6: LITTERING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person within the City limits to wilfully
throw, drop or otherwise deposit on any street or property within the City,
except in a duly designated receptacle, litter of any kind, character or
description.
"Litter", within the meaning of this subsection, shall constitute paper, bags,
food substances, plastic, rope, rubber, glass, metal or any items composed of
any of the preceding named materials or any rubbish of any other kind. (1984
Code § 25-34)
   B.   No person shall place, throw or deposit or cause, suffer or permit to
be placed, thrown or deposited any garbage or rubbish on any street, alley or
public ground in the City except in containers approved by this article. (1984
Code § 30-1)
   C.   No person shall place, throw, or deposit, or cause, suffer, or permit
to be placed, thrown, or deposited, any yard waste, branches, garbage, or
rubbish in any public body of water or on the banks thereof. (Ord. 2540, 5-16-
2016)
5-4A-7: METAL REFUSE CONTAINERS IN RIGHT OF WAY RESTRICTED:
   A.   No party responsible for a metal refuse container shall place, cause to
be placed, or allow to remain any metal refuse container in the public right of
way unless the corners and edges of such metal refuse container are marked with
reflective material so as to be plainly visible from a distance of not less
than two hundred feet (200').
   B.   The party responsible for a metal refuse container placed in the right
of way must inhibit such container from moving unintentionally and place such
container in a manner that does not create an obstruction to pedestrian or
vehicle traffic.
   C.   The director of public works is authorized to require the immediate
removal of a metal refuse container in the public right of way if, in the
director's discretion, the metal refuse container has remained at a location
for longer than necessary to complete a waste disposal project. The party
responsible for the metal refuse container will be provided written notice by
city staff to remove the metal refuse container by a given date and time.
Failure to remove a metal refuse container by the date and time set in the
notice shall be deemed a violation of the ordinance and shall also be grounds
for the city to remove the metal refuse container and charge the costs of such
removal to the party responsible for such metal refuse container.
   D.   For purposes of this section, the party responsible for a metal refuse
container can be more than one person and may include, but is not limited to,
the person/company who owns the container, the person/company who ordered the
container, or the person/company who placed the container. (Ord. O2020-05, 5-4-
2020)
ARTICLE B. WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4B-1: Nuisance Declared
5-4B-2: Abatement Procedures
5-4B-3: Weed Removal Fund
5-4B-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
It shall be the duty of the occupant, person in charge of or owner of any lot
in the city to keep such lot free from noxious vegetation or overgrown
vegetation which is unsightly and/or likely to harbor rats or vermin and to cut
or effectively spray with herbicide such noxious vegetation at such time as may
be necessary to prevent its growth. (1984 Code § 30-25)
5-4B-2: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice To Cut: The director of public works may, at the beginning of or
during the growing season, by general public notice to each occupant, person in
charge or owner of any lot, require all weeds and noxious vegetation upon any
lot to be cut and removed within five (5) days after the giving of such notice.
Such notice need not be given personally but may be given generally by
publication in the official newspaper once a week for two (2) successive weeks.
The notice shall provide that each occupant, person in charge or owner of any
lot shall cut and keep cut or otherwise destroyed, at all times during the
growing season following, all weeds and noxious vegetation, and shall further
provide that in case of failure to cut or destroy such weeds and noxious
vegetation, the city will cause the same to be cut and assess the cost thereof,
including the cost of levying such special assessment, against the property
benefited. The occupant, person in charge or owner shall, within five (5) days
after publication of such notice and at all times subsequent during the growing
season as may be necessary, cut and keep cut all noxious vegetation. (1984 Code
§ 30-26)
   B.   Removal By City: If the occupant, person in charge or owner of any lot
fails to cut or otherwise destroy weeds and noxious vegetation upon any such
lot as required, the city shall cause such weeds and noxious vegetation to be
cut and, for such purpose, may enter upon any such lot or parcel of land. The
city may cause property to be leveled or filled and junk and debris removed
therefrom, if required, to allow the cutting or destruction of the weeds or
noxious vegetation, and the cost thereof shall be included in the regular weed
cutting assessment. The city may contract with private persons or concerns to
accomplish the removal of weeds and noxious vegetation as required by this
article. (1984 Code § 30-27)
   C.   Special Assessment For City Removal 1 :
      1.   Costs Recorded: The city shall cause an account to be kept against
each lot for cutting of weeds and noxious vegetation during the growing season
of each year, and the same shall be certified to the finance officer.
      2.   Estimate Of Assessment: The finance officer shall prepare an
estimate of the assessment against each lot for the cutting of weeds and
noxious vegetation for the preceding growing season, including therein the
expense of levying such special assessment against each lot. Such estimate
shall be submitted to the city council for its approval.
      3.   Publication Of Assessments And Review Date: The finance officer
shall cause to be published in the official newspaper the assessment roll
together with a notice of the time and place when the city council will meet
for the purpose of considering such assessment roll. Such notice shall be
published once a week for two (2) successive weeks prior to the date of the
hearing.
      4.   City Council Review Of Estimate: Upon the date so named, the city
council shall meet, and if it finds the estimate correct, it shall approve the
same by resolution, or if not correct, it shall correct or modify the same and
approve the same as modified or corrected and file such assessment roll with
the finance officer.
      5.   Lien: From the date of the approval and filing of such assessment
roll with the finance officer, the same shall become a special lien against the
various pieces of property described in the assessment roll and shall be
collected in like manner as special assessments for public improvements are now
collected, and all such assessments remaining unpaid by October 31 of each year
shall be certified to the county and shall be collected by the county in the
manner provided by law for the collection of municipal assessments by the
county 2 . (1984 Code § 30-28)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 9-38-29.
2 2. SDCL § 9-27-2 et seq.
5-4B-3: WEED REMOVAL FUND:
The city council may provide in the annual appropriation ordinance for a fund
to be expended under the direction of the director of public works, in the
cutting and removal of weeds and noxious vegetation as provided for in this
article. All money collected for expense of cutting weeds and noxious
vegetation pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be credited to such
fund. This fund may be joint with any fund established for sidewalk snow
removal. (1984 Code § 30-29)
CHAPTER 5
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-5-1: Policy And Purpose
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Sound Level Measurements
5-5-4: Prohibited Noises
5-5-5: Use District Noise Levels
5-5-6: Motor Vehicle Noise
5-5-7: City Contracts And Purchases
5-5-8: Relief From Provisions; Exemptions
5-5-9: Enforcement
5-5-10: Violations And Penalties
5-5-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
Because the making and creation of excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud
noises within the limits of the city is a condition which has existed for some
time, and the extent and magnitude of such noises is increasing; and the
making, creation or maintenance of such excessive, unnecessary or unusually
loud noises which are prolonged, unusual or unreasonable in their time, place
and use affect and are a detriment to public health, comfort, convenience,
safety and welfare of the residents of the city; it is therefore declared
necessary and as a matter of public policy and in the promotion of the public
health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and the peace and quiet of the
inhabitants of the city for the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter
contained to be enacted. (1984 Code § 23A-1)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain words and phrases used herein are
defined as follows, and if not defined herein, shall be in conformance with
applicable American National Standards Institute publication, including but not
limited to ANSI 1-1960 or those from its successor publications or bodies:
(1984 Code §§ 23A-3, 23A-10)
A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL: The sound level as measured with a sound level meter
using the A-weighting network. The standard notation is dB(A) or dBA.
AMBIENT SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: The sound pressure level of the all encompassing
noise associated with a given environment usually a composite of sounds from
many sources. It is also the A-weighted sound pressure level exceeded ninety
percent (90%) of the time based on a measurement period of not less than ten
(10) minutes nor more than thirty (30) minutes.
CONTINUOUS SOUND: Any sound which exists, essentially without interruption, for
a period of ten (10) minutes or more.
CYCLICALLY VARYING NOISE: Any sound which varies in sound level such that the
same level is obtained repetitively at reasonably uniform intervals of time.
DECIBEL (dB): Logarithmic and dimensionless unit of measure used in describing
the amplitude of sound.
DEVICE: Any mechanism which is intended to produce or which actually produces
noise when operated or handled.
DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE: (Commonly referred to as Jacob's brake). A device used
primarily on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an internal
combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of braking without the
use of wheel brakes.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle used in response to a public calamity or to
protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
EMERGENCY WORK: Work made necessary to restore property or a public utility to
a safe condition following a public calamity or work required to protect
persons or property from an eminent exposure to danger.
IMPULSIVE NOISE: A noise containing excursions, usually less than one second,
of sound levels of twenty (20) dB(A) or more over the ambient sound level using
the fast meter characteristic.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled by mechanical power,
including but not limited to passenger cars, trucks, truck trailers,
semitrailers, campers, motorcycles, minibikes, go-carts, mopeds and racing
vehicles.
MUFFLER: An apparatus consisting of a series of chambers of baffle plates
designed for the purpose of transmitting gases while reducing sound emanating
from such apparatus.
NOISE: Any sound which is unwanted or which causes or tends to cause an adverse
psychological or physiological effect on human beings.
NOISE DISTURBANCE: Any sound which annoys or disturbs reasonable persons with
normal sensitivities or which injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
hearing, peace or safety of other persons.
PERCENTILE SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: Tenth Percentile Noise Level (L10): The A-
weighted sound pressure level that is exceeded ten percent (10%) of the time in
any measurement period (such as the level that is exceeded for 1 minute in a 10
minute period).
Ninetieth Percentile Noise Level (L90): The A-weighted sound pressure level
that is exceeded ninety percent (90%) of the time in any measurement period
(such as the level that is exceeded for 9 minutes in a 10 minute period).
PERSON: Any human being, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust, corporation, company, contractor, supplier, installer, user,
owner or operator, including any municipal corporation or its officers or
employees.
PLAINLY AUDIBLE NOISE: Any noise for which the information content of that
noise is unambiguously transferred to the listener, such as but not limited to
understanding of spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised or
normal or comprehension of musical rhythms.
PROPERTY BOUNDARY: An imaginary line exterior to any enclosed structure, at the
ground surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real property
owned by one person from that owned by another person.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway or alley or similar
place which is owned or controlled by a public governmental entity.
PURE TONE: Any sound which can be distinctly heard as a single pitch or a set
of single pitches. For the purposes of measurement, a "pure tone" shall exist
if the one-third (1/3) octave band sound pressure level in the bank with the
tone exceeds the arithmetic average of the sound pressure levels of the two (2)
contiguous one-third (1/3) octave bands by five (5) dB for center frequencies
of five hundred (500) Hz and above, by eight (8) dB for center frequencies
between one hundred sixty (160) and four hundred (400) Hz and by fifteen (15)
dB for center frequencies less than or equal to one hundred twenty five (125)
Hz.
REPETITIVE IMPULSIVE NOISE: Any noise which is composed of impulsive noises
that are repeated at sufficiently slow rates such that a sound level meter set
at "fast" meter characteristic will show changes in sound pressure level
greater than ten (10) dB(A).
SOUND: Mechanical energy transmitted by a cyclic series of compressions and
rarefaction of molecules of that material or materials through which it passes.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument, including a microphone, amplifier, RMS
detector and integrator or time averager, output meter and/or visual display
and weighting networks, used to measure sound levels. The sound level meter
shall conform as a minimum to the requirements of ANSI S 1.4 - 1971 type 2 or
its successor publication and shall be set to an A-weighted response. An
acoustical calibrator accurate to within plus or minus one decibel shall be
used to verify the before and after calibration of the sound level meter on
each day noise measurements are taken.
SOUND PRESSURE: The instantaneous difference between the actual pressure and
the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space, as produced by
sound.
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL (Lp or SPL): Twenty (20) times the logarithm to the base
ten (10) of the ratio of the RMS sound pressure to the reference pressure of
twenty (20) micropascals.
STATIONARY NOISE SOURCE: Any device, fixed or movable, including motor
vehicles, which is located or used on property other than a public right of
way.
STEADY NOISE: A sound pressure level which remains essentially constant during
the period of observation, i.e., does not vary more than six (6) dB(A) when
measured with the "slow" meter characteristic of a sound level meter.
USE DISTRICT: Those districts established by the Mitchell zoning ordinance 1 .
(1984 Code § 23A-11)
 
Notes
1 1. Title 10 of this code.
5-5-3: SOUND LEVEL MEASUREMENTS:
Sound level measurements shall be made with a sound level meter type II or
better using the "A" weighted scale in accordance and conforming with the
standards promulgated by the American National Standards Institute. (1984 Code
§ 23A-6)
5-5-4: PROHIBITED NOISES:
   A.   General Prohibitions: In addition to the specific prohibitions outlined
in subsection B of this section and sections
5-5-5 and
5-5-10 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue
or cause to be made or continued any noise disturbance within the limits of the
city.
   B.   Specific Prohibitions: The following acts are declared to be in
violation of this chapter:
      1.   Horns And Signaling Devices: Sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any truck, automobile, motorcycle, emergency vehicle or other vehicle
on any street or public place therein, except as a danger warning signal as
provided in the vehicle code of the state or the sounding of any such signaling
device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      2.   Radios, Television Sets, Musical Instruments And Similar Devices:
         a.   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation of any radio
receiving set, musical instrument, television, phonograph, drum or other
machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound, except as
provided for in subsection B3 of this section, in such a manner as to violate
section
5-5-5 of this chapter or cause a noise disturbance.
         b.   The operating of any such device between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day in such a
manner as to be plainly audible at the property boundary of the source or
plainly audible at fifty feet (50') from such device when operated in or on a
vehicle on a public right of way or public space or in a boat on public water.
      3.   Public Loudspeakers: Using or operating a loudspeaker or sound
amplifying equipment in a fixed or movable position or mounted upon any sound
vehicle in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park place or public property
for the purpose of commercial advertising, giving instructions, directions,
talks, addresses, lectures or transmitting music to any persons or assemblages
of persons in such a manner as to violate section
5-5-5 of this chapter or cause a noise disturbance unless a permit, as provided
by subsection
5-5-8A of this chapter is first obtained.
      4.   Hawkers And Peddlers 1 : Selling anything by outcry (vocal,
electrical or mechanical amplification) within any area of the city therein
zoned primarily for residential uses in such a manner as to violate section
5-5-5 of this chapter or cause a noise disturbance. The provisions of this
section shall not be construed to prohibit the selling by outcry of
merchandise, food and beverages at licensed sporting events, parades, fairs,
circuses and other similar licensed public entertainment events.
      5.   Animals: Owning, keeping, possession or harboring any animal which,
by request or habitual noisemaking, violates section
5-5-5 of this chapter or causes a noise disturbance 2 . The provisions of this
section shall apply to all private and public facilities including any animal
pounds, which hold or treat animals.
      6.   Loading Operation: Loading, unloading, opening or otherwise handling
boxes, crates, containers, garbage containers 3  or other objects between the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following
day in such manner as to violate section
5-5-5 of this chapter or cause a noise disturbance.
      7.   Refuse Compacting Vehicles: The operating or causing or permitting
to be operated or used any refuse compacting vehicles which create a sound
pressure level in excess of seventy four (74) Db(A) at fifty feet (50') from
the vehicle.
      8.   Garbage Collection: The collection of garbage, waste or refuse
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the
following day:
         a.   In any area zoned residential, or within three hundred feet
(300') of an area zoned residential.
         b.   In any land use district so as to cause a noise disturbance.
      9.   Construction Work: Operating or causing to be used or operated any
equipment used in construction, repair, alteration or demolition work on
buildings, structures, streets, alleys or appurtenances thereto:
         a.   In residential or commercial land use districts between the hours
of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day.
         b.   In any land use district where such operation exceeds the sound
level limits for an industrial land use as set forth in section
5-5-5 of this chapter.
      10.   Domestic Power Equipment: Operating or permitting to be operated
any power equipment used for home or building repair or grounds maintenance,
including but not limited to power saw, sander, lawn mower or garden equipment
in residential or commercial zones:
         a.   Outdoors between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M the following day.
         b.   Any such power equipment which emits a sound level in excess of
seventy four (74) dB(A) measured at a distance of fifty feet (50').
      11.   Commercial Power Equipment: Operating or permitting to be operated
any power equipment, except construction equipment used for construction
activities including, but not limited to, chain saws, pavement breakers, log
chippers, powered hand tools:
         a.   In residential or commercial land use districts between the hours
of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of the following day.
         b.   In any land use district if such equipment emits a sound pressure
level in excess of eighty two (82) dB(A) measured at a distance of fifty feet
(50').
      12.   Enclosed Place Of Public Entertainment: Operating or permitting to
be operated in any place of public entertainment any loudspeaker or other
source of sound which produces, at a point that is normally occupied by a
customer, maximum sound levels of ninety (90) dB(A) or greater as read with the
slow response on a sound level meter unless a conspicuous and legible sign at
least two hundred twenty five (225) square inches in area is posted near each
public entrance stating: "Warning: Sound Levels Within May Cause Hearing
Impairment". This provision shall not be construed to allow the operation of
any loudspeaker or other source of sound in such a manner as to violate section
5-5-5 of this chapter.
      13.   Fireworks Or Explosives 4 : The use of explosives or fireworks or
the firing of guns or other explosive devices so as to be audible across a
property boundary or on a public space or right of way without first obtaining
a permit as provided by subsection 5-5-8A of this chapter. This provision shall
not be construed to permit conduct prohibited by other statutes, ordinances or
regulations governing such activity 5 .
      14.   Racing Events: Permitting any motor vehicle racing event at any
place in such a manner as to violate section
5-5-5 of this chapter or cause a noise disturbance.
      15.   Powered Model Mechanical Devices: The flying of a model aircraft
powered by internal combustion engines, whether tethered or not, or the firing
or operating of model rocket vehicles or other similar noise producing devices
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the
following day or in such a manner as to violate section
5-5-5 of this chapter or cause a noise disturbance.
      16.   Dynamic Engine Braking Devices: (Commonly referred to as Jacob's
brake.): Operating any motor vehicle with a dynamic engine braking device
engaged, except for the aversion of imminent danger.
      17.   Defect In Vehicle: Operating or permitting to be operated or used
any truck, automobile, motorcycle or other motor vehicle which, by virtue or
disrepair or manner of operation, violated in section
5-5-5 of this chapter or causes a noise disturbance 6 .
      18.   Standing Motor Vehicles: The operating or causing or permitting to
be operated any motor vehicle or any auxiliary equipment attached thereto in
such a manner as to violate section
5-5-5 of this chapter or cause a noise disturbance for a consecutive period
longer than fifteen (15) minutes during which such vehicle is stationary in a
residential zone.
      19.   Quiet Zones: Creating noise in excess of the residential standard,
as defined in section
5-5-5 of this chapter, within the vicinity of any school, hospital, nursing
home, institution of learning, court or other designated area while the same is
in use, provided conspicuous signs are displaced in the streets indicating that
the same is a quiet zone.
      20.   Bells And Alarms: Sounding, operating or permitting to sound or
operate an electronically amplified signal from any burglar alarm, bell, chimes
or clocks in schools, houses of religious worship or governmental buildings
which fails to meet the sound level standards set forth in section
5-5-5 of this chapter for more than five (5) minutes in any hour.
      21.   Fixed Sirens Whistles And Horns: The sounding or causing the
sounding of any whistle, horn or siren as a signal for commencing or suspending
work or for any other purpose except as a sound signal of imminent danger or
the testing of such equipment in such a manner as to violate section
5-5-5 of this chapter or cause a noise disturbance.
      22.   Vehicle, Recreational Vehicle Or Motorboat Repairs And Testing:
Repairing, rebuilding, modifying or testing any vehicle, recreational vehicle,
motorcycle or motorboat in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across
a residential real property boundary or within a quite zone.
      23.   Groups Or Gatherings Of People: Talking, laughing, yelling, singing
or otherwise making noise by two (2) or more people between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day in such a
manner as to violate section
5-5-5 of this chapter or cause a noise disturbance. (1984 Code § 23A-7)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 5 of this code.
2 2. See subsection 6-1-4A of this code.
3 3. See chapter 4, article A of this title.
4 1. SDCL § 9-33-1.
5 2. See chapter 6 of this title.
6 3. See section
  7-7-5 of this code.
5-5-5: USE DISTRICT NOISE LEVELS:
   A.   Maximum Permissible Sound Levels: It shall be a violation of this
chapter for any person to operate or permit to be operated any stationary
source of sound which creates a sound level greater than fifteen (15) dB(A)
above the ambient sound level (L90) for any measurement period which exceed the
limits set forth for the following receiving land use districts when measured
at the boundary or at any point within the property affected by the noise:
      L90      L10
   Use District   9PM - 7AM   7AM - 9PM   9PM - 7AM   7AM - 9PM
   Residential   50 dB(A)   55 dB(A)   60 dB(A)   65 dB(A)
   Commercial   55 dB(A)   60 dB(A)   65 dB(A)   70 dB(A)
   Industrial   65 dB(A)   70 dB(A)   75 dB(A)   80 dB(A)
When a noise source can be identified and its noise measured in more than one
land use category, the limits of the restrictive use shall apply at the
boundaries between different land use categories. For the purpose of enforcing
these provisions, a measurement period shall not be less than ten (10) minutes
nor more than thirty (30) minutes.
   B.   Correction For Character Of Sound:
      1.   For any stationary source of sound which emits a pure tone,
cyclically varying sound or repetitive impulsive sound, the limits set forth in
subsection A above shall be reduced by five (5) dB(A).
      2.   Notwithstanding compliance with subsection B1 of this section, it
shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to operate or permit to be
operated any stationary source of sound which emits a pure tone, cyclically
varying or repetitive impulsive sound which creates a noise disturbance. (1984
Code § 23A-4)
5-5-6: MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE:
   A.   No person shall drive or move or cause or knowingly permit to be driven
or moved a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles at any time in such a
manner as to exceed the following noise limits for the category of motor
vehicle shown below. The standard measurement height shall be five feet (5')
and the measurement distance no less than twenty five feet (25'). The distance
shall be measured from the near side of the nearest monitored traffic lane to
the microphone:
      Sound Level, dB(A)
   Motor vehicles with a manufac-   88
   turer's gross vehicle weight
   rating (GVWR) or gross combina-
   tion weight rating (GCWR) of
   10,000 pounds or more, or any
   combination of vehicles towed
   by such motor vehicle
   Motorcycles   78
   Any other motor vehicle or any   78
   combination of vehicles towed
   by any motor vehicle
   B.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle
unless the exhaust system of such vehicle is 1 :
      1.   Free from defects which affect sound reduction;
      2.   Equipped with a muffler or other noise dissipative device;
      3.   Not equipped with any cutout, bypass or similar device; and
      4.   Not modified in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise
emitted by the motor of such vehicle above that emitted by a muffler of the
type originally installed on the vehicle.
   C.   This section shall apply to the total noise from a vehicle or
combination of vehicles and shall not be construed as limiting or precluding
the enforcement of any other provisions of this code relating to motor vehicle
mufflers for noise control. (1984 Code § 23A-5)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-7-5 of this code.
5-5-7: CITY CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES:
   A.   Compliance Required: It is the policy of the city to comply with the
noise emission standards as set forth in this chapter in its own operations,
and the operations of its contractors and subcontractors shall be notified of
and required to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   City Purchases: It is the policy of the city to purchase only equipment
which complies to the standards established for the same by this chapter. (1984
Code § 23A-2)
5-5-8: RELIEF FROM PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Relief From Provisions: Applications for a permit for relief from the
noise restrictions in this chapter, on the basis of undue hardship, may be made
to the police department. Any permit granted by the police department shall
contain all conditions upon which said permit has been granted including, but
not limited to, the effective dates, time of day, location, sound pressure
level or equipment limitation. The relief requested may be granted upon good
and sufficient showing:
      1.   That additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or
modify his activity or operation to comply with this chapter; or
      2.   That the activity, operation or noise source will be of temporary
duration and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with this chapter;
and
      3.   That no reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
The city may prescribe any reasonable conditions or requirements deemed
necessary to minimize adverse effects upon a community or the surrounding
neighborhood. (1984 Code § 23A-9)
   B.   Exemptions: The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to: 1) the
emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence of any
emergency; or 2) the emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
(1984 Code § 23A-8)
5-5-9: ENFORCEMENT:
The police department will have the enforcement responsibility for this
chapter. (1984 Code § 23A-10)
5-5-10: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be punished as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(1984 Code § 23A-13; amd. 2005 Code)
Violations of this chapter shall be prosecuted in the same manner as other
violations of city ordinances; provided, however, that in the event of
violation of section
5-5-6 of this chapter pertaining to motor vehicles, a summons will be issued
citing the violator to arraignment. The violator may decide to effect a repair
or bring the vehicle into compliance prior to the arraignment date. It will be
the responsibility of the police department to test the vehicle for compliance
and, on being found in compliance, recommend dismissal to the court on first
offenses only. (1984 Code § 23A-12)
Violations of sections
5-5-3 through
5-5-6 and section
5-5-8 of this chapter are deemed and declared to be a nuisance and such may be
subject to summary abatement by means of a restraining order or injunction
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction 1 . (1984 Code § 23A-13)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title.
CHAPTER 6
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Fireworks Generally
5-6-3: Novelty Fireworks
5-6-4: Exceptions For Independence Day
5-6-5: Reckless Discharge Of Fireworks Prohibited
5-6-6: Public Displays; Permit Required
5-6-7: Storage Of Explosives
5-6-8: Effect Of Burn Ban
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
APA STANDARD DOCUMENT 87-1: The American Pyrotechnics Association, Inc.,
Standard 87-1, version 12/01/2001.
FIREWORKS: A device considered a firework or pyrotechnic by APA Standard
Document 87-1 to include, but not be limited to, firecrackers, skyrockets,
roman candles, aerial shells, and ground and handheld fireworks but not to
include novelty fireworks.
GROUND AND HANDHELD FIREWORKS: Those types of fireworks classified as ground or
handheld fireworks such as cylindrical fountains, cone fountains, illuminating
torches, wheels, ground spinners, flitter sparklers, toy smoke devices, and
wire sparklers so long as the compositions and masses are consistent with the
definitions provided under APA Standard Document 87-1 section 3.1.1 and its
subdivisions.
NOVELTY FIREWORKS: Those types of fireworks classified as novelties such as
party poppers, snappers, toy smoke devices, snakes, wire sparklers, and
including toy caps so long as the compositions and masses are consistent with
the definitions provided under APA Standard Document 87-1 sections 3.2 and 3.3.
(Ord. O2019-07, 6-3-2019)
5-6-2: FIREWORKS GENERALLY:
   A.   No person shall offer for sale, expose for sale, or sell at retail any
fireworks within City limits, except as expressly permitted by this chapter.
   B.   No person shall use, explode, or otherwise discharge any fireworks
within City limits, except as expressly permitted by this chapter.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as applying to the
manufacture, storage, sale, or use of signals necessary for the safe operation
of railroads or other classes of public or private transportation nor applying
to the military or navy forces of the United States or of this State or to the
peace officers nor as prohibiting the sale or use of blank cartridges for
ceremonial, theatrical, or athletic events. (Ord. O2019-07, 6-3-2019)
5-6-3: NOVELTY FIREWORKS:
The sale and use of novelty fireworks within City limits is permitted. However,
novelty fireworks may not be used in a manner prohibited by section
5-6-5 of this chapter nor in a manner prohibited by chapter 5, "Noise Control",
of this title. (Ord. O2019-07, 6-3-2019)
5-6-4: EXCEPTIONS FOR INDEPENDENCE DAY:
   A.   General Fireworks Permitted In Lake Area: A person may use, explode, or
otherwise discharge fireworks consistent with manufacturer directions between
the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59)
P.M. on July 3rd, July 4th, and July 5th so long as such person douses and
safely disposes of all waste resulting from such activity. Such activity may
only occur on property lying between the shoreline of Lake Mitchell and the
boundary of the nearest public right-of-way except that the Park and Recreation
Board may prohibit fireworks at the Lake Mitchell Campground.
   B.   Ground And Handheld Fireworks In All City Limits: A person may use,
explode, or otherwise discharge ground and handheld fireworks consistent with
manufacturer directions between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and
eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. on July 3rd, July 4th, and July 5th so
long as such person douses and safely disposes of all waste resulting from such
activity. Such ground and handheld fireworks may be used within all City limits
but only on private property with the express knowledge and permission of the
property owner. (Ord. O2019-07, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. O2020-09, 6-8-2020)
5-6-5: RECKLESS DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED:
No person may use, explode, or otherwise discharge fireworks recklessly or
while under the influence of any substance to a degree which renders the person
incapable of safely using, exploding, or otherwise discharging fireworks. (Ord.
O2019-07, 6-3-2019)
5-6-6: PUBLIC DISPLAYS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
Nothing shall prohibit the use of a public display of fireworks at times or
places that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter. However, prior to
making such public display of fireworks, the person intending to do such public
display shall first secure a written fireworks permit from the City Council.
(Ord. O2019-07, 6-3-2019)
5-6-7: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES:
No person shall keep in store any gun or blasting powder, dynamite or other
like substance, except in such manner as shall comply with the Fire Code
regulations and in such place or magazine as shall have been recommended by the
chief of fire and EMS or designated representative and approved by the City
Council for that purpose; provided, that any person engaged in retailing powder
may keep for purpose of retailing only a quantity of gun powder not to exceed
fifty (50) pounds, at any one time, at his place of business in fireproof boxes
or containers, out of doors, remote from fires and open flames and so that it
can be readily removed in case of fire. (Ord. O2019-07, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord.
O2020-14, 12-7-2020)
5-6-8: EFFECT OF BURN BAN:
At all times when a burn ban is in effect for Davison County, no fireworks,
including novelty fireworks and ground and handheld fireworks, may be used,
exploded, or otherwise discharged at any location within City limits, except
that the City Council may still allow a public display pursuant to a fireworks
permit to proceed if the permit is for indoor activity. (Ord. O2019-07, 6-3-
2019)
CHAPTER 7
DISASTER OR EMERGENCY
SECTION:
5-7-1: Intent
5-7-2: Definitions
5-7-3: Powers
5-7-4: Location Of Governing Body Meetings And Departments
5-7-5: Mutual Aid Agreements
5-7-6: Authority To Enter Property
5-7-7: Scope And Application
5-7-8: Emergency Award Of Contract Without Advertising; Record In Minutes
5-7-1: INTENT:
   A.   It is the intent of this chapter to provide the necessary organization,
powers, and authority to enable the timely and effective use of all available
city resources to prepare for, respond to, and recover from disasters and/or
emergencies, natural and manmade, likely to affect the health, security,
safety, or property of the city of Mitchell and its residents, whether such
events occur within or without the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 2181,
11-7-2005)
5-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: Shall include, but not be limited to, any condition of unrest,
riot, civil disobedience, affray, unlawful assembly, hostile military or
paramilitary action, war, terrorism, or sabotage.
DISASTER, WHETHER NATURAL OR MANMADE: Shall include, but not be limited to,
flood; fire; cyclone; tornado; earthquake; severe high or low temperatures;
water, land or air contamination; blizzard; landslide; mudslide; hurricane;
building or structural collapse; high water table; water pollution; air
pollution; epidemic; pandemic disease; riot; blight; drought; civil emergency;
utility emergency; severe energy shortages; snow; ice; windstorm; hazardous or
toxic substance spills or releases; chemical spills or releases; petroleum
spills or releases; biological material spills or releases; radiation releases
or exposure; structural failure; public health emergency; infestation;
explosions; or accidents.
UTILITY EMERGENCY: Shall include, but not be limited to, conditions which
endanger or threaten to endanger the safety, potability, availability,
transmission, distribution, treatment, or storage of water, natural gas, gas,
fuel, or electricity. (Ord. 2181, 11-7-2005)
5-7-3: POWERS:
   A.   The mayor of the city of Mitchell is authorized, if the mayor finds the
city or any part thereof is suffering or is in imminent danger of suffering a
natural or manmade disaster, civil or utility emergency, to declare a local
disaster or emergency and take the following procedural actions including, but
not limited to:
      1.   Suspend, limit, cancel, convene, reschedule, postpone, continue, or
relocate all meetings of the city council, and any city committee, commission,
board, authority, or other city body as deemed appropriate by the mayor.
      2.   Suspend or limit the sale, distribution, dispensing, or
transportation of alcoholic beverages, explosives, and combustible products and
require the closing of those businesses or parts of businesses insofar as the
sale, distribution, dispensing, or transportation of these items are concerned.
      3.   Establish a curfew during such hours of the days or nights and
affecting such categories of persons as may be designated.
      4.   Require the closing of business establishments.
      5.   Prohibit the sale or distribution within the city of any products
which could be employed in a manner which would constitute a danger to public
safety.
      6.   Close any and all streets, alleys, sidewalks, bike paths, public
parks or public ways.
      7.   Temporarily suspend or modify, for not more than sixty (60) days,
any regulation or ordinance of the city of Mitchell, including, but not limited
to, those regarding health, safety, and zoning. This period may be extended
upon approval of the city council.
      8.   Require the continuation, termination, disconnection, limitation, or
suspension of natural gas, electrical power, water, sewer, or other public
utilities or services.
      9.   Control, restrict, allocate, or regulate the use, sale, production,
or distribution of food, water, fuel, clothing, and/or other commodities,
materials, goods, services, and resources.
      10.   Suspend or limit burning of any items or property within the city
limits and up to two (2) miles outside the corporate limits.
      11.   Require emergency services of any city officer or employee. If
regular city forces are determined to be inadequate, then to acquire the
services of such other personnel as the mayor can obtain that are available,
including citizen volunteers. All duly authorized persons rendering emergency
services shall be entitled to the privileges and immunities as are provided by
state law to other registered and identified disaster emergency workers.
      12.   Utilize all available resources of the city as reasonably necessary
to manage the disaster or emergency.
      13.   Evacuate all or part of the population from any stricken or
threatened areas within the city if the mayor deems this action is necessary
for the preservation of life, property, or other disaster or emergency
mitigation, response or recovery and to prescribe routes, modes of
transportation and destination in connection with an evacuation.
      14.   Purchase or lease materials, supplies, or equipment during the
local disaster or emergency, and to authorize any or all agencies or city
officials to directly purchase or lease those materials, supplies, or equipment
essential to continue the work of the city involved without the advertisement
of bids. Purchases or leases exceeding the amount of fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) shall require prior approval by the city finance officer.
      15.   Hire and/or contract for construction, engineering, architectural,
building, electrical, plumbing, and/or other professional or construction
services essential to the continuation of the activities of the city without
the advertisement for bids or compliance with procurement requirements. Such
contracts shall not exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) without prior
approval having been given by the city finance officer.
      16.   Make application for local, state, or federal assistance.
      17.   Establish and control routes of transportation, ingress or egress.
      18.   Control ingress and egress from any designated disaster or
emergency area or homes, buildings, structures, or areas located therein.
      19.   Subject to any requirements established by law for compensation,
utilize private property as necessary to cope with emergency or disaster
conditions.
      20.   Appropriate and expend funds, exclude contracts, authorize the
obtaining and acquisition of property, equipment, services, supplies, and
materials without strict compliance with procurement regulations or procedures.
      21.   Transfer the direction, personnel, or functions of city departments
and agencies for the purpose of performing or facilitating emergency or
disaster services.
      22.   Accept services, gifts, grants, loans, equipment, supplies, and/or
materials whether from private, nonprofit, or governmental sources.
      23.   Order the isolation, quarantine, or segregation of persons or
animals when reasonably necessary to prevent the introduction or transmission
of infectious or contagious agents or toxins. Any such isolation or quarantine
must be by the least restrictive means necessary to prevent the exposure,
transmission, or spreading of a communicable, or potentially communicable,
disease, agent, or toxin to others and may include, but is not limited to,
confinement to private homes or other private or public premises.
      24.   Terminate or suspend any process, operation, machine, device, or
event that is or may negatively impact the health, safety, and welfare of
persons or property within the city of Mitchell.
      25.   Delegate authority to such city officials as the mayor determines
reasonably necessary, convenient, or expedient.
      26.   Close or cancel the use of any municipally owned or operated
building or other public facility.
      27.   Exercise such powers and functions in light of the exigencies of
emergency or disaster including the waiving of compliance with any time
consuming procedures and formalities, including notices, as may be prescribed
by law.
      28.   Remove, demolish, abate, clean up, mitigate, decontaminate, or
disinfect any structure, debris, wreckage, site, or location or to otherwise
mitigate the effects of any emergency or disaster.
      29.   Issue any and all such orders or undertake such other functions and
activities as the mayor reasonably believes is required or appropriate to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of persons or property within the city
of Mitchell.
   B.   The declaration shall be promptly filed with the city finance officer
and the public shall be notified through general publicity of said declaration.
   C.   The declaration of a local disaster or emergency shall be in effect for
a period of up to thirty (30) days. This period may be extended only upon
approval of the city council.
   D.   If the mayor is unavailable, the president of the city council shall
have said authority, followed by the vice president of the city council, and
then followed by the most senior ranked member of the city council. (Ord. 2181,
11-7-2005; amd. Ord. O2021-14, 12-6-2021)
5-7-4: LOCATION OF GOVERNING BODY MEETINGS AND DEPARTMENTS:
   A.   Whenever an emergency or disaster makes it imprudent or impossible to
conduct the affairs of the city at its regular locations, the governing body
may meet at any place, inside or outside the city limits. Any temporary
disaster meeting location for the governing body shall continue until a new
location is established or until the emergency or disaster is terminated and
the governing body is able to return to its normal location.
   B.   Whenever an emergency or disaster makes it imprudent or impossible to
conduct the affairs of any department of the city at its regular location, such
department may conduct its business at any place, inside or outside the city
limits, and may remain at the temporary location until the emergency or
disaster is declared ended or until the department is able to return to its
normal location.
   C.   Any official act or meeting required to be performed at any regular
location of the governing body or of its departments shall be valid when
performed at any temporary location established under this section. (Ord. 2181,
11-7-2005)
5-7-5: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
   A.   The mayor may, on behalf of the city, enter into such reciprocal aid,
mutual aid, joint powers agreements, intergovernmental assistance agreements,
or other compacts, plans, or agreements with other governmental entities for
the protection of life and property. Such agreements may include the furnishing
or exchange of supplies, equipment, facilities, personnel, and/or services.
   B.   The governing body or any of its committees, commissions, or
authorities may exercise such powers and functions in light of the exigencies
of the emergency or disaster and may waive compliance with time consuming
procedures and formalities prescribed by law. (Ord. 2181, 11-7-2005)
5-7-6: AUTHORITY TO ENTER PROPERTY:
During the period of a declared emergency or disaster, a city employee or
authorized agent may enter onto or upon private property if the employee or
authorized agent has reasonable grounds to believe that there is a true
emergency or disaster and an immediate need for assistance for the protection
of life or property, and that entering onto the private land will allow the
employee or authorized agent to take such steps to alleviate or minimize the
emergency or disaster or to prevent or minimize risk or danger to lives or
property from the declared emergency or disaster. (Ord. 2181, 11-7-2005)
5-7-7: SCOPE AND APPLICATION:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all executive, legislative, and
judicial branches, powers, and functions conferred upon the city and its
officers, employees, and authorized agents. (Ord. 2181, 11-7-2005)
5-7-8: EMERGENCY AWARD OF CONTRACT WITHOUT ADVERTISING; RECORD IN MINUTES 1 :
The governing board of a public corporation may, except where statute
prescribes a different procedure, when it determines an emergency to exist
involving the health or welfare of its people, spread upon the minutes of its
meeting the finding of such emergency, and award bids without advertising
therefor. An emergency may be deemed to exist when awaiting regular advertising
for bids would seriously impair public services to be provided and rentals are
not available on a timely basis. As far as practicable the board shall secure
at least two (2) competitive quotations and retain the same for their files. At
the next meeting of the board there shall be spread upon the minutes a
statement of the quotations received, identifying the bidder and the amount of
the bid. (Ord. 2181, 11-7-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL 5-18-3.1.
   
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Rabies Control
6-1-3: Animals At Large
6-1-4: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
6-1-5: Enforcement And Impoundment
6-1-6: Violations And Penalties
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
 
         An animal shall be deemed to be running at large when off or away from the
         owner’s premises and not under the complete control of the animal’s owner,
AT LARGE possessor, keeper, agent, servant, or a member of the owner’s immediate family
OR       by a leash, verbal command, or remote pet collar. However, an animal present at
RUNNING  a public gathering of ten (10) or more people, not including leash free parks,
AT       must be restrained by a leash and not by verbal command or remote pet collar. An
LARGE:   animal is not to be deemed running at large if it is within the vehicle of the
         animal’s owner, possessor, keeper, agent, servant, or a member of the owner’s
         immediate family, or if the animal is within a posted leash free park as
         designated by the park and recreation board of the City of Mitchell.
         A state where an animal is restrained by leash, verbal command, or remote pet
         collar from taking an action which is not desired by the animal’s owner,
         possessor, keeper, agent, servant, or a member of the owner’s immediate family
         and such restraint does actually prevent the animal from taking an undesired
         action. For verbal commands and remote pet collars to be deemed to be
COMPLETE restraining the animal, the animal shall behave as if on a leash short enough to
CONTROL: prevent trespass onto the private property of another, and in no event longer
         than fifty feet (50'). Examples of undesired actions include, but are not
         limited to, straying too far from the animal’s handler, not following handler
         commands, and making contact with another person without consent. An animal is
         not under complete control if the animal is the aggressor in an incident where
         the animal is declared to be a restricted animal or vicious animal.
LEASH:   A cord, thong or chain by which an animal is controlled by the person
         accompanying it.
         Any person harboring or keeping an animal and who is the head of the household
OWNER:   of the residence or the owner or manager in charge of the establishment or
         premises at which an animal remains or returns to is the owner of the animal
         within the meaning of this chapter.
PET      The person designated by the city council to be responsible for the enforcement
CONTROL  of this chapter and who shall work with other law enforcement officials in the
OFFICER: enforcement of this chapter.
REMOTE   A collar worn by an animal that when signaled by remote control delivers an
PET      electrical shock to the animal. (1984 Code § 6-1; amd. Ord. 2395, 3-19-2012;
COLLAR:  Ord. O2022-08, 7-5-2022)
 
6-1-2: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Cooperation With County, State And Federal Officials: The city shall
cooperate with the state department of health, the state livestock sanitary
guard, the U.S. fish and wildlife service, the U.S. public health service, the
U.S. department of agriculture, state and local veterinary associations and any
other county, state or federal agency concerned with the control of rabies in a
combined effort to reduce rabies in wildlife and domestic animals. The city
shall institute such additional measures for the control of rabies as may be
deemed necessary. (1984 Code § 6-14)
   B.   Vaccination Required:
      1.   An animal shall be considered unvaccinated after the expiration of
thirteen (13) months following the date of its latest rabies vaccination;
provided, however, that if a licensed veterinarian shall issue a certificate
certifying the effective period of a vaccination, the animal shall not be
considered unvaccinated until after the expiration of the certified effective
period of the vaccination.
      2.   Any owner acquiring a dog, cat or other animal by purchase, gift,
birth or otherwise, shall have such animal vaccinated against rabies within one
month following acquisition or when the animal reaches the age of six (6)
months. (1984 Code § 6-15)
   C.   Impounded Animals: Any impounded animal shall not be released by the
pet control officer or his agent to any person until such animal has been
vaccinated against rabies; provided, however, no animal so impounded shall be
vaccinated if the owner can present a certificate of current vaccination. (1984
Code § 6-16)
   D.   Impounding For Observation:
      1.   When any person owning or harboring a dog, cat or other animal which
is not currently vaccinated for rabies, or for which the owner cannot produce a
current certificate of vaccination issued by a licensed veterinarian, has been
notified that said animal has bitten any person, the animal must be impounded
at the city impound facility for the period of ten (10) days, under the
observation of a licensed veterinarian, with the expense of such impoundment
and observation to be borne by the owner of the animal. (Ord. 1745, 8-2-1993)
      2.   If it is determined by the licensed veterinarian at the end of the
ten (10) day impoundment period that the animal is not rabid, and provided the
animal is not determined to be a dangerous dog under article A of this chapter,
the animal may be returned to its owner, subject to the owner: a) paying
impound charges and all other expenses incident to the observation of the
animal; b) the animal is properly vaccinated for rabies; and c) any other
provisions or requirements of law, including licensing, are fully complied
with, otherwise the animal shall be disposed of. (Ord. 1745, 8-2-1993; amd.
2005 Code)
      3.   Upon the advice of a licensed veterinarian or medical doctor, the
chief of police may order and require that the animal be immediately destroyed,
and that the head or other organs or parts, as required for the diagnosis of
rabies, be sent to an appropriate laboratory for an expedited determination of
whether or not the animal committing the bite is infected with rabies.
      4.   Any animal impounded or placed for observation, showing active signs
of rabies, suspected of having rabies or known to have been exposed to rabies,
shall be subject to the control and direction, including disposition as
necessary, of the licensed veterinarian conducting the observation and
impoundment. (Ord. 1745, 8-2-1993)
   E.   Keeping Rabid Animals: No person shall knowingly harbor or keep any
animal infected with rabies or any animal known to have been bitten by an
animal known to have been infected with rabies. (1984 Code § 6-18)
   F.   Reports Of Suspected Cases:
      1.   Any person who shall suspect that any animal in the city is infected
with rabies shall report said animal to the pet control officer or other proper
city official, describing the animal and giving the name and address of the
owner if known. (1984 Code § 6-19)
      2.   Veterinarians within the city receiving information or reports of
suspected rabies in wild or domestic animals shall report such information to
the pet control officer or other proper city official. (1984 Code § 6-20)
      3.   Immediately upon treatment of any person bitten by an animal,
physicians within the city shall report such information to the pet control
officer or other proper city official. (1984 Code § 6-21)
   G.   Destruction Of Rabid Animals: Any rabid animal may be destroyed by the
pet control officer or a veterinarian upon written authorization of the proper
city official. (1984 Code § 6-22)
   H.   Muzzling Proclamation; Authority Of City: Whenever the proper city
official shall have determined that there is danger of the existence or spread
of rabies in the city, he shall make the facts known to the mayor, in writing.
The mayor, upon receipt of said facts, may, by proclamation, in the interest of
public safety and general welfare of the citizenry, order all animals muzzled
when off the premises of the owner. Forty eight (48) hours after the
publication of said proclamation, all animals found off the premises of the
owner, unmuzzled, shall be seized and impounded or may be immediately destroyed
if all reasonable efforts to seize said animals fail. All animals seized and
impounded shall be held for observation for ten (10) days and, if cleared by a
licensed veterinarian, may be claimed by the owner, and the owner must pay the
expenses incidental thereto. Any animal not claimed may be disposed of in a
humane manner. (1984 Code § 6-23; amd. 2005 Code)
6-1-3: ANIMALS AT LARGE 1 :
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited: The owner of an animal shall not permit
such animal to run at large within the city. Whenever an animal is found
running at large, the same shall constitute prima facie evidence that the owner
permitted it to run at large.
   B.   No Pet Areas: The city finds that animal defecation within certain
areas within the public grounds and parks within the city, which are subject to
concentrated use by the public, constitutes a public nuisance. Accordingly, the
park and recreation board shall have authority, in their discretion, to
designate areas within city park property as no pet areas, and post such areas
as no pet areas as shall be required to give reasonable notice to the public.
The golf and cemetery board shall have authority, in their discretion, to
designate areas of city property within and adjacent to the cemetery and golf
course and on the bike and pedestrian paths that run adjacent to the golf
course and cemetery, as no pet areas or as areas that will have restrictions
placed upon pet conduct, and post such areas as shall be required to give
reasonable notice to the public of those restrictions. Any other area of public
property within the city designated by the city council as a no pet area shall
also be posted as shall be required to give reasonable notice to the public. It
shall be unlawful for any person to permit any animal under his ownership or
control to be present upon any park or public ground designated as a no pet
area, or be engaged in prohibited pet conduct and for which signs providing
reasonable notice to the public are posted. Any person who violates this
subsection by causing or permitting the presence of an animal in an area so
designated and posted as a no pet area or allows his/her pet to violate the pet
conduct prohibited shall, upon conviction, be subject to the general penalty in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2286, 7-21-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsections 8-3-5C and 8-6-2H4 of this code.
6-1-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Animal Noises 1 : No owner or person in custody of any animal shall
allow such animal to make frequent, repetitive, or continuous noise which
unreasonably disturbs or interferes with peace, comfort, and repose of a
property owner or possessor, except that such noise shall be exempt when
originating from lawfully operated animal shelters, kennels, pet shops, and
veterinary clinics. (Ord. 2554, 10-17-2016)
   B.   Cruelty To Animals: No person shall wilfully or negligently maltreat,
abuse, or neglect, in a cruel or inhumane manner, any animal or fowl. (1984
Code § 6-5)
   C.   Stray, Abandoned Or Unkept Animals: No person shall harbor or keep any
stray animals. Animals known to be strays shall be immediately reported to the
pet control officer. (1984 Code § 6-6)
   D.   Poisoning Of Animals: Unless recommended by the proper city official,
it shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously administer or
cause to be administered poison of any sort whatsoever to any animal, the
property of another, with the intent to injure or destroy such animal or to
wilfully or maliciously place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to any such animal. (1984 Code § 6-7)
   E.   Nuisance Animals: No person shall keep or maintain any animal or
animals, including fowl, within the city or within its jurisdictional limits on
the scale or basis which causes, creates or constitutes a nuisance. Pursuant to
South Dakota Codified Laws 9-29-13, the city council may consider any specific
case or circumstance in respect to the keeping of an animal or animals within
the jurisdictional limits if the city, and pursuant to such state law authority
may by resolution declare the existence of a public nuisance and require
abatement of the same. (Ord. 1745, 8-2-1993)
   F.   Keeping Of Animals In Unoccupied Structures: No person shall, within
the city, keep or maintain any animal in or upon an enclosed and unoccupied
structure and upon premises which is not the residence of the owner unless
prior consent therefor shall have been obtained, in writing, from the proper
city official. The proper city official shall not give his consent therefor
unless the owner or person seeking such consent is satisfied that a health and
sanitation nuisance will not be created and that the safety and protection of
the public is adequately provided for. The proper city official may withdraw
his consent upon notice to the owner or person in possession of the premises,
if said official deems, at any time, that a health and sanitation nuisance is
created or that the safety and protection of the public is not adequately
provided for. (1984 Code § 6-9)
   G.   Abandoning Animals: No person shall abandon an animal in the city.
(1984 Code § 6-10)
   H.   Fowl: No person shall allow any ducks, geese, chickens or other
domestic fowl to run at large, nor shall any person keep enclosed or housed any
domestic fowl within the distance of one hundred feet (100') of any occupied
dwelling or building, or within any residential area of the city. No person
owning or in control or possession of any pigeons within the city shall suffer,
allow or permit the same or any of them to roam or fly at large within the
city. (Ord. 1745, 8-2-1993)
   I.   Keeping Livestock Within City:
      1.   No person shall keep any horse, cow, goat or sheep or erect or
maintain any building or enclosure for use in keeping any of such animals
within one hundred feet (100') of any dwelling house or building used for human
habitation other than that of the owner of such animals.
      2.   No person shall keep or maintain any building or enclosure where
livestock is kept unless the same be, at all times, kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      3.   No person shall place, keep or maintain any live hogs within the
city except such hogs as are kept in the yards or pens of the railway companies
for shipping purposes or in pens, houses or yards of the stockyards,
packinghouses or butcher shops and kept for the purpose of immediate shipment
or slaughter. However, a household may keep one hog per dwelling unit as a
household pet so long as such hog has been bred for human companionship, the
hog weighs no more than two hundred (200) pounds, and does not otherwise
violate any animal control or nuisance ordinances of the city. (1984 Code § 6-
12)
   J.   Picketing Of Animals: No person shall, within the city, stake out or
tether any domestic animal in such a manner as to permit such animal to go upon
any street, alley or sidewalk or to approach within one hundred feet (100') of
any dwelling, house or building used for human habitation other than that of
the owner or keeper of such animal; except, that a small household pet may be
tethered by its owner within one hundred feet (100') of another's dwelling
house or building; provided, such small household pet does not create a
nuisance. (Ord. 1592, 4-18-1988)
   K.   Animal Feces: No owner, keeper, caretaker or attendant of an animal
shall allow the animal to defecate on public or private property other than his
own. If such animal does defecate upon public or private property, the owner,
keeper, caretaker or attendant must immediately and thoroughly clean the fecal
matter from such property. Any person who violates this subsection shall, upon
conviction of such violation, be subject to the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1902, 5-4-1998; amd. Ord. O2022-15, 10-17-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 5-5-4B5 of this code.
6-1-5: ENFORCEMENT AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the pet control officer to carry
out and enforce all of the provisions of this chapter, and no person shall
hinder, delay or obstruct the pet control officer, his assistant or any law
enforcement officer when engaged in capturing, securing or impounding any
animal. (1984 Code §§ 6-24, 6-25)
   B.   Pet Shelter Established: The city council shall, by resolution,
establish and maintain facilities to be used for a pound within the city or may
contract with any private sector for the establishment and maintenance of a
pound. Such public pound shall be under the charge of the chief of police or
his designated representative. (1984 Code § 6-26)
   C.   Authority To Impound: Any police officer or any other person of proper
authority is hereby authorized and empowered to impound any animal found within
the city in violation of any provision of this chapter. (1984 Code § 6-27)
   D.   Costs For Impoundment: Before any person may redeem any animal from
impoundment, he shall first pay the redemption fee as shall be established from
time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 1864, 1-6-1997)
   E.   Notice Of Impoundment: The owner of any animal impounded under the
provisions of this section, if his identity and location can be obtained by
reasonable means, shall be notified, within twenty four (24) hours, that his
animal has been impounded. (1984 Code § 6-29)
   F.   Redemption By Person Other Than Owner: If the owner of any animal
impounded under the provisions of this section shall fail to redeem such animal
within three (3) days, not counting Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, after such
impounding, any other person, subject to the discretion of the chief of police
or such other person as he shall designate, may redeem or adopt such animal
from the pet shelter and be the lawful owner thereof. (Ord. 2109, 12-15-2003)
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently adopt an otherwise
unredeemed animal for the purpose of avoiding the payment of redemption fees
otherwise chargeable against the owner of the animal, whether such fraudulent
redemption is committed by the owner of the animal or by another person for the
purpose of returning the animal to its prior owner.
   G.   Disposition Of Unredeemed Animals: All animals impounded under the
provisions of this section and remaining unredeemed after five (5) consecutive
days, not counting Sundays and holidays, of the impounding, unless impounded
for a longer specified time, may be disposed of by any humane means. (Ord.
1864, 1-6-1997)
   H.   Impoundment By Private Persons: The pet control officer shall not
receive any animal into the impoundment facilities from any person unless such
person shall leave his full name and place of residence, which shall be
registered in a proper book kept by the pet control officer. It shall be
unlawful for any person to give any false information or statement concerning
the owner, keeper or harborer of any animal brought into the impoundment
facilities or impounded therein. (1984 Code § 6-32)
   I.   Records Kept:
      1.   Impoundment Records: The pet control officer shall keep an accurate
record of all animals received at the shelter and released, including the date
and from whom received and description of the animal and the name and address
of the person receiving the animal. He shall also keep an accurate count and
description of animals destroyed. (1984 Code § 6-33)
      2.   Record Of Animal Bites: The pet control officer shall keep an
accurate record of all animal bites and shall use forms supplied by the proper
city official. The forms shall be made out in duplicate and filled out in
detail with one copy sent to the proper city official and the other copy kept
on file by the pet control officer for his record. (1984 Code § 6-34)
   J.   Injured Animals:
      1.   Unlicensed Animals: In those instances when an animal without
identification is injured, and the owner cannot be found, it will be the duty
of the pet control officer to determine if that animal, for humane reasons due
to the extent of the injury and the suffering, shall be destroyed. The city
and/or pet control officer shall not be held liable in any way for this humane
act.
      2.   Licensed Animals: In those instances where an injured animal with a
license tag issued by the pet control officer is picked up, it shall be
delivered to a licensed veterinarian. All expenses of the city and the
veterinarian charges and fees must be paid by the pet owner. (1984 Code § 6-35;
amd. Ord. O2020-14, 12-7-2020)
6-1-6: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
A violation of any provision of this chapter is a separate offense and is
punishable as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1745, 8-2-1993; amd. 2005 Code)
ARTICLE A. RESTRICTED AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-1A-1: Definitions
6-1A-2: Determinations Of Restricted Animals And Vicious Animals
6-1A-3: Additional Provisions Relating To Restricted Animals
6-1A-4: Prohibited Acts
6-1A-5: Exceptions
6-1A-6: Enforcement; Penalties
6-1A-7: Miscellaneous Provisions
6-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this article, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
ANIMAL      The officer regularly assigned to the animal control position. This term also
CONTROL     refers to any other officer designated by the chief of police to perform the
OFFICER:    duties of the animal control position either temporarily or during times the
            regular animal control officer is off duty.
            A scale used for determining the severity of animal caused injury with escalating
            levels defined as:
            A.   Level 1. Obnoxious or aggressive behavior but no skin contact by teeth.
            B.   Level 2. Skin contact by teeth but no skin puncture. However, may be skin
            nicks (less than one tenth of an inch deep) and slight bleeding caused by forward
            or lateral movement of teeth against skin, but no vertical punctures.
            C.   Level 3. One to four punctures from a single bite, which may have
DUNBAR      lacerations in a single direction, caused by victim pulling hand away, owner
SCALE:      pulling animal away, or gravity (little animal jumps, bites, and drops to floor).
            D.   Level 4. One to four punctures from a single bite with at least one puncture
            deeper than half the length of the animal's canine teeth. May also have deep
            bruising around the wound (animal held and bore down) or lacerations in both
            directions (animal held and shook its head from side to side).
            E.   Level 5. At least two Level 4 bites either in the same bite incident or over
            multiple attack incidents.
            F.   Level 6. Victim dead.
MENACES:    Approaches a human being or other domestic animal in apparent attitude of attack.
OWNER:      Any person possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having
            control or custody of an animal.
            The time period beginning on the date when an owner, keeper, harborer, or handler
PERIOD OF   of an animal is given written notice that an animal has been classified as
OWNER'S     "restricted" or "vicious". Such time period shall conclude on the later of:
RIGHT TO    A. The sixth day after the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler was provided the
APPEAL:     written notice; or
            B. The day upon which a final determination is made by the chief of police, or
            their designee, as to the animal’s classification.
PERSON:     Any individual, partnership, firm, corporation or employee thereof, or other
            legal entity, unless otherwise stated.
            Any animal which, when unprovoked, in a vicious or terrorizing manner menaces, or
RESTRICTED  bites, or inflicts injury, or assaults, or otherwise attacks a human being or
ANIMAL:     other domestic animal under circumstances which do not rise to the level of being
            declared a vicious animal.
            That the animal was not teased, tormented, abused, or assaulted, nor threatened
UNPROVOKED: or intimidated under the circumstances where the animal was not allowed free
            opportunity to escape.
            Any animal which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner bites, or inflicts injury,
            or assaults, or otherwise attacks a human being or other domestic animal and the
VICIOUS     resulting harm is equivalent to a Level 4 or higher injury on the Dunbar Scale.
ANIMAL:     May also be any animal which has previously been declared a restricted animal and
            is involved in a second or subsequent incident for which the animal could be
            declared a restricted animal. (Ord. 1745, 8-2-1993; amd. Ord. 2309, 7-20-2009;
            Ord. O2022-09, 6-21-2022)
 
6-1A-2: DETERMINATIONS OF RESTRICTED ANIMALS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Restricted Animal And Vicious Animal Declaration Procedures:
      1.   The animal control officer shall have the authority to investigate
and declare whether an animal is a restricted animal or vicious animal.
      2.   The animal control officer shall have the authority to impound, at
the owner's expense, an animal under investigation of being a restricted animal
or vicious animal. The animal may be held while the investigation is pending or
as further provided by this article.
      3.   If after reasonable investigation the animal control officer
determines that the animal is a vicious animal, the animal control officer
shall order the owner to either remove the vicious animal from the
jurisdictional limits of the city, or in the alternative, deliver the vicious
animal to the city impoundment facility for humane euthanization.
      4.   If after reasonable investigation the animal control officer
determines that the animal is a restricted animal, the animal control officer
shall order the owner to comply with any applicable conditions of this article
relating to the keeping of a restricted animal and such further conditions as
the animal control officer determines to be appropriate to protect the public.
      5.   An owner may request the animal control officer reconsider the
declaration of their animal as a restricted animal or vicious animal. The
animal control officer may consider any additional evidence provided by the
owner or may seek the opinion of a veterinarian regarding the classification of
the animal. After such further investigation as the animal control officer may
deem appropriate, the animal control officer shall confirm, amend, or rescind
their declaration.
      6.   If an animal impounded during an investigation is determined to not
be a restricted animal or vicious animal, the animal shall be released back to
the owner upon the conclusion of the investigation and payment by owner of any
fees or charges relating to the impoundment.
   B.   Appeals To The Chief of Police:
      1.   The owner of an animal declared to be a restricted animal or vicious
animal may appeal the determination of the animal control officer to the chief
of police. However, the owner may not defer compliance with the order of the
animal control officer. If the animal is ordered to be humanely euthanized,
such euthanization shall not be carried out if the owner shall have paid in
advance the daily charge of the boarding at the impound facility for such
number of days as will be required for the matter to be heard by the chief of
police.
      2.   The owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of an animal shall have the
ability to appeal the animal control officer's declaration that an animal is a
restricted animal or vicious animal in the following manner:
         a.   Notice shall be deemed given either when a written notice has
been served upon any owner, keeper, harborer, or handler, when a written notice
properly stamped and addressed to the registered owner of an animal is
deposited into the mail, or when written notice is left in a reasonable
location upon the property on which the animal was located. Such written notice
may be given by the animal control officer, other police officer, or other
person of governmental authority, in the form of a citation for failure to
comply with relevant city ordinances or by other written document stating that
an animal has been classified as a restricted animal or vicious animal.
         b.   Once written notice that an animal has been declared a restricted
animal or vicious animal, the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of such an
animal shall have five (5) calendar days to deliver written intent to appeal
such classification to the chief of police. Such notice must contain all of the
following:
            (1)   A clear statement identifying the document as intent to
appeal a classification of an animal as a restricted animal or vicious animal;
            (2)   Identifying by name and address, the owner, keeper, harborer,
or handler who is making the appeal;
            (3)   Reasonably identifying the animal in question;
            (4)   Identifying the citation, with ticket number, or other
written document in which a classification as a restricted animal or vicious
animal was made; and
            (5)   Any relevant information, documents, statements, or other
evidence which the person challenging the classification desires to have
considered prior to making a final determination that the animal is a
restricted animal or vicious animal.
            (6)   If no written intent to appeal the classification is
delivered within five (5) days, such a right to appeal the classification of
the animal as a restricted animal or vicious animal shall be deemed waived and
such classification shall be deemed conclusive and final for all purposes.
         c.   Upon receiving written notice of intent to appeal a
classification of a restricted animal or vicious animal, the chief of police
shall promptly, upon investigation and/or a hearing (if requested and, in the
discretion deemed beneficial to the interest of justice) shall issue a written
determination of the appropriateness of the classification. This decision shall
be final and shall be served in person or by mail upon the person who filed the
appeal.
         d.   A finding by chief of police that an animal is not a restricted
animal or vicious animal shall not prevent the same animal from later being
declared a restricted animal or vicious animal due to a subsequent incident.
(Ord. 2309, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. O2022-09, 6-21-2022)
6-1A-3: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO RESTRICTED ANIMALS:
The owner of an animal declared to be a restricted animal shall comply with the
following requirements as a condition of maintaining such animal within the
jurisdictional limits of the city:
   A.   Registration:
      1.   The owner of a restricted animal must register such animal with the
police department and microchip identify such animal at owner's expense. The
application for such registration shall contain:
         a.    The name and address of the owner;
         b.   The breed, age, sex, color and any other identifying marks of the
animal;
         c.   The location where the animal is to be kept if not at the address
of the owner; and
         d.   Any other information which the chief of police may require.
      2.   The application for registration pursuant to this subsection shall
be accompanied by a registration fee as established from time to time by
resolution of the city council. Each restricted animal registered pursuant to
this article shall be assigned an official registration number by the police
department. Such registration number shall be inscribed on a metal tab which
shall be attached to the collar of the restricted animal at all times. The tag
and a certificate of registration shall be of such form and design and shall
contain such information as the chief of police shall prescribe and shall be
issued to the owner upon payment of the registration fee and the presentment of
sufficient evidence that the owner has complied with all of the orders of the
chief of police or animal control officer in respect to said restricted animal.
   B.   Confinement:
      1.   The chief of police or animal control officer may order the owner of
a restricted animal to display one or more department provided signs in a place
visible from the sidewalk or road adjacent to the property denoting a
restricted animal is kept on the property.
      2.   In addition, the chief of police or animal control officer may order
the restricted animal be controlled or contained as follows:
         a.   If the animal is indoors, that the animal be under the control of
a person over eighteen (18) years old;
         b.   If the animal is outdoors and attended, that the animal be
muzzled on a leash no longer than six (6') feet and under the control of a
person over eighteen (18) years of age; or
         c.   If the animal is outdoors and unattended, the animal must be
locked in an escape-proof kennel approved by the animal control officer.
Minimum standards for the kennel shall include the following:
            (1)   Fencing materials shall not have openings with a diameter of
more than two (2") inches. In the case of a wooden fence, the gaps shall not be
more than two (2") inches.
            (2)   Any gates within the pen or structure shall be lockable and
of a design to prevent the entry of children or the escape of the animal;
            (3)   Secure sides and top. If the kennel has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be imbedded into the ground or concrete;
            (4)   The kennel shall protect the animal from the elements; and
            (5)   The kennel may be required to have double exterior walls to
prevent the insertion of fingers, hands, or other objects.
   C.   Confiscation And Impoundment: If the owner of a restricted animal
violates any ordinance or order which relates to the animal, the restricted
animal may be confiscated, impounded, and/or humanely euthanized.
Alternatively, the chief of police or animal control officer may issue a
further order imposing additional restrictions for maintaining the restricted
animal.
   D.   Insurance: The owner of a restricted animal shall carry animal
liability insurance in an amount no less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) per incident which covers the medical and/or veterinary costs
resulting from future actions which would lead to an animal being declared a
restricted animal or vicious animal. Proof of insurance shall be filed with
animal control at the time the restricted animal is registered. (Ord. 2313, 10-
5-2009; amd. Ord. O2022-09, 6-21-2022)
6-1A-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No person shall own or harbor any animal for the purpose of fighting,
or train, torment, badger, bait or use any animal for the purpose of causing or
encouraging said animal to attack or menace human beings or domestic animals
when not provoked.
   B.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, breed, buy, or attempt to buy any
vicious animal within the city.
   C.   Any vicious animal found within the city is declared to be a public
nuisance. The vicious animal shall be impounded and the animal control officer
shall either order the owner to remove the vicious animal from the
jurisdictional limits of the city, or in the alternative, order the vicious
animal to be humanely euthanized. (Ord. 1745, 8-2-1993; amd. Ord. O2022-09, 6-
21-2022)
6-1A-5: EXCEPTIONS:
No animal shall be declared a restricted animal or vicious animal under any of
the following circumstances:
   A.   If at the time of the incident a person was committing a crime or other
tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog. This exception does
not apply where the animal menaces, or bites, or inflicts injury, or assaults,
or otherwise attacks a mailman, meter reader, serviceman, journeyman, delivery
man, or other employed person who is on private property by reason of
permission of the owner or occupant of such property or who is on private
property by reason of a course of dealing with the owner of such private
property;
   B.   If at the time of the incident a person or other domestic animal was
teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been
observed or reported to have teased, tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog;
   C.   If at the time of the incident the animal was being threatened or
intimidated under circumstances where the animal was not allowed free
opportunity to escape;
   D.   If at the time of the incident the animal was working for hunting,
herding, or animal control purposes on the property of or under the control of
its owner, and the injury was to a species or type of animal appropriate to the
work;
   E.   If at the time of the incident the animal was protecting or defending a
person within the immediate vicinity of the animal from an attack or assault;
   F.   If the animal was serving as a military, correctional, or police animal
at the time of the incident and the animal was behaving as trained;
   G.   If at the time of the incident the animal was reacting to pain or
injury; or
   H.   If at the time of the incident the animal was protecting itself or its
offspring. (Ord. 2309, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. O2022-09, 6-21-2022)
6-1A-6: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement: Authorized officers and employees of the police
department, and any other persons designated by the chief of police, shall be
empowered to enforce the provisions of this article.
   B.   Humane Euthanization: For any animal ordered to be humanely euthanized
pursuant to this article, such procedure shall only be carried out by a
veterinarian. (Ord. 1745, 8-2-1993)
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1745, 8-2-1993; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   In addition to the penalties prescribed by this subsection, any
person who violates any order of the chief of police or animal control officer
in respect to the disposition of any animal determined to be a vicious animal
shall be liable for a civil penalty of not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   D.   Pre-existing Declarations: If an animal was previously declared to be a
potentially dangerous animal pursuant to prior ordinance, then such animal
shall be deemed to be a restricted animal. If an animal was previously declared
to be a dangerous animal pursuant to prior ordinance, then such animal shall be
deemed to be a vicious animal. (Ord. 1745, 8-2-1993; amd. Ord. O2022-09, 6-21-
2022)
6-1A-7: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Whenever an animal is impounded and/or humanely euthanized pursuant to
this article, the owner of the animal shall be solely responsible for all the
costs relating to such impoundment and/or humane euthanasia.
   B.   The provisions of this article are to be considered cumulative and in
addition to all other enforcement mechanisms available to the city and no
action taken pursuant to this article shall preclude the city from enforcing
any other ordinances pertaining to animals or nuisances.
   C.   An animal that has been previously declared to be the equivalent of a
restricted animal or vicious animal by another jurisdiction shall be deemed a
restricted animal or vicious animal if the circumstances leading to the
declaration in the other jurisdiction would have been sufficient for such a
declaration had the events occurred within the city of Mitchell. An owner of an
animal declared to be the equivalent of a restricted animal or dangerous animal
in another jurisdiction shall inform the police department of the owner's
intention to bring such an animal into the city of Mitchell. The owner shall
provide sufficient facts relating to the declaration from another jurisdiction
so that the police department can investigate the matter and reach a
determination on how the animal would be classified in Mitchell. Upon reaching
a determination that the animal's out of jurisdiction incident would result in
the animal being a restricted animal or vicious animal within the city of
Mitchell, the provisions relating to such classifications shall apply as if the
out of jurisdiction incident had occurred within the city of Mitchell. (Ord.
O2022-09, 6-21-2022)
CHAPTER 2
ABANDONED PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-2-1: Impoundment And Redemption Of Property
6-2-2: Sale At Public Auction
6-2-3: Disposition Of Proceeds
6-2-1: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION OF PROPERTY:
Any personal property, excluding vehicles as defined in South Dakota Codified
Laws 32-36-2 (or as amended), which has been abandoned upon any of the streets,
alleys or other public places shall be taken into possession by the police
department and shall be stored at such location as shall be designated by the
city council for a period of at least ninety (90) days, during which time the
owner may redeem such property upon paying the cost of removal and storage.
(Ord. 2229, 12-4-2006)
6-2-2: SALE AT PUBLIC AUCTION:
If abandoned personal property is not reclaimed within a ninety (90) day
period, then the property may be sold by the police department at public
auction, at such location as may be determined by the city council, after
publication at least once ten (10) days prior to the date of such sale of a
notice describing the property to be sold and the time and place of the sale.
(1984 Code § 2-2)
6-2-3: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS:
Immediately after the sale of abandoned property at public auction, the person
making such sale shall file a report thereof with the finance officer. The
proceeds of such sale shall be deposited with the finance officer and credited
to the general fund of the city. (1984 Code § 2-3)
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Offenses Involving The Person
6-3-1-1: Disorderly Conduct
6-3-1-2: Public Indecency
6-3-1-3: Loitering Prohibited
6-3-2: Offenses Involving Property
6-3-2-1: Damage Prohibited
6-3-2-2: Unauthorized Utility Connections
6-3-2-3: Advertisements On Public Property
6-3-3: Offenses Involving Public Health And Safety
6-3-3-1: Crossing Or Tampering With Police And Fire Lines
6-3-3-2: Public Gatherings
6-3-3-3: Urinating Or Defecating In Public
6-3-3-4: Abandoned Refrigerators
6-3-3-5: Discharge Of Weapons
6-3-3-6: False Alarms
6-3-3-7: Aggressive Solicitation
6-3-4: Display Of Invalid License
6-3-1: OFFENSES INVOLVING THE PERSON:
6-3-1-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to
wilfully violate any of the following, and any person who shall violate any
provision of this section shall be charged with the offense of disorderly
conduct and, on conviction thereof, may be found guilty of disorderly conduct:
   A.   Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person
is placed in danger of the safety of his life, limb or health; or
   B.   Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the
property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged; or
   C.   Cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as
to endanger the life, limb and health or property of another; or
   D.   Use fighting words directed toward any person who becomes outraged and
thus creates a turmoil; or
   E.   By any acts of violence, interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful
occupation; or
   F.   Congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt
the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuse to clear such public way
when ordered by a police officer or other lawful authority. (1984 Code § 25-14)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 22-13.1.
6-3-1-2: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, certain terms are defined as
follows:
    NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genital, pubic area or
cleft of the buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of
the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the
nipple; the exposure of any device, costume or covering which gives the
appearance of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, natal cleft, perineum,
anal region or pubic hair region; or the exposure of any device worn as a cover
over the nipples and/or areola of the female breast, which devices simulate and
give the realistic appearance of nipples and/or areola; or the showing of the
covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any location frequented by the public, or where the public is
present, or likely to be present, where a person may reasonably be expected to
be observed by members of the public. Public places include, but are not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, parks, beaches, business and commercial
establishments (whether for profit or not for profit and whether open to the
public at large or where entrance is limited by a cover charge or membership
requirement), bottle clubs, hotels, motels, restaurants, nightclubs, country
clubs, cabarets and meeting facilities utilized by any religious, social,
fraternal or similar organizations. Premises used solely as a private
residence, whether permanent or temporary in nature, shall not be deemed to be
a public place. The term "public place" shall not include movie theaters,
theaters used for production of legitimate theater and theatrical productions,
enclosed single sex and unisex public restrooms, enclosed single sex and unisex
functional showers, locker and/or dressing room facilities, enclosed motel
rooms and hotel rooms designed and intended for sleeping accommodations,
doctors' offices, portions of hospitals and similar places in which nudity or
exposure is necessarily and customarily expected outside of the home and the
sphere of privacy constitutionally protected therein; nor shall it include a
person appearing in a state of nudity in a modeling class operated by:
A proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college, junior college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
A private college or university which maintains and operates educational
programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation or an accredited private
college.
   B.   Committing Public Indecency; Exception:
      1.   A person who knowingly or intentionally does any of the following in
a public place commits public indecency:
         a.   Engages in sexual intercourse;
         b.   Engages in deviate sexual intercourse;
         c.   Appears in a state of nudity; or
         d.   Fondles the genitals of himself or another person.
      2.   The prohibition set forth in subsection B1c of this section shall
not apply to:
         a.   Any child under ten (10) years of age; or
         b.   Any individual exposing a breast in the process of breastfeeding
an infant.
   C.   Abatement Of Nuisance: In addition to the specific penalties provided
in this section, it is hereby declared that any building, portion of a building
or enclosed place regularly used for the prohibited display of public nudity is
a public nuisance, subjecting the owner, proprietor or other operator thereof
to any and all actions authorized by state statute or city ordinance for the
abatement of public nuisances.
   D.   Construction: It is the intention of the city that the provisions of
this section be construed, enforced and interpreted in such a manner as will
cause the least possible infringement of the constitutional rights of free
speech, free expression, due process, equal protection or other fundamental
rights consistent with the purposes of this section. Should a court of
competent jurisdiction determine that any part of this section, or any
application or enforcement of it, is excessively restrictive of such rights or
liberties, then such portion of this section, or specific application of this
section, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full
force and effect. (Ord. 2121, 4-6-2004)
   E.   Penalty: Whoever violates any provision of this section, either by
commission of a public indecency, or by the promotion or maintenance of public
indecency as property owner, proprietor or manager of a business, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation continues is a separate offense.
(Ord. 2121, 4-6-2004; amd. 2005 Code)
6-3-1-3: LOITERING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Loitering; Cause For Alarm: No person shall loiter in a place, at a
time, for a duration, or in a manner not usual for law abiding individuals,
under circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in
the vicinity. Circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such
alarm is warranted include, but are not limited to, the fact that the actor
takes flight upon appearance of a peace officer, refuses to identify themself,
or manifestly endeavors to conceal themself, objects, or conduct. Unless flight
by the actor or other circumstances make it impracticable, a law enforcement
officer shall, prior to any arrest for any offense under this section, afford
the actor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted
by requesting the actor to identify themself and explain their presence and
conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the
law enforcement officer did not comply with the preceding sentence or if it
appears at trial that the explanation given by the actor was true and, if
believed by the law enforcement officer at the time, would have dispelled the
alarm.
   B.   Loitering In Public Parking Lots: No person shall loiter individually
or in a group or crowd in a public parking lot between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. without the express, written
permission of the mayor. A law enforcement officer shall notify any violator of
this section that they are in violation and allow them ten (10) minutes to
vacate the premises before making any arrests or issuing any citations.
   C.   Duty To Provide Information: Any person in violation of this section
shall provide the requesting law enforcement officer with sufficient
information to complete a summons and complaint.
   D.   Remedies For Violation: A law enforcement officer shall have the
authority to issue warnings, direct any violator of this section to vacate the
premises, and forward case reports to the city attorney for prosecution. A law
enforcement officer shall also have the additional authority to make an arrest
if a violator fails to comply with a law enforcement officer's lawful direction
or request for identifying information. (Ord. 2538, 5-2-2016)
6-3-2: OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY:
6-3-2-1: DAMAGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited Generally: No person shall wilfully damage, deface, break,
destroy or interfere with the property of the city or of another person. (1984
Code § 25-28)
   B.   Signs: No person shall deface, remove, change, mar or in any way
interfere with or obliterate, either wholly or in part, any sign, signboard or
card placed, posted, extended or erected by the city. (1984 Code § 25-29)
   C.   Trees And Plants:
      1.   No person shall wilfully injure, destroy or deface any tree, shrub,
plant or grass in any parking or park.
      2.   No person shall wilfully injure or destroy any cultivated fruits or
vegetables, ornamental trees, shrubs, hedges, vines or flowers nor injure or
carry off any of the products thereof which are the property of another. (1984
Code § 25-30)
   D.   City Property: No person shall climb or in any manner interfere with
any building, water tower, bridge or structure belonging to the city without
being authorized so to do by the city, and no person shall in any manner injure
or deface any such structure. (1984 Code § 25-12)
   E.   Light And Telephone Poles: No person shall interfere with, injure,
break or jar any electric light, telephone, telegraph or fire alarm system,
post or pole or apparatus in any manner or climb any telegraph, telephone,
electric light or fire alarm pole without being properly authorized so to do.
(1984 Code § 25-25)
6-3-2-2: UNAUTHORIZED UTILITY CONNECTIONS:
No person shall, without lawful authority, connect or cause to be connected,
with any main service pipe, wire or other conductor of any gas, water or
electrical energy, any pipe, wire or other device for the purpose of obtaining
gas, water or electrical current therefrom; nor shall, with intent to defraud,
any person connect or cause to be connected with any meter installed for the
purpose of registering the amount of gas, water or electricity supplied to any
customer, any pipe, wire or other device or disconnect, change or in any manner
so interfere with any such meter or any pipe, wire or appliance connected
therewith, that such meter will not measure or register the full amount of gas,
water or electricity supplied to any customer. (1984 Code § 25-21)
6-3-2-3: ADVERTISEMENTS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall put up, erect, hang, post or suffer to remain so placed any
sign, poster, notice or other advertising matter upon any telephone, telegraph
or electric light pole or other city owned property in the city. (1984 Code §
25-1; amd. 2005 Code)
6-3-3: OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY:
6-3-3-1: CROSSING OR TAMPERING WITH POLICE AND FIRE LINES:
   A.   No person, except authorized persons, shall cross, move, tamper with or
remain inside an "official police or fire line", which is hereby defined as any
line clearly marked by tape, rope, barricades, signs or a combination of any of
the above. In time of an emergency, the official police or fire line may be
established by a broken line (i.e., barricades, signs, police or fire personnel
placed a reasonable distance apart but which shall reasonably give notice to
the public that the same is an emergency police or fire line).
   B.   For the purpose of this section, an authorized person shall be any law
enforcement officer, any firefighter, an EMT, civil defense personnel all on
official business or civilian personnel designated to assist and who have
proper identification or other civilian personnel authorized to be within the
official police or fire line area by a police supervisor or a fire department
supervisor.
   C.   An official police or fire line shall be established at the direction
of a police officer or fire department officer in charge at the scene where the
official police or fire line is to be established. (Ord. 1499, 4-1-1985)
6-3-3-2: PUBLIC GATHERINGS 1 :
No person shall call or cause the gathering of any crowd of people or address
or exhibit any show or performance to such crowd in any alley, street or other
public ground of the city without the written permission of the mayor. (1984
Code § 25-31)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL §§ 22-10-9, 22-13-1.
6-3-3-3: URINATING OR DEFECATING IN PUBLIC:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city limits to wilfully urinate,
defecate or otherwise deposit human waste on any street, alley, public property
or in any place where it would be visible or likely to be visible to the public
or where it is likely to create an unsanitary condition 1 . (1984 Code § 25-23)
 
Notes
1 2. SDCL § 22-13-1.
6-3-3-4: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS:
No person shall abandon, discard or knowingly permit to remain on premises
under his control in a place accessible to children any abandoned or discarded
icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semiairtight container which has
capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more and an opening of fifty
(50) square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with hinge,
latch or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid without
rendering such equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or
semiairtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repair persons. (1984 Code § 25-22)
6-3-3-5: DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS 1 :
   A.   No person shall, within the city, wilfully discharge or shoot any gun,
pistol or other firearm, except within a firing range facility approved by the
chief of police. This section shall not prohibit the firing of blank charges as
part of a civic or military function such as a parade or funeral; nor prohibit
any law enforcement officer from discharging a firearm in the performance of
his duty; nor prohibit a citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully
defending persons or property.
   B.   No person shall wilfully discharge or shoot any BB gun or pellet gun,
including a paintball gun, in any manner or place within the city where the
same is likely to cause harm or injury to persons or property, or otherwise
create a nuisance or cause interference to persons or property. The term “BB
gun or pellet gun”, as used in this section, shall mean an air gun, air rifle,
spring loaded or gas powered gun that propels a BB or pellet, including any gun
that is not a firearm as defined in South Dakota Codified Laws 22-1-2(15). This
section shall not apply to any firing or archery range authorized by the city.
   C.   No person shall wilfully shoot, discharge or propel any arrow or other
projectile from any bow or other instrumentality capable of propelling an arrow
or other projectile with sufficient force to cause injury to persons or
property, in any manner or place within the city where the same is likely to
cause harm or injury to persons or property, or otherwise create a nuisance or
cause interference to persons or property. This section shall not apply to any
firing or archery range authorized by the city. (Ord. 2028, 9-4-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 22-14-7.
6-3-3-6: FALSE ALARMS:
No person shall knowingly make or give any false alarm of fire or other
emergency by calling or causing to be called the fire department, police
officers or any authorized emergency vehicles or services. (1984 Code § 25-16;
amd. 2005 Code)
6-3-3-7: AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION:
   A.   Definitions Of Terms Used Within This Section:
    AGGRESSIVE MANNER: 1. Approaching or speaking to a person, or following a
person before, during or after soliciting if that conduct is intended or is
likely to a reasonable person to cause fear of bodily harm to oneself or to
another, or fear of damage to or loss of property, or which is otherwise
intimidating for the purpose of obtaining money or other thing(s) of value from
a solicited person;
      2.   Continuing to solicit a person after the person has given a negative
response to the solicitation;
      3.   Intentionally touching or causing physical contact with another
person without that person's consent in the course of soliciting;
      4.   Intentionally blocking or interfering with the safe or free passage
of a pedestrian or vehicle operator by any means, including unreasonably
causing a pedestrian or vehicle operator to take evasive action to avoid
physical contact;
      5.   Using violent or threatening gestures toward the person solicited;
      6.   Following the person being solicited, with the intent of asking that
person for money or other thing(s) of value;
      7.   Speaking in a volume unreasonably loud under the circumstances;
      8.   Soliciting money from anyone who is waiting in line for entry to a
building or for another purpose.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE: A device, linked to a financial institutions'
account records, which is able to carry out transactions, including, but not
limited to, account transfers, deposits, cash withdrawals, balance inquiry, and
mortgage and loan payments.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any bank, credit union, savings and loan or other
similar business.
   PUBLIC PLACE: A place where a governmental entity has title, to which the
public or a substantial group of persons has access, including, but not limited
to, any street, highway, parking lot, play area, transportation facility,
school, place of amusement, park or playground.
   SOLICITING: Asking for money or objects of value with the intention that the
money or object be transferred at that time and at that place. "Soliciting"
shall include using the spoken, written or printed word, bodily gestures, signs
or other means with the purpose of obtaining an immediate donation of money or
other thing(s) of value or soliciting the sale of goods or services.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   No person shall solicit in an aggressive manner in any public place.
      2.   No person shall solicit on private or residential property without
having first obtained permission from the owner or other person lawfully in
possession of the property.
      3.   No person shall solicit within twenty feet (20') of the entrance or
exit of any financial institution or within twenty feet (20') of an automated
teller machine without the consent of the owner of the property or other person
legally in possession of the facilities.
      4.   No person shall solicit an operator or occupant of a motor vehicle
on a public street in exchange for blocking, occupying or reserving a public
parking space, or by directing the vehicle operator or occupant to a public
parking space.
      5.   No person shall solicit by stating that funds are needed to meet a
specific need, when the solicitor has the funds to meet that need, does not
intend to use the funds for that need, or does not have that need.
      6.   No person shall solicit while under the influence of alcohol or an
illegal controlled substance.
      7.   No person shall solicit in any public transportation vehicle or at
any bus stop or in any public parking lot or structure.
      8.   No person shall solicit within six feet (6') of an entrance to a
building.
      9.   No person shall solicit any time before sunrise or any time after
sunset.
      10.   No person shall solicit within twenty feet (20') of any public
restroom facility.
   C.   Penalties: Upon conviction of a violation of the provisions of this
section, the violator shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Charitable Solicitations Not Impaired: This section shall not be
construed in a manner which will constrain or impair or result in constraint or
impairment of solicitations for legitimate nonprofit or charitable purpose.
   E.   Severance: Should any section, sentence, clause or phrase in this
section be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, it shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions
of this section. (Ord. 2475, 6-2-2014)
6-3-4: DISPLAY OF INVALID LICENSE:
No person shall carry or display any city license or permit which has been
terminated or revoked or which has not been lawfully procured and issued. (1984
Code § 25-24)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Curfew
6-4-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: No minor under the age of sixteen (16) years
shall be or remain in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds,
public grounds, public places, public buildings, public places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised public places within the city
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on
Sunday through Thursday nor between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Fridays and Saturdays.
   B.   Exemptions: Provisions of this section imposing curfew on minors shall
not apply to a minor accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an
emergency errand or business directed or authorized, in writing, by his parent,
guardian or such adult person having the care and custody of the minor. Said
authorization shall be on file with the police department or in the personal
possession of the minor.
   C.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It shall be unlawful for the
parents, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor
under the age of sixteen (16) years to knowingly permit such minor to be or
remain in or upon public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, public grounds,
public places, public buildings, public places of amusement or entertainment,
vacant lots or other unsupervised public places within the city between the
hours listed in subsection A of this section, except when the minor is
accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of the minor or when the minor is upon an emergency errand or business
directed or authorized, in writing, by his parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor. Said authorization must be on
file with the police department or in the personal possession of the minor.
   D.   Detainment By Police: It shall be the right of any authorized officer
or person to detain or take into custody any minor violating the curfew and to
keep said minor detained until his parent, guardian or custodian is notified,
when said minor may be released upon the giving of a promise by the minor and
his parent, guardian or custodian that such minor, together with his parent,
guardian or custodian, will appear at a stated time before the proper authority
to answer the charges. (1984 Code § 25-13)
CHAPTER 5
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
6-5-1: City Policy And Purpose
6-5-2: Discriminatory Practices Enumerated
6-5-3: Enforcement
6-5-4: Grievance Procedures
6-5-1: CITY POLICY AND PURPOSE:
It is the public policy of the city and the purpose of this chapter to prevent
and prohibit any and all discriminatory practices based on race, color,
religion or national origin with respect to housing accommodations, property
rights or the financing thereof, to protect all persons from unfounded charges
of discriminatory practices and to effectuate the foregoing policy by means of
public information, education, mediation, conciliation and enforcement. (1984
Code § 17-2)
6-5-2: DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES ENUMERATED:
It shall be a discriminatory practice to:
   A.   Refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion or national
origin.
   B.   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or privileges
of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or facilities
in connection therewith because of race, color, religion or national origin.
   C.   Make, print or publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion or national origin or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation or discrimination.
   D.   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion or national
origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental when
such dwelling is, in fact, so available.
   E.   For profit, induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any
dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into the
neighborhood of a person of a particular race, color, religion or national
origin.
   F.   Deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor
for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the
amount, interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or
other financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion or national
origin of such person or of any person associated with him in connection with
such loan or other financial assistance or of the present or prospective
owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling in relation to which such
loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given. (1984 Code § 17-2)
6-5-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The department of community development is hereby designated as the agency
responsible for carrying forward these policies. (1984 Code § 17-2)
6-5-4: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by a discriminatory practice may
file with the department of community development a verified written complaint,
which shall state the name and address of each person complained against
(respondent) and shall set forth the pertinent facts as known to the
complainant. Whenever the department has information indicating that any person
has discriminated, it may issue and file a verified complaint.
   B.   Promptly upon the filing of any complaint, the department shall serve a
copy thereof by personal service or registered or certified mail upon the
respondent. Respondent shall file a verified written answer thereto within ten
(10) days after receipt thereof.
   C.   The department shall proceed to make such investigation as it may deem
appropriate to determine whether there is probable cause to believe that the
allegations of discrimination are well founded. If there is no probable cause
to believe that the allegations of discrimination are well founded, the
department shall dismiss the complaint. If there is probable cause to believe
that the allegations of discrimination are well founded, and the matter has not
been satisfactorily resolved, the parties shall be served notice of the time
and place of a conciliation conference, by personal service or registered or
certified mail, at least five (5) days prior thereto.
   D.   The conciliation conference shall be conducted by a conciliation
conference panel which shall be composed of three (3) conferees, none of whom
shall have been involved in the investigation or the determination of probable
cause, appointed by the mayor. The conferees shall attempt to achieve a just
resolution and obtain assurances that the respondent will eliminate unfair or
discriminatory practices and take appropriate affirmative action. The
settlement terms shall be set forth in a conciliation agreement which shall be
signed by complainant, respondent and the chair of the conciliation conference
panel.
   E.   At any point in the proceedings where it is determined that the
allegations of discrimination do not appear to be well founded or that the act
or practice complained of has been satisfactorily eliminated and that further
proceedings are unnecessary, the department may, forthwith, order the dismissal
of the complaint and shall, within five (5) days of such determination, serve
notice of said order upon the complainant and respondent by personal service or
registered or certified mail.
   F.   If a respondent fails to agree to terms of conciliation, and if the
conferees determine that the allegations of discrimination are well founded,
they shall make such recommendations as they deem proper under the
circumstances and shall, within five (5) days, serve notice of their
recommendations upon the complainant and respondent, by personal service or
registered or certified mail, and deliver all of their files and records and
recommendations to the city attorney for such procedure as the city attorney
finds appropriate in a court of competent jurisdiction for violation of the
terms of this chapter.
   G.   Any complaint filed under this chapter shall be filed within ninety
(90) days after the alleged discrimination or unfair practice occurred. (1984
Code § 17-2)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Rules And Regulations
7-1-3: Obedience To Police And Fire Officials
7-1-4: Parking Violations
7-1-5: Summons Or Notice To Appear
7-1-6: Certain Powers And Duties Reserved By Council
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS 1 :
For the proposes of this title, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the fire department, police vehicles
and such other emergency vehicles as are designated or authorized by the chief
of police or designated representative.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to a street when fifty percent
(50%) or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of three hundred feet
(300') or more is occupied by buildings in use for business.
CROSSWALK: That portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation of curb and property lines at intersections, whether or not
marked, or any other portion of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian
crossing, by lines or other markings on the surface.
CURB: The extreme edge or lateral boundary of a roadway, whether marked by
curbing or not so marked.
DEPARTMENT: The police department of the city.
DOUBLE PARKING: The standing of a vehicle upon a street at the rear of another
vehicle which is parked diagonally at the curb, or the standing of a vehicle
upon a street alongside and parallel to another vehicle which is parked
parallel to the curb.
INTERSECTION: That part of a street where a street joins another at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other street, and shall include the full width of
the street, between the curb lines, extended, of the intersecting streets.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including motorcycles and
mopeds.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS: All signals, not inconsistent with this title, placed
or erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for
the purpose of directing, warning or regulating traffic.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS: All signs, markings and devices, other than signals,
not inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of directing, guiding,
warning or regulating traffic.
OPERATOR: Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon a
roadway, otherwise than temporarily, for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading or in obedience of traffic regulations or
traffic signs or signals.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for vehicular travel.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to a street not comprising a
business district when the frontage on such street for a distance of three
hundred feet (300') or more is mainly occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and
buildings in use for residence.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the street.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street between the regularly established curb lines
or that part devoted to vehicular traffic.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines.
THROUGH STREET: That portion of any street or avenue upon which travel is not
controlled by stop signs or signals and entrance upon which from intersecting
streets is controlled by stop signs.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS: Any device using colored lights or words or any
combination thereof, whether manually or mechanically operated, by which
traffic is alternately directed to stop and proceed.
TRUCK: Any motor vehicle which is used primarily for the transportation of
goods, materials, merchandise or other commodities and which is not used
primarily for the transportation of passengers.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks; provided, that for the purpose of
this title, a bicycle or a ridden animal shall be deemed a vehicle. (1984 Code
§ 23-1)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-14-1.
7-1-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: No person shall violate any rule, regulation,
traffic direction, sign or marking adopted, prescribed or established in
accordance with the provisions of this title, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. (1984 Code § 23-2)
   B.   Effect: No supplemental traffic rule or regulation for which signs are
required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if, at the time and
placed of the alleged violation, the required sign is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. (1984
Code § 23-112)
7-1-3: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the police department to enforce the provisions
of this title. Officers of the police department are hereby authorized to
direct all traffic, either in person or by means of visible or audible signal,
in conformance with the provisions of this title; provided, that in the event
of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the police or fire departments may direct traffic, as conditions
may require, not withstanding the provisions of this title.
   B.   No person shall refuse or fail to comply with any lawful order, signal
or direction of a police officer. (1984 Code § 23-3)
7-1-4: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Report Of Violation: In the event that any vehicle is found parked in
violation of the provisions of this title, it shall be the duty of any police
officer or parking patrol to report:
      1.   The location where such parking violation has occurred.
      2.   The state license number of such vehicle.
      3.   The time when such vehicle is parked in violation of the provisions
of this title.
      4.   Any other facts, a knowledge of which is necessary or helpful to a
thorough understanding of the circumstances of such violation.
   B.   Notice Of Violation: Each police officer or parking patrol shall attach
to such vehicle a notice and deposit envelope, notifying the operator thereof
that such vehicle has been parked in violation of the provisions of this title,
and instructing the owner or operator of such vehicle to report to the office
of the city finance officer in regard to such violation.
   C.   Duty Of Owner Or Operator Receiving Notice: The owner or operator of
each vehicle found in violation of the parking provisions of this title may,
within seventy two (72) hours of the time when the notice of violation was
attached to such vehicle, pay to the finance officer, as a penalty for and in
full satisfaction of such violation, such sum as may be fixed by resolution of
the city council from time to time. The failure of such owner or operator to
make such payment within said seventy two (72) hours shall render such owner or
operator subject to citation and arrest for such violation and subject to the
penalties provided for violation of the provisions of this code 1 .
   D.   Dispute Of Allegation: Any person wishing to contest the alleged
violation stated on a notice may contact the chief of police or his designated
representative for resolution of dispute or for the issuance of a summons or
notice to appear in accordance with section
7-1-5 of this chapter.
   E.   Fines Set By City Council: Unless otherwise provided, the city council,
by resolution, may from time to time establish fines and penalties for parking
violations including, but not limited to, overtime parking, improper parking,
double parking, prohibited parking, obstructing snow removal or for violation
of the provisions of emergency snow routes or provisions prescribing parking
restrictions during periods of snow removal 2 . (Ord. 1616, 11-21-1988)
   F.   Impoundment: Any vehicle parked or left standing on any street, highway
or public grounds of the city in violation of any of the provisions of this
title or other parking ordinances, shall be deemed to constitute a public
nuisance, and the police department is hereby authorized to abate any such
nuisance by the impounding of such vehicle and the removal and storage of same.
For the purpose of impounding, removing and storing any vehicle so parked, the
chief of police shall have the authority to contract with a bonded or insured
towing service for the removal and storage of such vehicle. The owner or
operator of any such vehicle so impounded shall be liable for the costs of
towing or storage in addition to any fine or penalty which shall be assessed
against him. (1984 Code § 23-51)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code.
2 2. See chapters 4 and 6 of this title.
7-1-5: SUMMONS OR NOTICE TO APPEAR:
Except as otherwise provided, whenever a person is arrested for a violation of
any provision of this title punishable as a misdemeanor, the arresting officer
shall issue a summons or otherwise notify such person, in writing, to appear at
a time and place to be specified in the summons or notice, in accordance with
the procedures provided in South Dakota Compiled Laws chapter 32-33. (Ord.
1616, 11-21-1988)
7-1-6: CERTAIN POWERS AND DUTIES RESERVED BY COUNCIL:
   A.   For traffic matters, the city council hereby reserves to itself the
powers and duties set out in the further subsections of this section. For other
traffic matters where the council has not reserved authority, where authority
has not been granted to another public body, and where city council action is
not otherwise required, the mayor may establish policies and direct appropriate
departments to address such other traffic matters.
   B.   Establish And Maintain Traffic Signs, Signals And Markings: The city
council shall have the following powers, duties, and authority:
      1.   To place and maintain or cause to be placed and maintained all
official traffic signs and signals required by title 7 of this code. All signs
and signals required for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be
uniform as to type and location throughout the city.
      2.   To establish and to designate and thereafter maintain or cause to be
maintained by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the
roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in its opinion, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such other places as it may
deem necessary.
      3.   To determine those intersections at which operators of vehicles
shall not make a left turn and to place proper signs at such intersections.
      4.   To determine the location of truck loading zones and erect and
maintain or cause to be erected and maintained appropriate signs indicating the
same.
      5.   To establish bus and taxicab stands in such places as it shall
consider to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and every
such bus and taxicab stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
      6.   To determine upon what streets angle parking shall be permitted and
to mark or sign such streets or cause the same to be marked or signed.
      7.   To place and maintain or cause to be placed and maintained on each
and every street intersecting a through street, as designated in title 7 of
this code, and at or near the property line of the through street, appropriate
signs, devices or markers, bearing the word "stop" and to be located in such a
position and to be provided with letters of a size to be clearly legible from a
distance of at least one hundred feet (100') along the line of the intersecting
street. All such signs shall be illuminated at night, or so placed that they
shall be illuminated by street lights, or by the headlights of approaching
motor vehicles.
      8.   To erect and maintain signs in each block designating any time
limits on parking therein.
      9.   To place turning markers within or at the entrance to intersections,
directing the traffic turning to the left to follow a line of travel other than
that as directed in title 7 of this code.
      10.   To determine and designate, by proper signs, the route of travel to
be used by semi-trailers and large trucks.
      11.   To determine in what streets or alleys only one way traffic shall
be allowed and to cause such streets or alleys to be marked with appropriate
signs.
   C.    Issue Special Permits: The city council may issue special permits for
the following purposes:
      1.   Delivery Vehicles: To issue to any owner of a vehicle used to
transport merchandise or material a special permit, renewable annually, and to
state therein the terms and conditions thereof, allowing the operator of such
vehicle the privilege of standing or parking in the central business district
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. for
the purpose of unloading and delivering or pick up and loading of merchandise
or materials if, in the opinion of the traffic commission, such privilege is
reasonably necessary in the conduct of the owner's business and will not
seriously interfere with traffic. Such special permit may be revoked by the
traffic commission at any time if, in its opinion, the conditions of such
permit are not fulfilled in good faith by the owner of such vehicle or by his
agents.
      2.   Semitrailer Parking: To issue to the owner of any semitrailer used
in the transportation of merchandise or materials a special permit, renewable
annually, and to state therein the terms and conditions thereof, allowing the
owners such vehicle the privilege of standing or parking in the central
business district, parallel to the curb between the hours of twelve o'clock
(12:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M., for the purpose of unloading or
pick up of merchandise or material if, in the opinion of the traffic
commission, such privilege is reasonably necessary to the conduct of business
and will not seriously interfere with the traffic. Such permit may be revoked
by the traffic commission if, in its opinion, the conditions of such permit are
not complied with.
      3.   Loading And Unloading At Curb: To issue to any owner of a vehicle
used to transport merchandise or materials a special permit, renewable
annually, and to state therein the terms and conditions thereof, allowing the
operator of such vehicle the privilege of loading and unloading while the
vehicle is backed against the curb if, in the opinion of the traffic
commission, such privilege is reasonably necessary in the conduct of the
owner's business and will not seriously interfere with traffic. (Ord. O2019-18,
9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Signs And Signals Designated By City Council
7-2-2: Traffic Control Signal Legend
7-2-1: SIGNS AND SIGNALS DESIGNATED BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city council shall, by resolution, determine and designate the character
and type of all official signs and signals to be in compliance with state
uniform traffic signs and signals. (1984 Code § 23-13; amd. 2005 Code)
7-2-2: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND 1 :
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting
successively, one at a time, the color green for go, yellow or amber for
caution, red for stop or flashing signals, traffic shall be regulated and
controlled thereby as follows. Any person operating a vehicle contrary to the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation hereof.
   A.   Green Means Go:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a green signal may proceed straight through
or may turn right or left if the traffic control signal is at an intersection
unless such turn at such place be otherwise prohibited, but vehicular traffic
shall yield the right of way to other vehicles and pedestrians lawfully within
the roadway intersection or crosswalk controlled by the signal at the time such
signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the green signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   B.   Yellow Or Amber Means Caution:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the yellow or amber signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk, except that if such stop cannot be made
in safety, a vehicle may be cautiously driven through the roadway, intersection
or crosswalk controlled by the signal.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the yellow or amber signal are thereby advised
that there is not enough time to cross the roadway, and they shall remain on
the curb line and not proceed across the roadway controlled by the signal until
the next green signal appears.
   C.   Red Means Stop:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the red signal shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line, when marked, and
shall remain standing and shall not enter the intersection or roadway to the
front until the green signal is shown unless the traffic commission 2  shall,
by resolution, authorize a right turn and shall cause to be placed proper signs
indicating such permission.
      2.   Pedestrians facing a red signal shall not proceed across the roadway
to the front until the next green signal appears.
   D.   Flashing Red Signal Means Stop: Vehicular traffic facing the flashing
red signal shall first stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an
intersection or a limit line when marked and then proceed with caution and with
regard to the rules of right of way.
   E.   Flashing Yellow Signal Means Caution: Vehicular traffic facing the
yellow or amber signal may proceed through the intersection or pass such signal
only with caution. (1984 Code § 23-14)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-28-1 et seq.
2 1. See title 3, chapter 6 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
RULES OF THE ROAD
SECTION:
7-3-1: Emergency Vehicles
7-3-2: Turning Movements
7-3-3: Speed Restrictions
7-3-4: Direction Of Driving And Roadway Lanes
7-3-5: Overtaking Vehicles
7-3-6: Drivers' Signals
7-3-7: Stop And Yield Intersections
7-3-8: General Restrictions On Driving
7-3-9: Parades And Processions
7-3-10: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-3-11: Restricted Access Alley
7-3-1: EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation Upon Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle 1 : Upon
approach of any authorized emergency vehicle giving audible signal by bell,
siren or whistle or giving visual signal by flashing of its emergency lights,
the operator of every other vehicle shall immediately drive the same to a
position as near as possible and parallel to the right hand edge or curb of the
street and shall stop and remain at such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle shall have passed unless otherwise directed by a police
officer. (1984 Code § 23-19)
   B.   Following Fire Apparatus 2 : No operator of any vehicle, other than one
on official business, shall follow closer than five hundred feet (500') of any
fire vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm or drive into or stop any
vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a
fire alarm. (1984 Code § 23-18)
   C.   Crossing Fire Hose: No person shall drive any vehicle over any
unprotected hose of the fire department when laid down on any street or private
driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire without the consent of the
fire department official in charge. (1984 Code § 23-6)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL §§ 32-31-6, 32-31-6.1.
2 2. SDCL § 32-31-7.
7-3-2: TURNING MOVEMENTS 1 :
   A.   No operator of a vehicle shall execute a turn except in accordance with
the following:
      1.   Right Turns:
         a.   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the right at an
intersection or into an alley or driveway shall approach the point of turning
in the right hand lane of the roadway and, in turning, shall keep as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the street.
         b.   The driver of a vehicle intending to make a right turn at an
intersection where a red traffic control light is illuminated must bring his
vehicle to a full stop in compliance with the red light and, after yielding to
any oncoming traffic, may proceed to make a right turn at any such intersection
within the city, except where it is indicated by an appropriate traffic sign
that such turning procedures are not allowed at the particular intersection.
The city council is hereby empowered to authorize the placement and maintenance
of the appropriate signs indicating that the turning procedure described herein
is not allowed at any intersection it deems necessary for the purpose of
protecting the health, safety and welfare of citizens of the city or the
effective control of city traffic. (1984 Code § 23-26)
Any person violating the provisions of this subsection A1b shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 23-26; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Left Turns:
         a.   The driver of the vehicle intending to turn left at any
intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in
such direction upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left
turn should be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the
center of the intersection. In the event turning markers directing the flow of
traffic are posted, traffic turning to the left shall follow the course
directed by such markers. (1984 Code § 23-26)
         b.   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn
to the left shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded and having
given a signal when and as is required by the applicable rules of the road, may
make such left turn, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection from said opposite direction shall yield the right of way to the
vehicle making the turn. (1984 Code § 23-27)
      3.   Proper Position To Turn: No person shall turn a vehicle at any
intersection or alley unless the vehicle is in the proper position upon the
roadway as required by subsections A1 and A2 of this section.
      4.   Signal Required: A signal of intention to turn right or left, when
required, shall be given continuously during not less than the last one hundred
feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before turning. (1984 Code § 23-26)
   B.   U-Turns: A vehicle may make a U-turn so as to proceed in the opposite
direction on any street or highway within the corporate limits of the city so
long as such U-turn is made without interfering with other traffic, except that
a U-turn may not be performed where a location is specifically marked with
signage prohibiting a U-turn. (1984 Code § 23-37; amd. Ord. O2019-12, 9-3-2019;
Ord. O2019-18, 9-3-2019)
 
Notes
1 3. SDCL § 32-26-17.
7-3-3: SPEED RESTRICTIONS 1 :
No person shall drive a vehicle upon any street, alley or public place in the
city at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing, and it shall be prima facie unlawful and prima facie evidence
that the speed is not reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing
for the driver of any vehicle or motor vehicle to drive the same upon any
street, alley or public place in the city at a speed exceeding the following:
   A.   Fifteen Miles Per Hour:
      1.   When approaching within fifty feet (50') of a grade crossing of any
railway when the driver's view is obstructed. The driver's view shall be deemed
to be obstructed when, at any time during the last two hundred feet (200') of
his approach to such crossing, he does not have a clear and uninterrupted view
of such railway crossing and of any traffic on such railway for a distance of
four hundred feet (400') in each direction for such crossing.
      2.   When passing a school during school recess or while children are
going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours.
      3.   When approaching within fifty feet (50') and in traversing an
intersection of highways when the driver's view is obstructed. A driver's view
shall be deemed to be obstructed when, at the time during the last fifty feet
(50') of his approach to such intersection, he does not have a clear and
uninterrupted view of such intersection and of the traffic upon all of the
highways entering such intersection for a distance of two hundred feet (200')
from such intersection.
      4.   In traversing or going around curves or traversing a grade upon a
highway when the driver's view is obstructed within a distance of one hundred
feet (100') along such highway in the direction in which he is proceeding.
   B.   Twenty Miles Per Hour: Within the business district of the city, except
upon state highways which shall have the speed limit posted thereon.
   C.   Twenty Five Miles Per Hour: Within the residence district of the city,
except upon state highways which shall have the speed limit posted thereon.
   D.   Exceeding Speed Limit Generally: Exceeding the posted speed limit on
any roadway, street or highway within the jurisdiction of the city. (1984 Code
§ 23-29)
   E.   No person shall drive any vehicle at an unnecessarily slow rate of
speed so as to hinder and retard the traffic. (1984 Code § 23-32)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-25-1 et seq., and § 32-14-3 et seq.
7-3-4: DIRECTION OF DRIVING AND ROADWAY LANES 1 :
   A.   Driving On Right Side Of Street: The operator of a vehicle shall drive
the same upon the right half on the street except upon one way streets, and the
operator of a slow moving vehicle shall drive the same as close as possible to
the right hand edge or curb of the street unless it is impractical to travel on
such side of the street and except when overtaking or passing another vehicle
subject to limitations applicable by law in overtaking and passing. (1984 Code
§ 23-30)
   B.   Lane Driving Required; Changing Lanes: On roadways divided into lanes,
a vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a single
lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety. (1984 Code § 23-31)
   C.   Procedure Upon Being Overtaken By Another Vehicle: The operator of a
vehicle upon a street, about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
approaching from the rear, shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle, on suitable and audible signal being given by the driver of
the overtaking vehicle, and shall not increase the speed of his vehicle until
completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (1984 Code § 23-32)
   D.   Traffic On One Way Streets And Alleys: Whenever the city council shall
determine a street or alley to be a one way traffic street or alley and shall
cause said street or alley to be marked with the appropriate signs giving
notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle in
violation of the markings, signs, barriers or other devices placed in
accordance with the provision of this subsection. (1984 Code § 23-38)
   E.   Exempt One Way Traffic: Notwithstanding subsection D of this section,
the city council may, upon request, exempt requesting companies, organizations,
or other entities from one way traffic requirements upon a showing of good
cause. If approved, the finance office shall issue an exemption permit listing
the duration, extent, limitations, and conditions of the approval. Permits
shall be subject to revocation for violation of the permit's terms. (Ord.
O2017-05, 5-1-2017; amd. Ord. O2019-18, 9-3-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-26-1 et seq.
7-3-5: OVERTAKING VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   Overtaking On The Left: The operator of any vehicle overtaking another
vehicle proceeding in the same direction shall pass at a safe distance to the
left thereof but only when such left side is clearly visible and is free from
oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and
passing to be made in safety and shall not cut in front of the overtaken
vehicle until safely clear of same; except, no such passing shall occur through
an intersection. (1984 Code § 23-33)
   B.   Overtaking On The Right: The driver of a motor vehicle may overtake and
pass to the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      1.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn.
      2.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient
width for two (2) or more lanes of moving vehicles in each direction.
      3.   Upon a one way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement where the roadway is free from
obstructions and is of sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving
vehicles.
The driver a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the right only
under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event shall such
movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled portion of the
roadway. (1984 Code § 23-34)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-26-26 et seq.
7-3-6: DRIVERS' SIGNALS 1 :
   A.   Signals Required: No person shall turn, stop or suddenly decrease the
speed of the vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal, either by
means of hand and arm in the manner specified hereafter or by approved
mechanical or electrical signal device, to all other drivers in the immediate
vicinity who may be affected by the turn, sudden decrease in speed or stop of
his vehicle.
   B.   Hand And Arm Signals: Whenever the signal required herein is given by
means of the hand and arm, the driver shall indicate his intention to turn,
stop or decrease speed by extending the hand and arm from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall indicate as follows:
 
Left turn              Hand and arm extended horizontally
Right turn             Hand and arm extended upward
Stop or decrease speed Hand and arm extended downward
 
(1984 Code § 23-35)
 
Notes
1 2. SDCL § 32-26-23 et seq.
7-3-7: STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS 1 :
   A.   Procedure Upon Approaching Stop Sign: The driver of a vehicle
approaching a stop sign shall, in obedience to such sign, stop and shall yield
the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is
driving and shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or
approaching the intersection as crossing traffic. The driver of the vehicle
stopped at the stop sign may proceed only when the same can be done without
interfering with the right-of-way of any crossing traffic or any pedestrian
crossing the roadway; provided, that if such driver is involved in a collision
with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection after driving
past the stop sign, with or without stopping, such a collision shall be deemed
prima facie evidence of his failure to yield the right-of- way. (1984 Code §
23-16)
   B.   Procedure Upon Approaching Yield Sign: The driver of a vehicle
approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience to such sign, slow down to a speed
reasonable for the existing conditions or shall stop, if necessary, and shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which
he is driving and shall yield to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching
on another highway, and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the
intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding; provided, that if such
driver is involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a vehicle
in the intersection after driving past the yield sign without stopping, such
collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his failure to yield the
right-of-way. (1984 Code § 23-15)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-26-3.
7-3-8: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING:
   A.   Emerging From Alley Or Private Drive: The operator of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto a sidewalk area extending
across such alleyway. (1984 Code § 23-28)
   B.   Driving On Parkings Or Sidewalks: No person shall drive any vehicle or
motor vehicle upon any sidewalk or parking or permit such vehicle to be driven
or remain on any sidewalk or parking, except in crossing at a permanent or
temporary driveway. This subsection does not apply to bicycles as defined in
section
7-8-1 of this title. (1984 Code § 23-36; amd. Ord. O2019-03, 4-15-2019, eff. 7-
1-2019)
   C.   Following Too Closely: The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
for the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and condition of the
roadway. (1984 Code § 23-20)
   D.   Unsafe Backing: The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless
such movement can be made in a safe manner and without interfering with other
traffic. (1984 Code § 23-21)
7-3-9: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements: No parade or procession, other than a funeral
procession, shall be held or participated in upon the streets of the City
except with the prior consent, in writing, of the Chief of Police or designated
representative obtained upon application filed with the department setting
forth the time of, route of, approximate number of persons and vehicles to
participate in and the names and character of the group or organization
sponsoring such parade or procession.
The consent of the Chief of Police or designated representative to the holding
of such parade or procession shall be given unless it reasonably appears that
the holding of the same set out in the application would unreasonably obstruct
and impede the traffic or would be likely to disturb the peace and quiet of the
City. (1984 Code § 23-7)
   B.   Driving Through Processions Prohibited: No operator of any vehicle
shall drive between vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession while they are in motion, provided that such vehicles are
conspicuously so designated. These provisions shall not apply at intersections
where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals or a police officer.
(1984 Code § 23-8)
7-3-10: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Exhibition Driving: No person shall drive a vehicle within the city in
such a manner that creates or causes unnecessary engine noise, tire squeal,
skid or slide upon acceleration or stopping or that simulates a temporary race
or that causes the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway. (1984 Code §
23-22)
   B.   Careless Driving 1 : Any person who drives a vehicle within the city
carelessly and without due caution, at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger
any person or property, not amounting to reckless driving, is guilty of
careless driving. (Ord. 1819, 8-21-1995)
   C.   Reckless Driving 2 : Any person who drives any vehicle within the
limits of the city carelessly and heedlessly in disregard of the rights or
safety of others or without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in
a manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property
shall be guilty of reckless driving. (1984 Code § 23-24)
   D.   Racing Vehicles: The following words and phrases, as used in this
subsection, shall have the meanings ascribed to them herein:
      1.   Definitions:
    DRAG RACE: The operation of two (2) or more vehicles from a point side by
side at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to outdistance each other
or the operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected course from the
same point to the same point for the purpose of comparing the relative speeds
or power of acceleration of such vehicle or vehicles within a certain distance
or time limit.
   RACING: The use of one or more vehicles in an attempt to outgain,
outdistance or prevent another vehicle from passing to arrive at a given
destination ahead of another vehicle or vehicles or to test the physical
stamina or endurance of drivers over long distance driving routes.
      2.   Prohibitions: No person shall drive any vehicle in any race on a
street or highway, speed competition or contest, drag race or acceleration
test, test of physical endurance, exhibition of speed or acceleration or for
the purpose of making a speed record, and no person shall, in any manner
participate in any such race, competition, contest, test or exhibition. (1984
Code § 23-25)
   E.   Clinging To Motor Vehicles: No person traveling on any bicycle,
coaster, sled, roller skates or any toy vehicle shall cling to, be drawn by or
attach his vehicle to any other moving vehicle upon any roadway. (1984 Code §
23-5)
   F.   Riding On Outside Of Vehicle: No person shall ride upon the running
boards, fenders, roof, trunk or hood of any motor vehicle in motion or on the
edge of the box on any pickup or truck while the same is in motion. (1984 Code
§ 23-9)
   G.   Texting While Driving Prohibited:
      1.   Definitions:
    ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE: A mobile communication device
that uses shortwave analog or digital radio transmissions or satellite
transmissions between the device and a transmitter to permit wireless telephone
communications to and from the user of the device within a specified area.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE VEHICLE: Any ambulance, fire department, law enforcement,
or civil defense vehicle or other vehicle used primarily for emergency
purposes.
   VOICE OPERATED OR HANDS FREE TECHNOLOGY: Technology that allows a user to
write, send or read a text based communication without the use of either hand
except to activate, deactivate or initiate a feature or function.
   WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT BASED COMMUNICATION: Using an electronic
wireless communications device to manually communicate with any person using
text based communication including communications referred to as a text
message, instant message, or electronic mail.
      2.   Prohibitions: No person may operate a motor vehicle on a public
roadway while using a handheld electronic wireless communication device to
write, send, or read a text based communication. This subsection does not apply
to a person who is using a handheld electronic wireless communication device:
         a.   While the vehicle is lawfully parked;
         b.   To contact an emergency response vehicle or any public safety
answering point or dispatch center;
         c.   To write, read, select or enter a telephone number or name in an
electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of making or
receiving a telephone call; or
         d.   When using voice operated or hands free technology.
      3.   Penalty: Any person who operates a motor vehicle within the
jurisdictional limits of the city of Mitchell, South Dakota, in violation of
this subsection, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2433, 4-15-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-24-8.
2 1. SDCL § 32-24-1 et seq.
7-3-11: RESTRICTED ACCESS ALLEY:
The plated alley located within block 9, original town (now city) of Mitchell,
is hereby designated and established as a restricted access alley. Vehicle
access through and upon said alley shall be limited to persons who are either
business operators or employees of the business locations served by said alley
and service vehicles legitimately engaged in delivery of goods or other service
provisions in respect to the business locations served by said alley. A sign
shall be placed at the entrance to the alley advising the public of the access
restrictions applying to said alley. Persons entering said alley in violation
of this section shall be subject to citation and fine in the sum of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per violation. (Ord. 1802, 5-1-1995)
CHAPTER 4
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING 1
SECTION:
7-4-1: Method Of Parking
7-4-2: No Parking Places
7-4-3: General Parking Restrictions
7-4-4: Truck Parking
7-4-5: Handicap Parking Spaces
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-30-1 et seq.
7-4-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
Except when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or
signals, no operator of a vehicle shall stop, stand or park such vehicle: a) in
a roadway other than parallel with the curb or to the edge of the roadway,
headed in the direction of traffic and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle
within six inches (6") of the edge of the roadway and leaving a space of not
less than three feet (3') between such vehicle and vehicles parked in front of
and behind such vehicles, except that upon those streets which have been marked
or signed for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb
indicated by such marks or signs; or b) in a manner inconsistent with the
designated parking markings in any parking lot and which substantially impairs
the use and occupancy of the lot by others for its designed purpose. (Ord.
1840, 6-3-1996)
7-4-2: NO PARKING PLACES:
No operator of any vehicle shall stop, stand or park such vehicle in any of the
following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control
signal:
   A.   Within an intersection.
   B.   On a crosswalk.
   C.   Outside the first line of cars parked next to the curb lines.
   D.   Within twenty five feet (25') of the intersection of curb lines.
   E.   Within fifteen feet (15') of the driveway entrance to a fire station.
   F.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   G.   In front of a private driveway.
   H.   On a sidewalk or parking.
   I.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
   J.   In any area so designated as a no parking area by signs placed at the
direction of the traffic commission, and said areas shall be deemed to be a
restricted parking zone in accordance with any limitations so displayed on the
sign. (1984 Code § 23-39)
7-4-3: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking On Private Property: No person shall park a vehicle in any
private driveway or on private property or private parking areas without the
direct or implied consent of the owner or person in lawful possession of such
property. The owner or person in lawful possession of such property may post
such property making reference to this subsection. (1984 Code § 23-41)
   B.   Standing Or Parking In Bus Or Taxicab Stand: No operator of any
vehicle, other than a bus or taxicab, shall stand or park in any officially
designated bus or taxicab stand, except that the operator of any vehicle may
temporarily stop in any such stand or zone for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers. (1984 Code § 23-42)
   C.   Blocking Street Or Alley Prohibited:
      1.   No operator shall stop or park any vehicle upon a street, other than
an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less
than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that an operator may stop temporarily under such conditions
when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations, traffic signals or a police
officer.
      2.   No operator shall stop a vehicle within any alley, except for
loading or unloading and in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave
available less than nine feet (9') of the width of the roadway for the free
movement of vehicular traffic.
      3.   No freight, stock or gas and oil transport truck shall be parked or
backed to the curb in such a manner as to block or endanger the free movement
of traffic. (1984 Code § 23-43)
   D.   Backing To Curb; Special Permit Required: No operator of a vehicle used
for the transportation of merchandise or materials shall back into the curb or
take on or discharge loads unless the owner of such vehicle holds a written
permit issued by the traffic commission granting him such special privilege;
and provided, further, that such permit shall be either in the possession of
the operator or attached inside of the vehicle in a conspicuous place at the
time such vehicle is so backed against the curb. It shall be unlawful for any
owner or operator to violate any of the special provisions or conditions of any
such special permit. (1984 Code § 23-45)
   E.   Parking Vehicle For Sale: No person shall park upon any street any
vehicle displayed for sale. (1984 Code § 23-46)
   F.   Motor Vehicles Left Unattended: No person having control of or charge
of a motor vehicle shall allow such vehicle to stand on any street unattended
without first setting the brakes thereon and stopping the motor of the vehicle
and, when standing upon a perceptible grade, without turning the wheels of the
vehicle to the curb or the side of the street or highway. (1984 Code § 23-47)
   G.   Parking Longer Than Forty Eight Hours: No vehicle shall be parked on
any street or public ground, including a municipal public parking lot, for a
longer period of time than forty eight (48) hours at one location. (1984 Code §
23-49)
   H.   Parking In Municipal Parking Lots: Except on public holidays, the
operator or owner of a motor vehicle shall not park nor permit to be parked
such vehicle on a parking lot opened and maintained by the city for the public
parking of vehicles longer than the parking limit time as thereon officially
posted.
   The city council shall, by resolution, establish the parking lots to be
opened and maintained, the hours of the day for restricted parking and the
parking limit time, and it shall cause such restrictions to be conspicuously
posted thereon. (1984 Code § 23-50; amd. Ord. O2019-18, 9-3-2019)
7-4-4: TRUCK PARKING:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park any semitrailer truck or vehicle
except parallel to and within one foot (1') of the curb except when holding a
written permit issued by the city council designating the location of such
stop, and then only between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) P.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. and for such period of time as may be necessary for the
expeditious loading or unloading of merchandise or materials, and in no case
longer than one hour without permission of the chief of police or designated
representative.
   B.   No person shall stop, stand or park any truck in a truck loading zone
for a longer period of time than may be necessary for the expeditious unloading
or pick up of merchandise or materials and in no case longer than thirty (30)
minutes.
   C.   No person shall stop, stand or park any truck at any place other than
in a truck loading zone, except when holding a permit issued by the city
council or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or signals or
directions of a police officer. (1984 Code § 23-40)
   D.   No truck or semitrailer exceeding twenty eight feet (28') in length or
eight feet (8') in width shall be parked on any street except while engaged in
loading or unloading. (1984 Code § 23-48; amd. Ord. O2019-18, 9-3-2019)
7-4-5: HANDICAP PARKING SPACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park in any parking space specially
designated as a handicapped parking space, except when such vehicle displays a
special license plate issued under South Dakota Codified Laws 32-5-76 or a
certificate issued under South Dakota Codified Laws 32-30-11.1 or other visible
indication that such vehicle is under the direction or use of a handicapped
person as may be approved by the city council. Any person who is not physically
handicapped, who exercises the privileges granted the physically handicapped
under this section shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 23-39; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. O2019-18, 9-3-
2019)
CHAPTER 5
PEDESTRIANS 1
SECTION:
7-5-1: Right Of Way
7-5-2: Pedestrian Duties
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-27-1 et seq.
7-5-1: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   The operator of any vehicle shall yield the right of way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any
unmarked crosswalk at the end of a block, except at intersections where the
movement of traffic is being regulated by police officers or traffic control
signals.
   B.   Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, it shall be unlawful
for the operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear to overtake and
pass such stopped vehicle.
   C.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any other point than within a
marked crosswalk or an unmarked crosswalk at the end of a block shall yield the
right of way to vehicles upon the roadway; provided, that this provision shall
not relieve the driver of any vehicle from the duty to exercise due care for
the safety of pedestrians.
   D.   A pedestrian crossing or starting across any crosswalk on a green or
"go" signal shall have the right of way over all vehicles, including those
making turns, until such pedestrian has reached the opposite curb, and it shall
be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail to yield the right of way
to any such pedestrian. (1984 Code § 23-86)
7-5-2: PEDESTRIAN DUTIES:
   A.   At intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals
or by police officers, pedestrians shall not cross a roadway against a "do not
walk" signal and shall not cross at any place except within the marked or
unmarked crosswalk. (Ord. 2320, 11-16-2009)
   B.   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   C.   At all crosswalks, pedestrians shall move with reasonable dispatch.
   D.   No pedestrian shall go from one side of the street to the other, except
at a right angle and at a regular crosswalk at the end of a block upon any
street in the business section or on a through street. (1984 Code § 23-87)
CHAPTER 6
SNOW REMOVAL DISTRICTS 1
SECTION:
7-6-1: Snow Removal Emergency Defined
7-6-2: Snow Emergency Routes
7-6-3: Snow Removal Districts
7-6-4: Parking Restrictions
7-6-5: Prohibited Actions And Conditions
7-6-6: Emergency Street Closures
7-6-7: Violation; Vehicles Towed
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-7 of this code.
7-6-1: SNOW REMOVAL EMERGENCY DEFINED:
A snow removal emergency shall be deemed to exist when announced by the chief
of police, designated representative or street superintendent and shall begin
at the time the announcement is made or at such time as shall be so stated in
the announcement and shall remain in effect until the required snow removal
work shall be completed, in which case, the chief of police, designated
representative or street superintendent shall announce the emergency is over. A
snow removal emergency may be announced for any or all of the various snow
removal districts hereafter designated or for any portion of said districts.
(Ord. 1518, 12-16-1985)
7-6-2: SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES:
   A.   Routes Designated:
Burr Street.
East Kay Avenue.
Fairoaks Avenue from Main Street to Kimball Street.
Foster Street from Havens to Shanard Road.
Havens Street from Ohlman Street to Burr Street.
Kimball Street from 5th Avenue to 7th Avenue.
Kimball Street from 7th Avenue to 23rd Avenue.
Miller Street from Havens to Ninde.
Miller Street from Ninde Street to Norway Avenue.
Minnesota Street from Havens to 7th Street.
Minnesota Street from 7th Avenue to 23rd Avenue.
Norway Avenue from Ohlman Street to Kay Avenue.
Park Drive from 15th Avenue to 11th Avenue.
Sanborn Street from Havens Street to North Highway 37.
South Rowley Street from Havens to Spruce Street.
1st Avenue from Foster Street to Mattie Street.
1st Avenue from Minnesota Street to Foster Street.
5th Avenue from Edgerton Street to Sanborn Street.
5th Avenue from Sanborn Street to Foster Street.
8th Avenue from Ohlman Street to Minnesota Street.
11th Avenue from Park Drive to Foster Street.
15th Avenue from Commerce Street to Park Drive. (Ord. 1518, 12-16-1985; amd.
Ord. 2355, 3-21-2011, eff. 10-1-2011; Ord. 2466, 4-21-2014)
   B.   Parking Restrictions: When a snowfall of more than two inches (2")
occurs, no person shall park or leave parked along the curb parking areas on
any of the streets or portions of streets designated as snow emergency routes
any vehicle until such time as the street has been cleared of snow back to the
curb line and snowfall accumulation has ceased. (Ord. 1518, 12-16-1985)
7-6-3: SNOW REMOVAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   District A:
      1.   District Designated: The following portions of streets and public
areas are hereby declared to constitute Snow Removal District A:
All downtown City owned public parking lots.
Kimball Street from south side of Railroad Street to south side of Fifth
Avenue.
Lawler Street from south side of Railroad Street to south side of Seventh
Avenue.
Main Street from the railroad depot to north side of Highway 37 Bypass.
Railroad Street from east side of Kimball Street to west side of Rowley Street.
Rowley Street from south side of Railroad Street to south side of Seventh
Avenue.
First Avenue from east side of Kimball Street to the east side of Sanborn
Boulevard.
Second Avenue from west side of Kimball Street to west side of Rowley Street.
Third Avenue from east side of Kimball Street to west side of Rowley Street.
Fourth Avenue from east side of Kimball Street to west side of Rowley Street.
Fifth Avenue from west side of Kimball Street to east side of Duff Street.
Sixth Avenue from east side of Lawler Street to west side of Rowley Street.
Seventh Avenue from west side of Lawler Street to east side of Rowley Street.
(Ord. O2018-16, 12-17-2018)
      2.   Parking Restrictions: During such time as a snow removal emergency
is in effect for Snow Removal District A or any portion thereof, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park or leave parked any vehicle upon any of the
streets affected by such snow removal emergency or within any parking lot
affected by such snow removal emergency.
   B.   District B:
      1.   District Designated: All streets and highways not within Snow
Removal District A are hereby declared to constitute Snow Removal District B.
      2.   Parking Restrictions: When a snowfall of more than two inches (2")
occurs or during such time that a snow removal emergency is in effect for Snow
Removal District B or any part thereof, no vehicle shall be parked on any east-
west street until such time as the snowfall accumulation has stopped and such
east-west street is plowed to the curb, and upon the clearing of each east-
west street, all vehicles shall be moved off the north-south streets and parked
on the cleared streets. (Ord. 1518, 12-16-1985)
7-6-4: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding subsection
7-4-3G of this title, no vehicle shall remain parked in any one location on any
street or Municipally owned parking lot within the City for a longer period of
time than twelve (12) hours whenever snowfall accumulation of more than two
inches (2") occurs or during such time as a snow removal emergency is in
effect. A vehicle shall be deemed to be parked in one location for longer than
twelve (12) hours under this section unless such vehicle is removed within
twelve (12) hours from the street or is moved within twelve (12) hours to a
street which has been cleared of snow back to the curb, in accordance with the
parking restrictions provided in subsection
7-6-3B2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1518, 12-16-1985)
7-6-5: PROHIBITED ACTIONS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Interference With Snow Removal Operations: It shall be unlawful for any
person to interfere with or obstruct or cause interference with or obstruction
of the snow removal operations undertaken by the City and its employees.
   B.   Placing Snow From Private Property Onto Public Ways: No person shall
remove snow from private property and place the same upon the streets, public
ways or sidewalks; except, that it shall be lawful for persons to remove the
snow which shall naturally fall upon the sidewalks and place the same upon the
streets and ways of the City. (Ord. 1518, 12-16-1985)
7-6-6: EMERGENCY STREET CLOSURES:
The Mayor shall have the power, during a snow removal emergency and during
periods of extreme snow accumulations, to close any street or portion of street
which is under the jurisdiction of the City to all traffic and parking, if
necessary, for the efficient removal of snow by the Street Department. Notice
of any such emergency regulations shall be given by broadcasting the same over
the local radio stations and, if possible, by publication in the official
newspaper. (Ord. 1518, 12-16-1985)
7-6-7: VIOLATION; VEHICLES TOWED:
Any vehicle parked in violation of any provision or restriction contained in
this chapter relating to snow removal operations may be towed in accordance
with subsection
7-1-4F of this title. (Ord. 1518, 12-16-1985)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
7-7-1: Lights
7-7-2: Horns And Warning Devices
7-7-3: Windows, Windshields And Glass
7-7-4: Wheels And Tires
7-7-5: Exhaust System And Muffler
7-7-6: Size, Weight And Loads
7-7-7: Exempt Vehicles
7-7-8: Enforcement
7-7-1: LIGHTS 1 :
   A.   Headlamps:
      1.   Required: Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle or other
vehicle which is exempt by state law shall be equipped with at least two (2)
headlamps with at least one on each side of the front of the motor vehicle.
Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more than two (2)
headlamps which shall comply with the requirements and limitations set forth in
South Dakota Codified Laws 32-17-2, 32-17-5 and 32-17-6. (1984 Code § 23-56)
      2.   Headlamp Specifications: The headlamps of motor vehicles shall be so
constructed, arranged and adjusted that, except when dimmed, they will, at all
times and under normal atmospheric conditions and on level road, produce a
driving light sufficient to render clearly discernible a person two hundred
feet (200') ahead but shall not project a glaring or dazzling light to persons
in front of such headlamps. (1984 Code § 23-57)
      3.   Periods During Which Headlamps Must Be Used: Every vehicle upon a
roadway within the city during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset
to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible any person on a roadway at a
distance of two hundred feet (200') ahead shall be operated only with proper
headlamps and taillights illuminated. (1984 Code § 23-54)
   B.   Turn Light: Whenever a motor vehicle is equipped with a signal light,
the signal light shall be so constructed and located on the vehicle as to give
a signal, yellow or red in color, which shall be plainly visible in normal
sunlight for a distance of one hundred feet (100') to the rear of the vehicle
but shall not project a glaring or dazzling light and shall be of a type
approved by the department of public safety of the state. (1984 Code § 23-58)
   C.   Stop Lamps: Except for vehicles specifically exempted by the state
laws, every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole trailer shall be
equipped with two (2) or more stop lamps, except that motor vehicles, trailers,
semitrailers and pole trailers manufactured and assembled prior to July 1,
1983, and motorcycles and motor driven cycles shall be equipped with at least
one stop lamp. The stop lamp shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle at a
height of no more than seventy inches (70") nor less than fifteen inches (15").
The stop lamp shall display a red light visible from a distance of not less
than three hundred feet (300') to the rear in normal sunlight, except for a
moped, which distance shall not be less than one hundred fifty feet (150'). The
stop lamp shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake which
may be incorporated with one or more rear lamps. (1984 Code § 23-59)
   D.   Rear Lamps:
      1.   Vehicles And Trailers Generally: Every motor vehicle, trailer,
semitrailer and pole trailer, except as otherwise provided, and any vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of the combination of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least two (2) taillamps mounted on the rear which, when
lighted, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of one thousand
feet (1,000') to the rear. However, motor vehicles, trailers, semitrailers and
pole trailers manufactured and assembled prior to June 1, 1973, shall have one
taillamp mounted on the left side of the rear which, when lighted, shall emit a
red light plainly visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the
rear.
      2.   Motorcycles: Motorcycles and motor driven cycles, except mopeds,
shall have at least one taillamp which, when lighted, shall emit a red light
plainly visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear.
      3.   Mopeds: Mopeds shall have at least one taillamp which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of two hundred fifty
feet (250') to the rear.
      4.   Farm Vehicles: Farm vehicles which are being drawn at the end of a
train of vehicles may be equipped with two (2) 4-inch reflectors in lieu of
lighted lamps as provided in this subsection so as to exhibit a red light
plainly visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear.
      5.   Combination Of Vehicles: On a combination of vehicles, only the
taillamps on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance
specified.
      6.   Vehicles With More Than One Taillamp: On vehicles with more than one
taillamp, the lamps shall be mounted on the same level and as widely spaced
laterally as practicable. Every taillamp upon every vehicle shall be located at
a height of not more than seventy two inches (72") nor less than fifteen inches
(15"). (1984 Code § 23-60)
   E.   Auxiliary Driving Lamps: Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to
exceed three (3) auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not
less than twelve inches (12") nor more than twenty four inches (24") above the
level surface upon which the vehicle stands and every such auxiliary driving
lamp shall meet the requirements and limitations contained in South Dakota
Codified Laws chapter 32-17. (1984 Code § 23-61)
   F.   Operation Of Vehicle With Parking Lights Only Prohibited: No vehicle
shall operate upon a roadway in the city with the front parking lights
illuminated without the front headlamps illuminated. (1984 Code § 23-55)
   G.   Certain Lights Prohibited: Except as in this subsection provided, no
person operating, owning or in possession of any motor vehicle operated on the
streets of the city shall equip such motor vehicle or place on the front part
thereof any red lights or blinkers commonly used by emergency vehicles,
including police and fire department vehicles and ambulances used for emergency
calls, to which emergency vehicles in this subsection shall not apply. (1984
Code § 23-71)
   H.   Lights To Be Dimmed: No person shall use headlights or sidelights upon
any vehicle on any street unless the same are dimmed in such a way as to
prevent the light being dazzling or blinding to persons using the streets.
(1984 Code § 23-52)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-17-1 et seq.
7-7-2: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES 1 :
   A.   Horn Required: Every motor vehicle, when operated on a roadway within
the city, shall be equipped with a horn in good working order capable of
emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of at least two
hundred feet (200'). (1984 Code § 23-64)
   B.   Warning Devices On Emergency Vehicles: All emergency vehicles,
including police and fire department vehicles, and every ambulance used for
emergency calls, shall be equipped with a bell, siren or exhaust whistle. (1984
Code § 23-72)
   C.   Certain Warning Devices Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided in
this chapter, no motor vehicle shall be equipped with and no person shall use
on any such vehicle any siren, compression or spark plug whistle, exhaust horn
or whistle which does not produce a harmonious sound or which closely resembles
those used on emergency vehicles.
No person shall use any horn or other warning device otherwise than as a
reasonable warning to traffic or make any unnecessary or unreasonably loud or
harsh sound by means of any such horn or warning device. (1984 Code § 23-73)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-15-10.
7-7-3: WINDOWS, WINDSHIELDS AND GLASS 1 :
   A.   Laminated Window Glass Required For Windshield: Every motor vehicle
shall be equipped with an approved laminated safety glass windshield. The
windshield shall be in a position that affords continuous horizontal frontal
protection to the driver and front seat occupants. The minimum vertical height
of an unobstructed windshield shall be six inches (6"). (1984 Code § 23-68)
   B.   Cracked Or Broken Glass Prohibited: No glass or glazing material, at
any location where it is used, may be cracked or broken so as to cut or injure
any person in or around any vehicle. (1984 Code § 23-69)
   C.   Glass Impairing Operators Vision Prohibited: No glass or glazing
material may be cracked, broken, shattered or distorted to the extent that it
significantly impairs the vision of the motor vehicle operator. (1984 Code §
23-70)
   D.   Nontransparent Material On Windows Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person to drive any vehicle upon any street within the city with any sign,
poster or other nontransparent material including, but not limited to, frost
accumulation or dirt accumulation, wherein the visibility of the driver of the
vehicle is obstructed, upon the front windshield, side wings, side or rear
windows of such motor vehicle other than a certificate or other paper required
to be displayed by law or temporary driving instructions placed thereon by the
manufacturer unless the same shall not obstruct the driver's clear view of the
roadway or any intersecting roadway. (1984 Code § 23-53)
   E.   Windshield Wipers 2 : The windshield on every motor vehicle, except
farm tractors and motorcycles, shall be equipped with a device for cleaning
rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield, which device shall be
operated by the driver of the vehicle. No person shall operate a motor vehicle
upon the roadways within the city unless such vehicle shall be equipped with
such device in good working order capable of cleaning the windshield thereof
and which device shall provide the driver a clear view of the roadway. (1984
Code § 23-66)
   F.   Rear Vision Mirrors 3 : Every motor vehicle operated within the city
shall be equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view
of the highway for a distance of at least two hundred feet (200') to the rear
of such vehicle whether operated singly or towing another vehicle. (1984 Code §
23-67)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-15-2.
2 2. SDCL § 32-15-7.
3 3. SDCL § 32-15-8.
7-7-4: WHEELS AND TIRES 1 :
   A.   Cut Or Worn Tires; Minimum Tread: No person may operate on the public
roadways of the city a licensed motor vehicle which has a mounted tire having a
cut into the fabric or worn so that the fabric is visible, having knots or
bulges in the sidewall or tread depth less than two thirty-seconds (2/32) of an
inch on any two (2) adjacent tread groves. (1984 Code § 23-63)
   B.   Operation With Unsafe Tires Or Wheels A Misdemeanor: No person operate
on the roadway in the city a licensed motor vehicle which has a tire rim or
wheel assembly which is bent, cracked or misaligned to a degree so as not to
affect the safe operation of the vehicle. The bolts, nuts or lugs of the wheel
assembly shall not be bent, loose or missing. (1984 Code § 23-62)
 
Notes
1 4. SDCL § 32-19-1 et seq.
7-7-5: EXHAUST SYSTEM AND MUFFLER 1 :
   A.   Exhaust System And Muffler Required: No person shall drive a motor
vehicle in the city unless such motor vehicle is equipped with an exhaust
system and muffler, both in good working condition and in constant operation to
prevent excessive or unusual noise.
   B.   Muffler Cutout Prohibited: No person shall use a "muffler cutout" on
any motor vehicle. (1984 Code § 23-65)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-15-17. See also subsection 5-5-4B17 and section 5-5-6 of this
  code.
7-7-6: SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOADS:
   A.   Compliance With State Law: No person shall drive or operate any vehicle
upon any street, the gross weight of which, including the load, or the size of
which does not comply with the requirements of the state law governing such
vehicle 1 . (1984 Code § 23-76)
   B.   Projecting Loads: No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street
with any load or part of a load projecting more than four feet (4') beyond the
rear end or front end or more than two feet (2') beyond the sides of the body
or carrying part of such vehicle unless there is attached to the extreme ends
and sides of such projecting loads some warning sign or signal plainly
discernible to other drivers and clearly indicating the projecting parts of
such load. (1984 Code § 23-77)
   C.   Weight And Size Limits:
      1.   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle exceeding the
following weight and size restrictions on any street or avenue in the city
which is not designated as a truck route unless written permission is first
granted by the chief of police or designated representative and the director of
public works. Any vehicle exceeding the hereinafter set forth restrictions must
comply with the provisions of this subsection.
      2.   The gross weight of any vehicle shall not exceed twelve thousand
(12,000) pounds, the length of the vehicle shall not exceed twenty four feet
(24'), nor shall the width exceed eight feet (8'). (Ord. 1481, 9-17-1984)
      3.   Any police officer shall have the power and authority to direct any
vehicle be taken to the nearest truck scale and weighted and measured to
determine the conformance with this chapter. The failure to comply with such
directions shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (1984 Code § 23-80)
   D.   Truck Routes:
      1.   Use Of Routes: When any truck route has been established and
identified, any person driving any vehicle in excess of the limitations
established in subsection C2 of this section shall drive such vehicle on such
route as designated herein and none other, except when necessary to traverse
other streets to a destination for the purpose of loading or unloading
commodities or for the purpose of towing a disabled or damaged motor vehicle to
or from the nearest truck route as is reasonable and necessary. No deviation
shall be permitted without written permission as above specified. All trucks
operating within the city shall comply with weight and size limitations
established by the state 2 .
      2.   Routes Designated: The following streets are hereby designated as
truck routes:
         Burr Street from south city limits to Havens Street
         Havens Street from east city limits to west city limits
         Ohlman Street
         Sanborn Boulevard from north city limits to Havens Street
         South Rowley from Havens Street to south city limits
         First Street from Sanborn Boulevard to east city limits
   (1984 Code § 23-79)
      3.   Marking Of Routes: In addition to the general identification by
signs or markings of truck routes which shall be posted by the police
department, the police department shall post, at the city limits upon all main
traffic routes entering the city, signs notifying users of highways entering
the city that trucks are permitted only to be driven upon marked truck routes.
At the direction of the city council, the police department shall post any
street so selected by said committee with a sign signifying that said street is
not designated as a truck route or that no through trucks are allowed. (1984
Code § 23-80; amd. Ord. O2019-18, 9-3-2019)
 
Notes
1 2. SDCL § 32-22-1 et seq.
2 1. SDCL § 32-22-1 et seq.
7-7-7: EXEMPT VEHICLES:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to emergency vehicles of the
police department or fire department or to any public utility vehicles who are
actually engaged in the performance of emergency duties necessary to be
performed by said public departments or public utilities nor to any vehicles
owned by or performing work for the United States, the state or the city. (1984
Code § 23-81)
7-7-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Warning Ticket: Police officers are hereby authorized to issue a
warning ticket to any driver whose motor vehicle is in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter. Such warning ticket shall clearly designate the
provision of the issuing officer when such violation is corrected, such
correction to be made not less than ten (10) days after the date of issue of
the warning ticket, at the discretion of the issuing officer. The form and
content of the warning ticket shall be in accordance and compliance with the
form authorized by the superintendent of the highway patrol of the state. The
authority shall not be construed as a limitation of the power to arrest. (1984
Code § 23-74)
   B.   Compliance With Directions Of Peace Officer: The driver of a motor
vehicle shall comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of the peace
officer, submit to any lawful inspection under this chapter, and comply with
the provisions or requirements of a warning ticket issued by a police officer.
(1984 Code § 23-75)
CHAPTER 8
BICYCLES AND SKATES
SECTION:
7-8-1: Definitions
7-8-2: Registration Authorized
7-8-3: Operation Of Bicycles
7-8-4: Bicycle Equipment
7-8-5: Skates And Skateboards On Roadways Restricted
7-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BICYCLE: Every vehicle propelled solely by human power upon which any person
may ride, having two (2) tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
The term bicycle includes an electric bicycle.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
ELECTRIC BICYCLE: A bicycle or tricycle that is:
   A.   Equipped with a seat or saddle for the cyclist;
   B.   Equipped with operable pedals for propulsion by the cyclist;
   C.   Equipped with an electric motor of seven hundred fifty watts (750 W) or
less; and
   D.   Is designated as a Class I, II, or III electric bicycle by State law.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices used exclusively upon
stationary rail or tracks. A bicycle is a vehicle. (1984 Code § 23-98; amd.
Ord. O2019-03, 4-15-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
7-8-2: REGISTRATION AUTHORIZED:
Every owner of a bicycle may list and register with the Chief of Police or
designated representative his name and address, the name of the manufacturer of
his bicycle, its number, style and general description. (Ord. O2019-03, 4-15-
2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
7-8-3: OPERATION OF BICYCLES 1 :
   A.   Application Of Traffic Laws: Every person propelling a vehicle by human
power or riding a bicycle shall have all of the rights and all of the duties
applicable to the driver of any other vehicle under this Code, except as to
special regulations in this chapter and except as to those provisions which by
their nature can have no application. (1984 Code § 23-102)
   B.   Riding On Roadways, Sidewalks, Trails, And Paths:
      1.   No person may ride or propel any bicycle upon any public street,
highway, sidewalk, trail or path in such a manner as to interfere with any
pedestrian thereon.
      2.   No person may ride or propel a bicycle upon any public street,
highway, sidewalk, trail or path except in a careful and prudent manner and
unless such person is capable of efficient control and operation of such
bicycle.
      3.   No person may operate a bicycle upon the streets, highways,
sidewalks, trails and paths of the City carelessly, without due caution, or at
a speed or in a manner so as to endanger any person or property.
      4.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway must ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
      5.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway may not ride more than two
(2) abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles. Persons riding two (2) abreast must not impede the normal and
reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, must ride within a
single lane. (Ord. O2019-03, 4-15-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
   C.   Riding Of Bicycles, Skateboards Or Inline Skates On Sidewalks: No
person shall ride or propel any bicycle, skateboard or inline skates
(rollerblades) upon the sidewalks of Main Street in the City between the area
of Seventh Street and First Street. Such area shall include the entire premises
of the Veterans Park located at the intersection of First Street and Main
Street. Crossing Main Street upon the sidewalks at any intersection of Main
Street shall not be a violation of this subsection. (Ord. O2018-02, 2-20-2018)
   D.   Interfering With Pedestrians: No person shall ride or propel any
bicycle, skateboard or inline skates (rollerblades) upon any street or sidewalk
in the City in such a manner as to interfere with any pedestrian thereon. (Ord.
1883, 7-21-1997)
   E.   Carrying Passengers On Bicycles: No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed or equipped,
except that an adult rider may carry a child securely attached to his person in
a backpack or sling. (1984 Code § 23-103)
   F.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any
vehicle upon a roadway. This subsection shall not prohibit attaching a bicycle
trailer or bicycle semitrailer to a bicycle if that trailer or semitrailer has
been designed for such attachment. (1984 Code § 23-104)
   G.   Carrying Articles On Bicycle: No person operating a bicycle shall carry
any package, bundle or article which prevents the use of both hands in the
control and operation of the bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep
at least one hand on the handlebars at all times. (1984 Code § 23-106)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-20B-5 et seq.
7-8-4: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT 1 :
   A.   Brakes: Every bicycle operated in the streets of the City shall be
equipped with a brake adequate to control the movement and to stop such bicycle
within twenty five feet (25') from a speed of ten (10) miles per hour on dry,
level, clean pavement.
   B.   Lights And Reflectors: No bicycle shall be permitted on any street,
highway or boulevard of the City between thirty (30) minutes after sunset and
thirty (30) minutes before sunrise without a headlight visible from the front
thereof for not less than two hundred feet (200') indicating the approach or
presence of the bicycle, which light shall be firmly attached to the bicycle
and properly lighted nor without a red taillight or, in lieu thereof, a
reflector attached to and visible from the rear of such bicycle, visible for a
distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'). (1984 Code § 23-101)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-17-25.
7-8-5: SKATES AND SKATEBOARDS ON ROADWAYS RESTRICTED:
   A.   No person shall ride or propel any skateboard or skates on a roadway in
the City in such a manner as to interfere with any pedestrian or vehicle
traffic thereon.
   B.   No person shall ride or propel any skateboard or skates on a roadway
between thirty (30) minutes after sunset and thirty (30) minutes before sunrise
without wearing sufficient reflective gear so as to be plainly visible from a
distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'). (Ord. 2539, 5-16-2016)
CHAPTER 9
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
7-9-1: Definitions
7-9-2: Registration Required
7-9-3: Operation Of Snowmobiles
7-9-4: Snowmobile Equipment
7-9-5: Violation And Penalty
7-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires the following
words and phrases have the meanings ascribed to them herein:
OPERATOR: A person who operates or is in actual control of a snowmobile.
OWNER: Any person, other than a lien holder, having the property in or title to
a snowmobile and entitled to the use or possession thereof.
SNOWMOBILE: Any engine driven vehicle of a type which utilizes sled type
runners, wheels or skis with an endless belt tread or similar means of contact
with the surface upon which it is operated.
STREET: Every highway and street within the corporate limits of the city of
Mitchell. (1984 Code § 33A-1)
7-9-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a snowmobile within the corporate limits of the city
without having such snowmobile registered and licensed as provided by state law
1 . (1984 Code § 33A-2)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 32-20A-1 et seq.
7-9-3: OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   Driver's License Required; Exception: No person shall operate a
snowmobile on any city street, alley, avenue or ditch, as an emergency vehicle
or otherwise, unless the operator shall have a valid driver's license on his
person.
   B.   Application Of Traffic Laws; Violations: Any person operating a
snowmobile within the corporate limits of the city shall be subject to all the
traffic laws of the city as set forth in this title. (1984 Code § 33A-2)
Every person operating a snowmobile shall strictly observe all traffic signs
and signals and all other traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto and
shall obey the orders and directions of any police officer of the city
authorized to direct or regulate traffic. Any violator shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished accordingly. (1984
Code § 33A-9)
   C.   Unattended Vehicles: It is unlawful for the owner or operator of a
snowmobile to leave or allow the snowmobile to be or remain unattended on
public property while the motor is running. (1984 Code § 33A-5)
   D.   Restricted And Prohibited Acts And Conditions:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
corporate limits of the city during the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M to six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any day.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a snowmobile in the
corporate limits of the city to tow any person or thing in or on the public
streets or roads or other city property, except through the use of a rigid tow
bar attached to the rear of a snowmobile. (1984 Code § 33A-6)
      3.   No person shall operate a snowmobile:
         a.   On the portion of any right of way on the city street or avenue
used for motor vehicle travel, except the most right hand lane which is used
for vehicular traffic in the same direction other than on expressways or state
highways. Snowmobiles may operate in the road ditch where expressways or state
highways are so configured within the corporate limits.
         b.   On private property of another without the express permission to
do so by the owner or occupant of said property.
         c.   On any public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel or on
boulevards within any public right of way or on any alleys, except that travel
is permitted on alleys when traveling from a place of storage to the nearest
street.
         d.   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, slide
areas, recreational areas and golf courses and on municipal airport property
without the express permission to do so by the proper authority. (1984 Code §
33A-2)
         e.   On Main Street, Lawler Street or Rowley Street from First Avenue
South to Twelfth Avenue North, except under the road and weather conditions as
declared by the chief of police, his designated representative, or Davison
County emergency management director to constitute emergency travel conditions
authorizing use of a snowmobile or when such vehicle is necessary as an
emergency vehicle to protect the health, safety and welfare of any individual.
(1984 Code § 33A-2; amd. 2005 Code)
         f.   In any manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise
so as to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons. (1984
Code § 33A-2)
   E.   Authority To Prohibit Operation In Specific Places: The city council
may, by resolution, prohibit the operation of snowmobiles within the right of
way of the public roads or streets or other city property within the city when,
in its opinion, the public safety and welfare so require. (1984 Code § 33A-8)
   F.   Interpretation Of Provisions; Exemptions:
      1.   None of the provisions of this chapter are to be construed to mean
that snowmobiles are permitted to operate on any public street or road or other
city property within the city for the purpose of recreation, but rather, the
aforementioned provisions are intended to provide an exit out of the city and a
return to the residence of the operator or his place of storage for a
snowmobile by way of the most direct and closest route available. (1984 Code §
33A-6)
      2.   Notwithstanding the prohibitions of this chapter, the director of
public works shall have authority to supervise and regulate events or programs
in connection with the events conducted by the parks and recreation department
in which snowmobiles are used. The director of public works shall have the
authority to designate city park areas that he shall deem available for use of
snowmobiles. If and when such park areas are designated, twelve (12) year old
children or older can operate a snowmobile in the designated area; provided,
that said individual is supervised by a person who has a valid driver's license
on his person. (1984 Code § 33A-3)
7-9-4: SNOWMOBILE EQUIPMENT:
All snowmobiles operated within the city shall have the following equipment:
   A.   Mufflers: Mufflers which are properly attached and reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating the
vehicle, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device on
said vehicle.
   B.   Brakes: Adequate brakes in good working condition.
   C.   Throttle: A spring loaded or factory equipped throttle in operating
condition. A "spring loaded or factory equipped throttle" is defined as a
device which, when pressure is removed from the accelerator, the throttle
causes the motor to return to idle speed.
   D.   Lights: Any snowmobile being operated within the corporate limits of
the city shall display a lighted headlamp and taillamp in accordance with South
Dakota Codified Laws chapter 32-17, as may have been approved by the
commissioner of motor vehicles at least equivalent to that required for
motorcycles.
   E.   Flag: A pennant flag of red or blaze material of a size not less than
twelve inches by twelve inches by nine inches (12" x 12" x 9"), properly
attached at a height of not less than fifty four inches (54") from the ground
level at any time when the vehicle is operated within the city limits. (1984
Code § 33A-4)
7-9-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1984 Code § 33A-7; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 9A
GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
7-9A-1: Golf Cart Defined
7-9A-2: Permit Required
7-9A-3: Operation Requirements
7-9A-4: Violation
7-9A-5: Revocation Of Permit
7-9A-1: GOLF CART DEFINED:
A golf cart is a self-propelled machine, powered either by battery or internal
combustion engine, originally designed for transporting one or two (2) persons
and their equipment around a golf course for purposes of the game of golf. A
golf cart may be three (3) or four (4) wheeled. (Ord. 2473, 5-5-2014)
7-9A-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a golf cart upon any public street within the city of
Mitchell, South Dakota, without having first obtained a permit therefor from
the city finance office. The fee to be charged for such permit shall be as from
time to time established by resolution of the city council. Permitted operation
upon a public way within the city shall be in compliance with all provisions of
this chapter. Permits issued pursuant to this chapter may be transferred with
the transfer of ownership of the permitted golf cart and shall expire on
December 31 of each year. (Ord. 2473, 5-5-2014)
7-9A-3: OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
Operation of a permitted golf cart upon the public streets of the city shall be
in conformance with all of the following requirements:
   A.   The person operating the golf cart:
      1.   Must be in possession of a valid driver's license;
      2.   Must have in effect insurance covering operation of the golf cart in
not less than the minimum required by the state of South Dakota for operation
of licensed vehicles on public ways;
      3.   Shall be operated at times between sunrise and sunset only;
      4.   The permit shall be visibly displayed at the rear left side of the
golf cart;
      5.   Shall not operate the golf cart upon any state or federally
designated highway excepting only to cross such highways;
      6.   Shall not drive on sidewalk;
      7.   All persons within the permitted golf cart shall be seated at all
times and no person shall at any time be on the outside or on the top of the
permitted golf cart at any time during operation on a public street;
      8.   Shall be equipped with a slow moving vehicle sign positioned and
plainly visible on the rear of the golf cart which conforms to the provisions
of South Dakota Codified Law chapter 32-20;
      9.   The permitted golf cart shall not be used in chasing after persons
or animals;
      10.   Shall comply with all laws and regulations applicable to operation
of vehicles on public streets. (Ord. 2473, 5-5-2014)
7-9A-4: VIOLATION:
Any person who operates a golf cart upon a public street in violation of this
chapter shall be subject to citation and punishment upon conviction as provided
in the general penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2473, 5-5-2014)
7-9A-5: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to revocation by
the chief of police of the city in the event the permitted golf cart is
operated by any person in violation of the provisions of this chapter. Notice
of revocation shall be given to the owner of the golf cart in person or by
mail. (Ord. 2473, 5-5-2014; amd. Ord. O2020-14, 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 10
GENERAL VEHICLE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-10-1: Definitions
7-10-2: Abandoning, Storing, Or Keeping Vehicles On Public Grounds
7-10-3: Abandoning, Storing, Or Keeping Vehicles On Private Property
7-10-4: Violations And Remedies
7-10-5: Reclaiming Vehicles
7-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
PRIVATE PROPERTY: All strips of land not held open for public use.
PUBLIC GROUNDS: All strips of land controlled or owned by the city of Mitchell
which are held open for public use including, but not limited to, roadways,
boulevards, parkings, rights of way, parkways and parks. (Ord. 2544, 5-16-2016)
7-10-2: ABANDONING, STORING, OR KEEPING VEHICLES ON PUBLIC GROUNDS:
   A.   No person shall leave any vehicle on any public ground in a manner
where it reasonably appears from the circumstances that the vehicle is
abandoned. At least two (2) of the following factors must be present for a
vehicle to be abandoned:
      1.   Deteriorated condition of the vehicle;
      2.   Located in an area that tends to impede vehicle or foot traffic,
including boulevards or parkings without sidewalk;
      3.   Vehicle remained at the location longer than forty eight (48) hours;
or
      4.   Missing or expired license plates; or
      5.   Any other condition which reasonably would cause a vehicle to appear
abandoned.
   B.   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked,
junked, or unlicensed vehicle on any roadway within the city. (Ord. 2544, 5-16-
2016)
7-10-3: ABANDONING, STORING, OR KEEPING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall leave any vehicle on any private property in a manner
where it reasonably appears from the circumstances that the vehicle is
abandoned. At least two (2) of the following factors must be present for a
vehicle to be abandoned:
      1.   Deteriorated condition of the vehicle;
      2.   Located in a manner that may threaten public safety;
      3.   Vehicle remained at the location longer than ten (10) days; or
      4.   Missing or expired license plates; or
      5.   Any other condition which reasonably would cause a vehicle to appear
abandoned.
   B.   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether
as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise shall:
      1.   Allow any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked,
discarded, or unlicensed vehicle to remain on such property longer than ten
(10) days; or
      2.   Allow the open storage of more than six (6) automobiles, trucks, or
other vehicles on any lot or combination of adjoining lots which constitute a
single premises for more than ten (10) days, unless such premises is zoned for
such use; or
      3.   Allow the open storage of machine(s), implement(s) or other
commercial, agricultural, or industrial equipment, other than equipment for
snow removal or property maintenance suitable for the personal use of the
property owner or occupant upon the property, for more than ten (10) days,
unless the property is zoned for such use.
      4.   Allow any vehicle, machine, implement, or other equipment to be
stored on private property of another without that private property owner's
permission.
   C.   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply with regard to a
vehicle:
      1.   In an enclosed building; or
      2.   On the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place
and manner when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise; or
      3.   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the city or authorized by the city. (Ord. 2544, 5-16-2016)
7-10-4: VIOLATIONS AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of
this chapter shall be fined, in an amount set by the city council by
resolution, for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Towing And Storage For Violations On Public Grounds: Any vehicle parked
in violation of section
7-10-2 or subsection
7-10-3B4 of this chapter may be removed from the location of the violation by
law enforcement, or their authorized representative, and placed in storage, and
the owner of such vehicle, in addition to the fine for violation, shall pay the
charges for towing and storage of such vehicle.
   C.   Towing And Storage For Violations On Private Property: Any vehicle
parked in violation of section
7-10-3 of this chapter, except subsection
7-10-3B4 of this chapter, is deemed a public nuisance and may be removed from
the location of the violation by the code enforcement officer, or their
authorized representative, and placed in storage, and the owner of such
vehicle, in addition to the fine for violation, shall pay the charges for
towing and storage of such vehicle. However, such authority shall only be
exercised after providing written notice to the registered owner of the vehicle
and allowing ten (10) days from the date of mailing such notice for the
violation to be cured.
   D.   Injunction: In addition to any other remedy, the city attorney may
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of this chapter. Continued violations of this
chapter are deemed to be a public nuisance. Such application for relief may
include seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction, and
permanent injunction. (Ord. 2544, 5-16-2016)
7-10-5: RECLAIMING VEHICLES:
Vehicles towed and stored under this chapter may be reclaimed pursuant to state
law. (Ord. 2544, 5-16-2016)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Grades, Widths And Minimum Standards Of Streets
8-1-2: Assessments For Improvements
8-1-3: Use Of Public Ways
8-1-4: Damage To Public Ways
8-1-5: Obstructions
8-1-6: Prohibited And Restricted Acts And Conditions
8-1-7: Sidewalk Snow And Ice Removal
8-1-7-1: Duty To Remove In General
8-1-7-2: Special Removal Areas Designated
8-1-7-3: Removal By City Upon Violation
8-1-7-4: Costs For Removal
8-1-8: Sidewalk Maintenance
8-1-9: Violations And Penalties
8-1-1: GRADES, WIDTHS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF STREETS:
   A.   Grades: All previous ordinances of the City establishing grades of
streets, avenues and alleys in various parts of the City are retained and
continued, subject only to such extensions, supplements and interpretations as
appear from the records of the Director of Public Works, which records and maps
are incorporated herein by reference and adopted as a part of the official
record of the grades of streets, avenues and alleys of the City.
   B.   Widths:
      1.   Reconstruction: At such time as any street within the jurisdictional
limits of the City is reconstructed, it shall be reconstructed with a minimum
width of thirty six feet (36') or the width previously existing, whichever is
greater; except, that local residential side streets may be reconstructed to
the minimum width of their previously existing dimensions.
      2.   New Construction: Streets newly constructed shall be built at a
minimum width of forty feet (40').
A "local residential side street" is defined as a street to which the majority
of the platted lots fronting thereon abut as side yards and not as front yards
and which street is not classified as a collector street, principal arterial
street or minor arterial street, as referenced in the street master plan
adopted by the City.
   C.   Minimum Standard Cross Section Of Streets:
      1.   Residential Street Section: The minimum cross sectional area of a
residential street in Mitchell shall be not less than eight inches (8") of base
course plus three inches (3") of asphalt concrete.
      2.   Commercial Street Section: The minimum cross sectional area of a
commercial street in Mitchell shall be not less than twelve inches (12") of
base course plus four inches (4") of asphalt.
The above minimum standards may be increased by the Director of Public Works
for a particular street if determined to be necessary by testing or design
experience. Fabric separation of subbase material and base course may also be
ordered by the Director of Public Works based upon conditions in the field or
by testing or design experience. (Ord. 2421, 1-7-2013)
8-1-2: ASSESSMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Street And Alley Improvements: Whenever the City Council shall cause to
be opened, widened, extended, graded, graveled, surfaced with oil or other
bituminous material, paved, repaved, street lighting equipment to be erected
in, curbed, guttered, drained or otherwise improved, any street, alley or
public way, it may provide for the cost thereof to be paid by special
assessment against the abutting property, according to law 1 . All such special
assessments shall be imposed in strict conformance with the applicable laws of
the State. (1984 Code § 34-52)
   B.   Sidewalk Improvement: Whenever the City Council shall cause to be
constructed, reconstructed or repaired any sidewalk, it may provide for the
cost thereof to be paid by special assessment against the abutting property,
according to law. All such special assessments shall be imposed in strict
conformance with the applicable laws of the State. (1984 Code § 34-53)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 9-45-39.
8-1-3: USE OF PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Building Materials: No person shall place or keep any building
equipment or material on any street, alley or public ground without securing a
permit therefor and complying with the provisions of this subsection.
      1.   The director of public works, with approval of the chief of police
or designated representative, may grant a written permit, for a time therein
limited and not exceeding three (3) months, to any person to keep building
equipment and materials on any street, alley or public place adjacent to any
lot whereon such building material is about to be used. For good cause, such
permit may be extended.
      2.   Such permit shall not authorize the obstruction of more than two-
thirds (2/3) of the widths of the sidewalk or more than one- third (1/3) of the
roadway adjacent to such lot nor shall such materials be so kept as to obstruct
the free flow of water in gutters of such street. (1984 Code § 34-4)
      3.   The person to whom a permit is issued shall keep posted at such
place adequate warning lights, designed to the standards of the "Manual On
Uniform Traffic Control Devices" for the protection of the traveling public,
and shall, before the expiration of the time limit in such permit or extension
thereof, remove all such material and rubbish from such sidewalk, street, alley
or public place. (1984 Code § 34-4; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Merchandise On Sidewalk: No person shall place any goods or merchandise
for sale or exhibition upon any sidewalk; except, that for the purpose of
loading or unloading, such articles may be placed upon the outer side of
sidewalk for such time as may be necessary to load or unload the same, but in
no instance shall any such articles be left upon the sidewalk in the nighttime
or in such way as to obstruct the sidewalk. The city council may authorize
exceptions to this subsection; provided, that any such exception and the
reasons therefor are entered into the minutes of the city council. (1984 Code §
34-23)
   C.   Newsracks On Public Ways And Property:
      1.   No newsrack or newspaper vending box or stand shall be placed or
allowed to remain upon the Corn Palace or Corn Palace parking lot premises,
city hall or city hall parking lot premises or the sidewalks adjacent thereto
(block 6, Rowley's first addition to the city of Mitchell, Davison County,
South Dakota).
      2.   No person shall suffer or allow any newsrack, newspaper rack or
stand to be placed upon any sidewalk or public way in the city in a manner or
location which unreasonably interferes with or impedes the flow of pedestrian
or vehicular traffic or creates a hazard to the persons or property within the
city or causes or creates a nuisance.
      3.   No newsrack may be fastened to or secured upon any public way or
public property and may not be claimed or fastened to any public light pole,
street sign or other publicly owned fixture or structure. (Ord. 1535, 7-21-
1986)
      4.   The penalty for violation of any of the provisions of this
subsection and for each of said violations shall be as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation of this subsection exists shall be
deemed to be a new and separate violation. (Ord. 1535, 7-21-1986; amd. 2005
Code)
   D.   Awnings Over Sidewalks 1 : (Rep. by Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
   E.   Service Stations And Pumps On Public Ways: No person shall locate,
construct or maintain any gasoline or oil filling station or pump, in whole or
in part, upon any street, parking or sidewalk or under any public right of way.
(1984 Code § 34-13; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 9-4-5K4 of this code.
8-1-4: DAMAGE TO PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Moving Things Over Public Ways:
      1.   No person shall drag over any of the streets or alleys of the city
any branches of trees, chain or other material which shall come in contact with
and drag upon such roadway. This subsection A1 shall not apply to machines used
in maintaining the streets and alleys, under the supervision of the director of
public works. (1984 Code § 34-7)
      2.   No person shall move any article over any street or alley within the
city unless such article is entirely supported on wheels, except when such
operation is specifically authorized by the Director of Public Works. (1984
Code § 34-24)
   B.   Vehicles With Lugs: No person shall haul, drive or convey across or
upon any of the paved or bituminous surfaced streets, alleys or crosswalks of
the City any engine, tractor, machine or vehicle having lugs, cogs or spikes on
the wheels or tracks thereof without first having planked such pavement in a
manner sufficient to prevent damage to such pavement. (1984 Code § 34-6)
   C.   Fires On Pavements: No person shall burn or permit to be burned any
material of any kind upon any paved or bituminous surfaced street, alley or
public place 1 . (1984 Code § 34-11)
   D.   Use Of Saltwater Mixtures: No person shall deposit or cause to be
deposited, directly or indirectly any salt or saltwater brine upon any
sidewalk, street or alley, except for the placing of salt upon sidewalks and
pavements when it is necessary to protect pedestrians from slipping on the ice.
(1984 Code § 34-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  5-4-4 of this Code.
8-1-5: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Vehicle Obstructions: No person shall place, leave or keep on any
street, road, alley, sidewalk or other public ground any vehicle, except when
the same shall be in actual use or parked as provided by this Code 1  or other
Traffic Ordinances or any other article, substance or material which may
obstruct the free use of such street, road, alley, sidewalk or public ground.
(1984 Code § 34-1)
   B.   Train Obstructions: No railroad company, engineer, conductor or other
employee of such company shall cause or allow any locomotive engine, car or
train to stop or remain on any street or railroad crossing for a longer period
than five (5) minutes at any one time; provided, that in case of accident at
any such place, a reasonable time shall be allowed to remove any obstruction
caused thereby. (1984 Code § 34-10)
   C.   Sight Triangle At Intersections 2 : (Rep. by Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
   D.   Crowds Obstructing Public Ways: It shall be unlawful for persons to
gather in crowds or groups or for any person to stand on any public street or
sidewalk in such a manner as to obstruct free passage thereon or to annoy other
persons passing along the same, and any police officer is authorized to
disperse any crowd or group or to cause the removal of any person violating the
provisions of this subsection and to summarily arrest any person in case of
refusal to obey any reasonable direction or preventing annoyance to any
passerby on any public street or sidewalk. (1984 Code § 34-20)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 7, chapter 4 of this Code.
2 1. See subsection 9-4-5I of this Code.
8-1-6: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Depositing Rubbish Or Injurious Material On Public Ways: No person
shall place, throw or deposit or cause to be thrown, placed or deposited on any
street, alley or public place any of the following:
      1.   Any stone, brick, gravel, crushed rock, asphalt, tar, oil or grease
or any other substance injurious to pavement.
      2.   Any ashes, rubbish, manure, carcass of any dead animal or any other
filthy or offensive matter or thing. This subsection shall not apply to
building material placed on streets or provided by this Code or other
ordinance. (1984 Code § 34-3)
   B.   Leaving Rubbish Or Sweepings Within Business District: No person,
except City employees actually engaged in cleaning streets or alleys, shall
deposit or leave in any street or alley within the Business District of the
City any sweepings or rubbish. (1984 Code § 34-22)
   C.   Tampering With Public Ways And Property: No person shall injure or
remove any pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk, drain or sewer or dig any hole, ditch
or drains in any street, alley or public ground or remove any of the gravel,
sand or soil therefrom, except when authorized by the Director of Public Works.
(1984 Code § 34-5)
   D.   Vehicles On Parkings Or Sidewalks: See subsection
7-3-8B of this Code. (Ord. O2019-03, 4-15-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
8-1-7: SIDEWALK SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
8-1-7-1: DUTY TO REMOVE IN GENERAL:
The occupant or owner of any premises in the City shall remove all snow and ice
from the entire width of all adjacent public sidewalks within forty eight (48)
hours after the fall of snow or the formation of ice on such sidewalk. Adjacent
sidewalk shall include all sidewalk located in public right-of-way and between
the property line and the nearest roadway. Adjacent sidewalk shall also include
all sidewalk located on private property but within a sidewalk easement. No
occupant or owner may be relieved of this duty except by application of section
8-1-7-2 of this section
8-1-7. (Ord. O2018-08, 9-17-2018)
8-1-7-2: SPECIAL REMOVAL AREAS DESIGNATED:
For the purposes of maintaining aesthetics, lengthening the useful life of
sidewalks, and establishing certain priority routes for pedestrian travel, the
City Council may designate special removal areas by resolution. In such special
removal areas, the general duty under section
8-1-7-1 of this section
8-1-7 shall not apply and the City of Mitchell shall be responsible for
sidewalk snow and ice removal. (Ord. O2018-08, 9-17-2018)
8-1-7-3: REMOVAL BY CITY UPON VIOLATION:
If the owner or occupant of any premises shall fail, neglect, or refuse to
comply with section
8-1-7-1 of this section
8-1-7, it shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to remove or cause
the removal of such snow or ice. Such owner or occupant shall be responsible
for all costs of removal in addition to any fines that may apply. The City may
contract with private persons to accomplish the removal of snow or ice as is
required by this section. (Ord. O2018-08, 9-17-2018)
8-1-7-4: COSTS FOR REMOVAL:
   A.   Account Of Cost: The Director of Public Works shall cause to be kept an
account of the costs for snow and ice removal under section
8-1-7-3 of this section
8-1-7 as to each lot or parcel of land so cleared. Such accounting shall be
certified to the Finance Officer following every snow season.
   B.   Estimate And Notice Of Assessment: The Finance Officer shall prepare an
estimate of the assessment against each lot for snow and ice removal to include
the expense of levying such special assessment against each lot. The Finance
Officer shall cause to be published in the official newspaper the assessment
roll, together with a notice of the time and place when the City Council will
meet for the purpose of considering such assessment roll. Such notice shall be
published once a week for two (2) successive weeks prior to the date of the
hearing.
   C.   Approval By City Council; Filing Of Assessment: Upon the day so named,
the City Council shall meet, and if it finds the estimate correct, it shall
approve the same by resolution, or if not correct, it shall correct or modify
the same and approve the same as modified or corrected and file such assessment
roll with the Finance Officer.
   D.   Lien Against Property: From the date of the approval and filing of such
assessment roll with the Finance Officer, the same shall be and become a
special lien against the various pieces of property described in the assessment
roll and shall be collected in like manner as special assessments for public
improvements are now collected. (Ord. O2018-08, 9-17-2018)
8-1-8: SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE:
The owner or occupant of any lot or private ground abutting upon any public
sidewalk shall not allow rubbish, debris or obstruction of any kind to be or
remain on such sidewalk along such abutting property. (1984 Code § 34-9)
8-1-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, in addition
to other penalties, be liable for any damage caused by such violation. (1984
Code § 34-14)
ARTICLE A. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION 1
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Supervision
8-1A-2: Permit Requirements
8-1A-3: Design Standards
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-2-3 of this code for required new sidewalks.
8-1A-1: SUPERVISION:
The construction of all sidewalks, street or alley crossings within or upon the
streets or alleys in the city shall at all times be under the supervision of
the director of public works. (1984 Code § 34-26)
8-1A-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No person shall construct any sidewalk or street or alley crossing
without first having secured a permit from the director of public works.
   B.   Such permit shall be in the form approved by the city council and shall
state the date when the permit is issued, a detailed and definite description
of the location where the walk or crossing is to be built, the name of the
person intending to construct such walk or crossing and a statement to be
signed by such person or by a duly authorized representative that he will
conform to all the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city in the
execution of the work. (1984 Code § 34-26)
8-1A-3: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: All sidewalks, streets and alley crossings
in the city shall be constructed of the material and in the manner provided by
city specifications on file with the director of public works. (1984 Code § 34-
26; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Thickness: Except as may be otherwise provided, all sidewalks, except
street and alley crosswalks, shall be not less than four inches (4") in
thickness. Street and alley crosswalks shall be six inches (6") in thickness.
(1984 Code § 34-37)
   C.   Width: The width of all sidewalks shall be as provided in this
subsection.
      1.   The width of sidewalks shall extend from the property line to the
curb at the following places:
         a.   On Main Street from the right of way of the Chicago, Milwaukee,
St. Paul and Pacific Railway Company to the right of way of the Chicago, St.
Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha Railway Company.
         b.   On Railroad Street from South Kimball Street to South Sanborn
Boulevard.
         c.   On First Avenue from South Kimball Street to Duff Street.
         d.   On Second Avenue, Oscar Howe Avenue and Fourth Avenue from North
Lawler Street to North Rowley Street.
         e.   On Fifth and Sixth Avenues from the alley between Main and Lawler
Streets to the alley between Main and Rowley Streets.
      2.   Sidewalks in all other parts of the city shall be five feet (5') in
width; except, that the sidewalk in front of any property may be, at the option
of the owner, extended from the property line to the curb. (1984 Code § 34-38)
   D.   Location: Sidewalks shall be placed on street right of way six inches
(6") from the property line. (1984 Code § 34-39)
ARTICLE B. EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-1B-1: Supervision
8-1B-2: Permit Requirements
8-1B-3: Fees
8-1B-4: Barricades And Lights
8-1B-5: Construction Regulations
8-1B-6: Guarantee
8-1B-1: SUPERVISION:
The director of public works shall supervise all excavations made for any
purpose in the streets, alleys, parkings or public grounds in the city and
shall require that all excavations be refilled in the manner specified in this
article, and shall have the authority to regulate the width of trenches into
which no people will enter. (1984 Code §§ 34-42, 34-47)
8-1B-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit:
      1.   Required: No person shall make or cause to be made any excavation in
or under any street, parking, sidewalk, alley or public ground or remove any
earth, paving, gravel, curb and gutter or other material therefrom without
having first obtained a written permit therefor from the director of public
works.
      2.   Fees: In addition to the fees currently in existence for said
excavation permit, additional fees shall be charged for curb and gutter and
other concrete which excavator shall remove or tunnel under, thus weakening
said concrete, as follows:
 
Concrete curb and gutter  $30.00 per linear foot (10 foot minimum)
Concrete flat work:        
   4 inches and under  $4.00 per square foot
   6 inches            $6.00 per square foot
   Over 6 inches       $6.00 per square foot plus $1.00 per square foot per
                           inch of thickness over 6 inches
 
      3.   Setting Of Fees By Resolution: Fees for excavation permit, including
asphalt, base, concrete shall hereafter be set by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 2283, 7-21-2008)
   B.   Application For Permit: Any person desiring to make any excavation in
public property shall make a written application to the director of public
works, in which application shall be stated:
      1.   The legal description of the lots adjacent to which such excavation
is to be made.
      2.   The building number of the lots adjacent to which such excavation is
to be made, if applicable.
      3.   The dimensions of such excavation.
      4.   The purpose for which such excavation is to be made.
      5.   Whether or not such applicant filed a bond with the finance officer
as required by this article.
      6.   The amount of bituminous pavement replacement fee if replacement
will be done by the city. (1984 Code § 34-41)
   C.   Qualifications: Excavation permits will be issued to licensed plumbers
and to the public utility companies under franchise from the city. (1984 Code §
34-42)
   D.   Bond: The city may require that bond be posted for the purpose of
guaranteeing that excavations are properly backfilled and cleaned up and that
the fees are paid. The amount of the bond shall be five thousand dollars
($5,000.00). The city may in its discretion waive the posting of bond. (1984
Code § 34-42; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit:
      1.   If the director of public works finds that such excavation can be
made with no undue inconvenience to the public and that the applicant is
qualified to make such excavation and has made the required deposit with the
finance officer or filed a proper bond, as required by this article, then he
shall issue to such applicant a written permit to make such excavation.
      2.   If the director of public works finds that the excavator is not
compacting the backfill to ninety five percent (95%) of maximum dry density, as
determined by test method AASHTO T-99 or other methods approved by the director
of public works, or if the backfill on previous trenches settles or if the
paving is improperly replaced, he may refuse to issue any further permits for
street excavation until the unsatisfactory excavations are satisfactorily
compacted and all paving is properly replaced. (1984 Code § 34-44)
8-1B-3: FEES:
Where it is necessary to make any street excavation, there shall be deposited
with the finance officer an amount established in the schedule adopted from
time to time by resolution of the city council. A fee for each separate
excavation will be charged according to the schedule, and the fees shall be
doubled for excavations made between November 1 and March 31. The charges for
excavations in concrete streets shall be twice the rate for bituminous streets.
For purposes of computing the square footage for the required charges, any cut
narrower than twelve inches (12") shall be considered to be a twelve inch (12")
cut. (1984 Code § 34-45; amd. 2005 Code)
8-1B-4: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS:
Any person receiving a permit to make excavations in or upon any street, alley,
parking or public ground shall, during the progress and continuance of work,
erect and maintain around the same both by day and by night, suitable guards,
fences, lanterns and signals so as to prevent injury to persons, animals or
vehicles on account of such excavations. Such lanterns or other lights shall be
kept lighted from sundown to sunrise. Traffic signing shall be to the standards
of the manual of uniform traffic control devices, a copy of which is on file
with the director of public works. (1984 Code § 34-48; amd. 2005 Code)
8-1B-5: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Guard Protection Required: No person, owner or occupant of any lot
shall make or cause to be made any excavation on a lot adjacent to any street,
alley, parking, public ground or traveled road or roadway, unless the same
shall be securely guarded so as to prevent the injury to any person or animal
passing along such lot. (1984 Code § 34-49)
   B.   Excavations For Cellars Under Sidewalks: No person having or erecting
any building abutting upon any street, avenue or alley may excavate under the
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a cellar or basement under the
sidewalk in front of or adjoining such building. (1984 Code § 34-51)
   C.   Straight Edges: Where existing pavement is removed, the excavator
shall, by sawing or other satisfactory method, ensure that the pavement edges
are straight and vertical.
   D.   Paving And Patches:
      1.   The permittee may replace bituminous paving with hot asphalt
concrete bituminous mix if he has experienced personnel and proper equipment
and demonstrates a record of smooth, well done patching. The edges of the
existing paving and the gravel base course shall be primed in a manner
satisfactory to the director of public works before replacing paving.
      2.   If the permittee replaces the bituminous paving, he will maintain
the street excavation until he has replaced the paving. The paving shall be
placed as soon as hot bituminous concrete mix is available. (1984 Code § 34-45)
   E.   Refilling Excavation: Any person making an excavation shall, when the
same has been completed, promptly and without delay refill the same as provided
in this subsection.
      1.   In refilling any excavation, the earth shall be thoroughly tamped as
the refilling progresses. The earth shall be thoroughly tamped in successive
layers in such manner that the fill is compacted to ninety five percent (95%)
of the maximum dry density as determined by test method AASHTO T-99 or other
methods approved by the director of public works.
      2.   In refilling excavations through base course or pavement, the
contractor shall thoroughly clean up all excess material and shall clean out
foreign material in the trench to the depth of the pavement but not less than
an eight inch (8") depth. He shall place base course to pavement level, compact
it thoroughly with water as needed and clean the excess gravel off the
pavement. The gravel for such street excavation will be delivered to the
excavation site by the city at no charge if at least eight (8) hours' notice is
given. (1984 Code § 34-46)
8-1B-6: GUARANTEE:
If, at any time within one year after the issuance of the excavation permit,
the director of public works shall find that the excavator has not properly
backfilled the excavation or has not properly replaced the pavement, he shall
notify the excavator, in writing, that the work shall be put in satisfactory
condition within ten (10) days. If the excavator fails to comply with the
direction of such notice, the director of public works shall have the authority
to cause such work to be put in proper and satisfactory condition and cause the
expense to be borne by the excavator. (1984 Code § 34-43)
ARTICLE C. STREET NAMES AND BUILDING NUMBERS
SECTION:
8-1C-1: Baselines
8-1C-2: Street Names
8-1C-3: Building Numbers
8-1C-1: BASELINES:
   A.   The street named Main Street on the original plat of the city, together
with the extensions of such street, shall continue to be known as Main Street
and shall be the north and south baseline. The following are street names
parallel to Main Street unless otherwise referenced in this section.
   B.   The street named First Avenue on the original plat of the city,
together with the extensions of such street, shall be known as First Avenue and
shall be the east and west baseline. The following street names parallel to
First Avenue unless otherwise referenced in this section. (1984 Code § 34-54;
amd. Ord. 2528, 2-16-2016)
8-1C-2: STREET NAMES:
   A.   Streets Parallel To Main Street:
      1.   All streets parallel to and west from Main Street, in successive
order westward, shall be named throughout their extensions within the city,
except as otherwise provided, as follows: Rowley Street, Duff Street, Sanborn
Boulevard, Edmunds Street, Wisconsin Street, Minnesota Street, Montana Street,
Iowa Street, Isadore Street, Juanita Street, Edgerton Street, Johnson Street
and Ohlman Street.
      2.   All streets parallel to and east from Main Street, in successive
order eastward, shall be named throughout their extensions within the city as
follows: Lawler Street, Kimball Street, Langdon Street, Davison Street, Burr
Street, Capital Street, Winsor Street, Mentzer Street, Gamble Street, Kittridge
Street, Hunter Street, Foster Street, Marshal Street and Taylor Street. (1984
Code § 34-55)
   B.   Street Prefixes:
      1.   North And South: All parts of the streets named in subsection A of
this section extending south of First Avenue shall have "South" prefixed to
their names, and all parts of such streets extending north of First Avenue
shall have "North" prefixed to their names. (1984 Code § 34-56)
      2.   East And West: All parts of the streets named in subsection A of
this section extending east of Main Street shall have "East" prefixed to their
names. All parts of such streets extending west of Main Street shall have
"West" prefixed to their names. (1984 Code § 34-57)
   C.   Avenues Parallel To First Avenue:
      1.   All streets parallel to and north from First Avenue, in successive
order northward, shall be named throughout their extensions within the city as
follows: Second Avenue, Oscar Howe Avenue, Fourth Avenue and so on in numerical
succession until the north limits of the city are reached.
      2.   The street next south of First Avenue and running parallel to the
main track of Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad and extending
from Sanborn Boulevard to Kimball Street shall be named Railroad Avenue.
      3.   The street parallel to and next south of First Avenue shall be named
throughout its extension within the city as Hanson Avenue and the next streets
parallel to and south of Hanson Avenue shall be named throughout their
extension within the city, except those in University Addition, successively
southward, as follows: Ash, Birch, Cedar, Douglas, Elm, Fir, Gum, Hackberry,
Ivy, Juniper, Kay, Linden and Maple. (1984 Code § 34-58)
   D.   Exceptions; Other Designations:
      1.   University Addition: University Addition to the city shall be an
exception to the provisions of this section, and the streets, places, courts,
avenues and boulevards shall retain the names assigned to them as shown on the
original plat of such addition, now of record in the office of the register of
deeds of the county; except:
East University Avenue is hereby changed to McGovern Avenue.
Hurst Street is hereby changed to Hurst Avenue.
Pennington Avenue is hereby changed to South Rowley Street.
Williams Street is hereby changed to Williams Avenue. (Ord. 2206, 6-19-2006;
amd. Ord. 2244, 5-21-2007)
      2.   Harmon Drive At Lake Mitchell: The road meandering around Lake
Mitchell, as shown on the "plat showing extension of the city limits of
Mitchell, South Dakota to include Lake Mitchell", which plat now appears of
record in the office of the register of deeds of the county in volume 4 at page
40 thereof, is hereby named in honor of A.J. Harmon, as follows:
         a.   That part of such road north of Lake Mitchell and extending from
the northeast corner of section 9, township 103 and range 60 to the point where
such road crosses the line between section 6 in such township and range and
section 31, township 104 and range 60 as shown on such plat, shall be known and
designated as North Harmon Drive. (1984 Code § 34-60)
         b.   That part of such road south of Lake Mitchell and extending from
the west end of North Harmon Drive to the point where such road intersects
North Ohlman Street shall be known and designated as West Harmon Drive. (1984
Code § 34-60; amd. 2005 Code)
         c.   That part of such road south of Lake Mitchell and extending from
the point where West Harmon Drive intersects North Ohlman Street to Ohlman
Street at the southeast corner of section 4, township 103, range 60 and within
the area commonly known as Indianhead shall be known as South Harmon Drive.
(1984 Code § 34-60)
   E.   Street Name Changes:
      1.   Indian Village Road: The public roadway within the city heretofore
named and designated as Golf Course Road and south of Lake Mitchell within
section 9, township 103, range 60 shall be renamed and shall hereafter be
designated as Indian Village Road, and all references made to Golf Course Road
in any plat, map or other document filed in any city, county or state office
shall hereafter refer to Indian Village Road. (1984 Code § 34-61)
      2.   Twenty Third Avenue: The public roadway within the city, heretofore
named and designated as Cemetery Road, shall be renamed and shall hereafter be
designated as Twenty Third Avenue and all references made to Cemetery Road in
any plat, map or other document filed in any city, county or state office shall
hereafter refer to Twenty Third Avenue. (1984 Code § 34-62)
      3.   South Anderson Street: The segment of dedicated street right of way
within the city denominated in the approved plat thereof as Wesley Acres Drive,
shall henceforth be named and known as South Anderson Street. (Ord. 1966, 4-3-
2000)
      4.   Charles Avenue: The east and west segment of dedicated street right
of way within the city denominated in the approved plats recorded with the
Davison County register of deeds in book 19 page 7, dated November 6, 2002,
book 19 page 8, dated November 6, 2002, and book 18 page 3, dated thereof, as
Charles Street, shall henceforth be named and known as Charles Avenue. (Ord.
2075, 3-17-2003)
      5.   Quiett Lane: The dedicated street right of way within the city
denominated in the approved plat recorded with the Davis County register of
deeds in book 18, page 3, recorded June 13, 2001, identified as Sam Avenue,
shall henceforth be named and known as Quiett Lane. (Ord. 2107, 12-15-2003)
      6.   South Pepsi Street: The portion of the public right of way now named
"Harriet Street" that is located within the corporate limits of the city of
Mitchell, South Dakota, and abutting block A, Westview Addition; lots 2A and 2,
block B, Westview Addition; lot 2, block C, Westview Addition; block D,
Westview Addition; block A, Jones Addition; north three hundred forty feet
(340') of block C, Jones Addition; is hereby changed to "South Pepsi Street".
(Ord. 2338, 8-2-2010)
      7.   Grassland Drive: That portion of South Langdon Street extending
south of Cabela Drive and north of Spruce Street as referenced in the plat of
lot 5-A and South Langdon Street, being a portion of originally platted lot 5
of Cabela's First Addition to the city of Mitchell, Davison County, South
Dakota, that is filed with the Davison County register of deeds in book 24,
page 34 and any future extension of said street is hereby changed from South
Langdon Street to Grassland Drive. (Ord. 2528, 2-16-2016)
      8.   The public right-of-way now named Home Federal Avenue and dedicated
and identified on the Plat Book 21, Page 5 that is recorded with the Davison
County Register of Deeds is hereby changed to Iverson Avenue. (Ord. O2021-03,
4-5-2021)
   F.   New Additions: All streets in new additions to the city shall be named
as the city council shall indicate, and the names of all streets shall be
placed upon the approved and registered plat shall bear the names indicated
upon the plat unless the same shall be changed by the city council by
ordinance. (1984 Code § 34-63)
   G.   Streets And Roads Outside City Limits: The streets and roads lying
outside of the city limits, but within the city zoning jurisdiction, and which
have not been incorporated in the statewide rural addressing system, which are
hereafter specifically identified, shall be named and identified as follows:
      1.   The north/south section line roadway between sections 11 and 12, 13
and 14, 23 and 24, 25 and 26 and 35 and 36, all within T103N-R60W, shall be
named Gale Road.
      2.   The north/south section line roadway between sections 5 and 6, 7 and
8, 17 and 18, 19 and 20, 29 and 30 and 31 and 32 in T103N-R60W and sections 29
and 30 and 31 and 32 in T104N-R60W, shall be named Navin Road.
      3.   The east/west section line roadway between sections 32, 33, 34 and
the west 1/2 of 35, T103N-R60W and sections 3, 4, 5 and the west 1/2 of 2 in
T104N-R60W, shall be named Willow Street.
      4.   The east/west dedicated roadway between lots 2, 3, 2E, 2F, 2A, 2B,
2C, 4A, 4B and 4C within Cranes Addition (SW1/4 34-T103N-R60W), shall be named
Carl Road.
      5.   The north/south dedicated roadway between lots 2C and lot 4A and the
east west dedicated roadway between lots 4A, 4B, 4C and lot 5, within Cranes
Addition (SW1/4 34-T103N-R60W), shall be named Sunset Road. (Ord. 1748, 10-18-
1993; amd. 2005 Code)
8-1C-3: BUILDING NUMBERS:
   A.   Numbers Required: All residences and business buildings now located or
hereafter constructed or located on properties within the city limits shall be
numbered as provided in this section. (1984 Code § 34-64)
   B.   Baselines For Numbering: Main Street shall be the baseline running
north and south from which shall be determined the proper hundred numeral, as
provided in this section, for blocks on all streets and avenues running east
and west, and First Avenue shall be the baseline running east and west from
which shall be determined the proper hundred numerical, as provided in this
section, for blocks in all streets running north and south. (1984 Code § 34-65)
      1.   East And West Streets: The numbering of all lots fronting on streets
and avenues running east or west from Main Street shall commence at Main Street
with the numeral "100", odd numbers to be on the south side of the streets and
avenues, the even numbers to be on the north sides of the streets and avenues
and directly opposite the corresponding odd numbers and, thus, alternately to
the end of each block, one hundred (100) numbers being allotted to each block
of frontage, and such numbering shall continue east or west, in successive
order of such blocks, until the east or west limits of such streets and avenues
are reached. (1984 Code § 34-66)
      2.   North And South Streets: The numbering of all lots fronting on
streets running north or south from First Avenue shall commence at First Avenue
with the numeral "100", the odd numbers to be on the west sides of the streets,
the even numbers to be on the east sides of the streets and directly opposite
the corresponding odd numbers and, thus, alternately to the end of each block,
one hundred (100) numbers being allotted to each block of frontage, and such
numbering shall continue north and south in successive order of such blocks
until the north and south limits of such streets are reached. (1984 Code § 34-
67)
   C.   Exceptions; Other Designations:
      1.   Numbering When Section Does Not Govern: The numbering of all lots
fronting on streets, courts, places, avenues and boulevards in the city, not
governed by the provisions of this section shall, except as otherwise provided,
commence with the corners nearest to and proceeding from the baseline provided
in this section, running at right angles to such streets, avenues, courts and
boulevards and shall commence with the numeral "100", the odd numbers to be on
the south and west sides of such streets, courts, places, avenues and
boulevards and the even numbers to be on the north and east sides of such
streets, courts, places, avenues and boulevards directly opposite the
corresponding odd numbers and, thus, alternately to the end of each block, one
hundred (100) numbers being allotted to each block of frontage, and such
numbering shall continue in successive order on such streets, courts, avenues,
places and boulevards until their limits are reached; provided, that wherever
such streets, courts, places, avenues and boulevards are extensions of streets
proceeding from the baselines provided in this section, the number of all
blocks shall commence with the "100" numeral next following that "100" numeral
used in numbering the last blocks of the streets of which such streets, courts,
places, avenues and boulevards are extensions. (1984 Code § 34-68)
      2.   Mitchell Boulevard: Mitchell Boulevard in University Addition shall
be an exception to the provisions of this section. The numbering of all lots
fronting on this boulevard shall, at the point where it meets University
Boulevard, commence with the numeral "600", the odd numbers to be on the right
hand side of the boulevard and the even numbers to be on the left hand side of
the boulevard and opposite the corresponding odd numbers and, thus, alternately
to the end of each block, one hundred (100) numbers being allotted to each
block of frontage, and such numbering shall continue in successive order
throughout the length of such boulevard. (1984 Code § 34-69)
      3.   Subdivisions At Lake Mitchell: All residences and business buildings
constructed or located on properties within the city and upon lots or
subdivisions located and laid out at Lake Mitchell shall be numbered as
hereinafter provided:
         a.   Lot number 1, Bayside Subdivision, shall hereafter by known as
North Harmon Drive number 2 and each lot hereafter of the Bayside Subdivision
shall be numbered by consecutive even numeral marking and the address shall be
North Harmon Drive.
         b.   Sunset Point Subdivision number 1 shall be designated as North
Harmon Drive number 98, and each succeeding lot of Sunset Point Subdivision
shall be numbered by consecutive even numeral marking as herein before
designated.
         c.   Indianhead Subdivision lot number one shall carry the designation
South Harmon Drive number 1, and each succeeding lot shall be numbered by
consecutive odd numeral marking throughout the entire Indianhead Subdivision.
         d.   Nels Jensen Subdivision lot number 1 shall carry the designation
of West Harmon Drive number 1, and each succeeding lot shall be numbered by
consecutive odd numeral marking. (1984 Code § 34-72)
      4.   Grassland Drive: That portion of South Langdon Street extending
south of Cabela Drive and north of Spruce Street as referenced in the plat of
lot 5-A and South Langdon Street, being a portion of originally platted lot 5
of Cabela's First Addition to the city of Mitchell, Davison County, South
Dakota, that is filed with the Davison County register of deeds in book 24,
page 34 and any future extension of said street is hereby changed from South
Langdon Street to Grassland Drive is an exception to the numbering set forth in
subsections 8-1C-3A and B of this section. The address range in this street
shall be the 1900 block; however individual buildings may be numbered to
accommodate a campus complex. (Ord. 2528, 2-16-2016)
   D.   Assigning Numbers:
      1.   One number shall be provided for each twenty five foot (25')
frontage on all streets and avenues within the city beginning with the corner
nearest to and proceeding from the baselines provided in this section.
      2.   All buildings coming under the provisions of this section shall take
the numbers determined by the frontages on which they stand. Fractional numbers
may be used to determine numbers for additional ground entrances where the
provisions of this section do not provide for such numbering.
      3.   In cases where there is any doubt about the proper number to be
assigned to any block of twenty five feet (25') of frontage, the director of
public works shall act as a referee and be final authority. He shall be
governed in his rulings by the general provisions for this section. (1984 Code
§ 34-70)
   E.   Number Specifications; Maintenance:
      1.   Numbers for buildings as provided in this section shall be composed
of figures not less than three inches (3") in height and one-half inch (1/2")
in width and shall be made or painted on glass or some metallic substance.
      2.   It is hereby made the duty of the owner and the persons in charge of
any building to place and maintain the numbers as provided in this section.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully remove, deface,
obscure or destroy any number upon a building. (1984 Code § 34-71)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Permitted Trees
8-2-2: Injury Or Damage Prohibited
8-2-3: Trimming
8-2-4: Removal Of Dangerous Trees
8-2-5: Trees And Shrubs At Intersections
8-2-6: Violations And Penalties
8-2-1: PERMITTED TREES:
The Park and Recreation Board shall determine which species of tree are
permitted to be planted as a street tree and may also designate certain species
as not permitted. The Park and Recreation Board may also determine the variety
of such trees to be so planted and the spacing thereof. No person or entity
shall plant a street tree until the proposed street tree's location and species
has been approved by the Park and Recreation Director in writing. (Ord. O2019-
01, 2-4-2019)
8-2-2: INJURY OR DAMAGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Injury Prohibited: No person shall, in any manner, remove, destroy,
mutilate, cut, deface or otherwise injure or interfere with any trees, shrubs
or plants upon any street, parking or other public ground in the City without a
written permit from the Superintendent of Parks, except that the owner of any
lot or parcel of land may properly trim or remove broken or dead limbs or
branches from trees standing on the parking adjoining such lot or land. (1984
Code § 37-1)
   B.   Placing Material Against Trees: No material of any description shall be
placed against any tree unless the tree is first sufficiently protected by a
proper guard to prevent injury. (1984 Code § 37-7)
   C.   Moving Buildings:
      1.   Injury To Trees By Moving Buildings: No person shall move any
building along any street in such way as to interfere with or injure any tree
in such street without having secured from the building official a permit with
the approval of the Director of Park and Recreation. (1984 Code § 37-8)
      2.   Trimming To Move Buildings: Any trimming or moving of trees made
necessary for the moving of a building or other structure shall be done under
the supervision of the Director of Park and Recreation and at the expense of
the applicant. Should injury or death result to any tree because of such
trimming or moving, the applicant shall, upon direction of the Director of Park
and Recreation, replace the same at his own expense. (1984 Code § 37-4)
   D.   Paving Around Trees: No paving of any description shall be laid or
maintained by anyone between sidewalk and curb which will cut off the air and
water from any street tree. A space of approximately twenty five (25) square
feet shall be left open for each tree, which space may be covered with a
suitable grating, the plans and specifications of which have first been
submitted to and approved by the Director of Park and Recreation. (1984 Code §
37-9; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   Utility Wires And Cables: The Park and Recreation Board shall have the
power to remove any wire, cable, conduit or other thing that burns, cuts or
chafes any part of any street tree in case the owner of the wires shall fail,
after three (3) days' notice, to take adequate steps to prevent further injury.
(1984 Code § 37-10)
8-2-3: TRIMMING:
   A.   The occupant or owner of any premises abutting upon any street shall
keep all trees standing upon such premises or between the same and the center
of the adjoining streets so trimmed that they comply with the specifications of
the Park and Recreation Board. (1984 Code § 37-2)
   B.   All large established trees shall be trimmed to a sufficient height to
allow free passage of pedestrians and vehicular traffic and in such manner so
as to allow:
      1.   Eight feet (8') clearance over all sidewalks;
      2.   Twelve feet (12') clearance over all local streets and alleys; and
      3.   Fifteen feet (15') clearance over all arterial and collector
streets. (Ord. O2019-01, 2-4-2019)
8-2-4: REMOVAL OF DANGEROUS TREES:
   A.   The owner of any property upon which there is any tree constituting a
hazard to persons or property shall remove the same at his own expense. In case
such owner shall neglect or refuse to remove such a tree upon notice by the
Park and Recreation Board, the same may be removed by the board, and the cost
thereof shall be collected from such owner.
   B.   In the case of a tree constituting a hazard to persons or property
which is located between a property owner's property and the centerline of the
adjoining street, the City shall notify the property owner that the hazardous
tree requires removal. Upon receiving notice, a property owner may choose to
have the tree removed at the property owner's sole expense. In the event such
hazardous tree is not removed within the time designated in the notice, the
Park and Recreation Department may proceed with the removal of said hazardous
tree. The property owner shall be responsible for the costs of such removal
according to rates established by the Park and Recreation Board.
   C.   For the purposes of this section, a tree constituting a hazard is one
that is dead, dying, infected, damaged, or is otherwise in a condition which
poses an unreasonable risk to the health and safety of persons or property.
(Ord. O2019-01, 2-4-2019)
8-2-5: TREES AND SHRUBS AT INTERSECTIONS:
No person shall plant, maintain or permit to grow any tree, hedge, bush or
shrubbery of any kind which has a mature growing height of greater than twenty
four inches (24") within the triangle formed by the adjacent side lines of two
(2) intersecting streets and the line joining points distant thirty five feet
(35') on each side line from their point of intersection. Any tree, hedge, bush
or shrubbery planted or growing within the above defined triangle exceeding
twenty four inches (24") in height is declared a public nuisance and hazard to
public safety and shall be subject to summary abatement by the City by removal.
For the purpose of this section, "side line of street" shall mean the curb line
on those streets where curb is installed, and where curb is not installed,
"side line of street" shall mean that line which otherwise would be the curb
line of a standard City street if such curb was installed and centered within
the right-of-way. (Ord. 1652, 12-18-1989)
8-2-6: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). The Director of Park and
Recreation shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, and may bring complaints against any individual who shall violate any
provision hereof. (1984 Code § 37-18)
CHAPTER 3
PARKS AND PARKWAYS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Public Parks Established
8-3-3: Parkways Established
8-3-4: Rules And Regulations
8-3-5: Prohibited And Restricted Acts And Conditions
8-3-6: Areas Dedicated For Public Use
 
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
BOULEVARD: Those strips of land next to public roadways lying between the curb
and the platted line of the adjoining real property used for the planting and
growth of trees and grass. Synonymous with "parking" as defined herein.
PARK: All those tracts of land used or in possession of the city, set apart or
dedicated as places of public recreation.
PARKING: Those strips of land next to public roadways lying between the curb
and the platted line of the adjoining real property used for the planting and
growth of trees and grass. Synonymous with "boulevard" as defined herein.
PARKWAY: Those tracts of land situated on public roadways, not open to public
travel but set apart for the planting and growth of grass, flowers, shrubbery
and trees and the beautifying of the roadway, but not including parkings or
boulevards. (Ord. 2541, 5-16-2016)
8-3-2: PUBLIC PARKS ESTABLISHED:
The following listed parks heretofore established, are designed and established
as public parks at respective places according to the plats of certain
additions to the city, as such plats now appear of record in the office of the
register of deeds of the county:
Amphitheater Area: All that property in the north half of the southeast quarter
of section 9, township 103 north, range 60, west of the 5th P.M., lying between
Indian Village Road and Lake Mitchell.
Boat Ramp Area, East: That property which the northwest quarter of the
northeast quarter of section 9, township 103 north, range 60, west of the 5th
P.M, lying between Indian Village Road and Lake Mitchell, and not within the
fenced boundary of the prehistoric Indian village.
Boat Ramp Area, West: All that property within the southwest quarter of the
northeast quarter of section 5, lying between Lake Mitchell and West Harmon
Drive, and irregular tract no. 1 in the northwest quarter of section 5, all in
township 103 north, range 60, west of the 5th P.M., Davison County, South
Dakota.
Cadwell Sports Complex: Outlot B-1, north six hundred ninety feet (690') of
outlot A-1, Shelvin's First Addition, and the southwest quarter of section 16,
all in township 103 north, range 60, west of the 5th P.M.
Dakota Wesleyan University Campus: East three hundred feet (300') lying between
Hurst Street on the north and Norway Street on the south, bordered on the east
by vacated University Avenue, less the Morrow Gymnasium Parking Lot. (Joint use
park area leased from Dakota Wesleyan University for 25 years. Lease commencing
January 1, 1981, and ending December 31, 2006.)
Doty Park: Block 17, F.M. Greene's Addition to the city of Mitchell, Davison
County, South Dakota.
Dry Run Creek Parkland: Lot B of outlot 28, lot B of outlot 27 and the
unplatted portion of Railroad Addition lying north of lots 80, 81 and 43 of
Overlook Addition, outlot 26, outlot 25, outlot 24 (including lot 1, sublot 1,
sublot 2, sublot A and irregular tract 1, all within said outlot 24), block 23,
lots 1, 2 and 3 of block 16, block 15, lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of
block 14, block 1, block 2, block 3 (except lots 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 thereof),
block 4 (except lot 8 thereof and except the south one hundred feet (100') of
lots A, B and C thereof), all of the entire foregoing being within Railroad
addition of the city of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
Firesteel Park Area: Being that part of government lot 3 in the northeast
quarter of the northwest quarter of section 5, township 103 north, range 60,
west of the 5th P.M., in Davison County, South Dakota, lying west of South
Harmon Drive, and that part of government lot 4 in the northwest quarter of the
northwest quarter of section 5, township 103 north, range 60, west of the 5th
P.M. in Davison County, South Dakota, lying east of South Harmon Drive, and
that part of the southwest quarter of section 32, township 104 north, range 60,
west of the 5th P.M. lying south of South Harmon drive, all of which is
commonly referred to as the fifty five acre tree farm.
Gainer Park: Block 93, Lawler second addition to the city of Mitchell, Davison
County, South Dakota.
Hitchcock Park: The northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section 22,
township 103 north, range 60, west of the 5th P.M., Davison County, South
Dakota, except that portion thereof contained within Driving Park addition to
the city of Mitchell, and except the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul railroad
right of way.
Indianhead Park: Indianhead 3rd addition as indicated in plot book 11, page 70.
Jennewein Park: Park no. 5 according the recorded plat of University addition
to the city of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
Kibbee Park: Lots K, W and C of Bayside subdivision to Lake Mitchell, according
to the replat thereof dated March 27, 1975, and lot K-1, and all that part of
the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
section 10, township 103 north, range 60, west of the 5th P.M., lying west
highway 37, Davison County, South Dakota.
Kiwanis Woodlot Area: All that property in the southeast quarter of the
southeast quarter of section 9, township 103 north, range 60, west of the 5th
P.M., lying between West 26th Street and Lake Mitchell.
Lake Mitchell Campground Area: The northeast quarter of the southeast quarter
of section 9, adjacent to Lake Mitchell, and that property in the northeast
quarter of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section 9, all in
township 103 north, range 60, west of the 5th P.M., adjacent to Lake Mitchell,
and that portion of Lot 10A in the southwest quarter of section 10, township
103 north, range 60, west of the 5th P.M., lying south of Lake Mitchell,
Davison County, South Dakota.
Lakeview Municipal Golf Course: The northeast quarter of the southwest quarter
of section 9, and the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of section 9,
and the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of section 9, and the
southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of section
9, south of Indian Village Road and excluding therefrom any part thereof which
lies within two hundred feet (200') of Indian Village Road, all in township 103
north, range sixty, west of the 5th P.M., Davison County, South Dakota.
Mitchell Activity Center (Ice Arena): East four hundred thirty nine feet (439')
of north one thousand feet (1,000') exc north six hundred ninety feet (690') of
outlot A-1, southwest quarter of section 16, township 103 north, range 60, west
of the 5th P.M.
Mitchell Recreation Center: Lots E-2 and A-2 Hoven and Rogers addition to the
city.
Municipal Bathing Beach: Lots 25 through 31, Bayside subdivision to Lake
Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
Munroe Park: Block 32, Capital addition to the city of Mitchell, Davison
County, South Dakota.
Northridge Park: Lot E in the southwest quarter of section 15, township 103
north, range 60 west of the 5th P.M., lot 18, block 1, Northridge addition to
the city of Mitchell, lot V and lot X-1 and that portion of lot D lying north
of 11th Street, all in the south half of the southeast quarter of section 15,
township 103 north, range 60, west of the 5th P.M. Davison County, South
Dakota.
Patton Young Park: Outlot 1 in the southwest quarter of section 21, township
103 north, range 60, west of the 5th P.M., Davison County, South Dakota.
Pioneer Park: Lot 8, according to the original plat of University addition to
the city of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
Redstone Area: hat area in the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of
section 4, township 103 north, range 60, west of the 5th P.M., and lying
between lot 48 of Bayside subdivision and lot 1 of Sunset Point subdivision,
and lying west of North Harmon Drive, Davison County, South Dakota.
Sandy Beach Area: Irregular tract no. 1 in the south half of section 32,
township 104 north, range 60, west of the 5th P.M., Davison County, South
Dakota.
University Addition: Lots 12, 13 and 14, block 34 to the city of Mitchell,
Davison County, South Dakota.
West Point Area: That portion of government lot 4 in the northwest quarter of
the northwest quarter of section 5, township 103 north, range 60, west of the
5th P.M., lying between West Harmon Drive and Lake Mitchell, and that portion
of the southwest quarter of section 32, township 104 north, range 60, west of
the 5th P.M., lying between West Harmon Drive and Lake Mitchell. (1984 Code §
26-2; amd. 2005 Code)
8-3-3: PARKWAYS ESTABLISHED:
The following listed parkways, heretofore established, are designated and
established as parkways at respective places according to the plats of certain
additions to the city, as such plats now appear of record in the office of the
register of deeds of the county:
Court Merrill Parkway: Being in the center of that portion of Court Merrill
abutting on lots A, B and C of block 3, and lots 3, 4, 5 and 6 of block 4 and
lots 7, 8 and 9 of block 12, all in University addition, the width of the
roadway on each side of such parkway being established at twenty feet (20') and
the width of such parkway being established at eighty feet (80') at the point
where Mylan Avenue intersects said Court Merrill.
Mylan Avenue Parkway: Being in the center of Mylan Avenue from Court Merrill to
South Sanborn Boulevard, the width of the roadway on either side of such
parkway being established at twenty feet (20').
Parkway No. 1: Being designated on the plat of University addition as "Park No.
1".
Parkway No. 2: Being designated on the plat of University addition as "Park No.
2".
Parkway No. 3: Being designated on the plat of University addition as "Park No.
3".
Parkway No. 4: Being designated on the plat of University addition as "Park No.
4".
Parkway No. 9: Being designated on the plat of University addition as "Park No.
9". (1984 Code § 26-3)
8-3-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Athletic Events:
      1.   Restricted To Designated Areas: No person shall play at any game of
baseball, tennis, football, croquet or other game likely to cause damage to
lawn or surroundings in any park unless such game is played on portions of such
park especially provided and designated for such purpose. (1984 Code § 26-13)
      2.   Scheduling Of Athletic Events: No softball, baseball or other
athletic tournament shall be held upon park property unless the same shall
first be scheduled through the Park and Recreation Office. No such tournament
shall be conducted in such manner as to constitute a violation of any provision
of this Code or other City or State law. (1984 Code § 26-4)
   B.   Concessions:
      1.   Liquor: A permit or license is required by the Governing Body of the
City for any organization or association to sell any alcoholic beverage in any
park.
      2.   Concessions: No person shall sell or offer for sale any article or
operate any concession without first securing a written permit from the Park
and Recreation Board, which shall have the power to fix and collect fees for
such permits. (1984 Code §§ 26-5, 26-23)
   C.   Traffic Regulations:
      1.   Traffic Laws Apply: All provisions of this Code or other ordinances
governing travel or traffic upon public streets shall be applicable within all
parks. (1984 Code § 26-6)
      2.   Vehicles And Horses To Remain On Roadways: No person may operate any
motor vehicle or ride any horse in any park or upon any City property, except
upon drives and roadways specified for such purposes. A bicycle as defined in
section
7-8-1 of this Code is not considered a motor vehicle for the purposes of this
subsection. (Ord. O2019-03, 4-15-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
      3.   Certain Vehicles Restricted: The Park and Recreation Board shall
have power, whenever it may deem it necessary for safety of the public, to
exclude certain classes of vehicles from any park or from any portion thereof
or to provide that traffic shall move only in one direction. In such cases, the
board shall cause notices to be posted in conspicuous places in such park or
roadways thereof, which notices shall specify such regulation of the board
concerning such traffic. (1984 Code § 26-6)
   D.   Closing Hours: No person shall be or remain in nor leave any vehicle in
any park or parkway, including the public beach, between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and daylight the following morning.
   E.   Additional Rules And Regulations: The Park and Recreation Board may
further regulate the use of the public parks and parkways and the public
beaches; and such other regulations, when posted in a conspicuous place upon
the property, shall be deemed enforceable pursuant to this chapter. Any
violation thereof shall constitute violation pursuant to this chapter. (Ord.
1703, 9-16-1991)
8-3-5: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Depositing Litter In Parks: No person shall deposit or leave any
litter, bottles, rubbish or garbage in any park, except in containers provided
for such purposes. (1984 Code § 26-7)
   B.   Glass Beverage Containers: No person shall have under his possession or
control any glass beverage container or bottle in any public park or park areas
in the City. The Park and Recreation Department shall cause each of said areas
to be posted with signs in such places and in a manner to give reasonable
notice to the public of the provisions of this subsection. (1984 Code § 26-8)
   C.   Dogs Leashed: All dogs shall be leashed and attended at all times in
any park area, unless in a designated posted leash free park area as designated
by the Park and Recreation Board of the City of Mitchell 1 . (Ord. 2396, 3-19-
2012)
   D.   Injuring Trees Or Plants: No person may pluck, destroy, cut, deface,
break, trample upon, remove, or interfere with the growth of any tree, shrub,
or flower in any park or parkway, unless the Parks and Recreation Director has
approved such action in writing prior to its occurrence. (Ord. O2019-04, 4-15-
2019)
   E.   Injuring Property: No person shall deface, mar, injure, break or tamper
with any water connection, hydrant, building or other improvement in any park
or parkway 2 . (1984 Code § 26-11)
   F.   Posting Bills Prohibited 3 : (Rep. by Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
   G.   Camping In Parks: No person shall park or camp any motor vehicle driven
camper or recreational vehicle or pull type camper or travel trailer overnight
on any City park or City owned property at Lake Mitchell, including the
designated beaches, boat ramps, parks and public access areas, without prior
written permission from the Director of Park and Recreation. (Ord. 1600, 7-5-
1988)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-1-3 of this Code.
2 1. See section
  6-3-2 of this Code.
3 2. See title 9, chapter 4 of this Code.
8-3-6: AREAS DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE:
The following real property currently owned by the City of Mitchell be
permanently dedicated for public use as parks, nature trails, biking trails,
hiking trails and similar uses, and be preserved to serve as a buffer for
surface waters draining into Lake Mitchell:
   A.   Lot One (1) of North Harmon First Addition, a Subdivision of Government
Lot Four (4) and the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/
4), all in Section Four (4), Township One Hundred Three (103) North, Range
Sixty (60), West of the 5th P.M., Davison County, South Dakota.
   B.   That part of the North Half of the Northwest Quarter (N 1/2 NW 1/4)
Section Five (5), Township One Hundred Three (103) North, Range Sixty (60) West
of the 5th P.M., Davison County, South Dakota, lying south and west of South
Harmon Drive, and belonging to the City of Mitchell.
   C.   All City owned property comprising or abutting the shoreline of Lake
Mitchell. (Initiative Petition approved 11-2-2010)
8-3-7: AREAS NO LONGER DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC USE:
Notwithstanding any other section of this code, the change of use of the real
properties listed in this section, which are currently owned, held, or
otherwise used by the City of Mitchell for parks, parkways, boulevards, public
libraries, museums, or art galleries, is hereby authorized pursuant to an
affirmative majority vote of the voters of Mitchell, South Dakota, and such
real properties listed herein may be used for other purposes or transferred
freely by the City of Mitchell as if such real properties had never been owned,
held, or otherwise used by the City of Mitchell for parks, parkways,
boulevards, public libraries, museums, or art galleries:
   A.   Lots 35 and 35A, Sunset Point Subdivision, Lake Mitchell Development
Plan, City of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
   B.   Lots 31, 31A, 32, and 32A, Sunset Point Subdivision, Lake Mitchell
Development Plan, City of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
   C.   Lots 22 and 22A, Sunset Point Subdivision, Lake Mitchell Development
Plan, City of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
   D.   Lots 11, 12, and the East half (1/2) of Lot 13, Sunset Point
Subdivision, Lake Mitchell Development Plan, City of Mitchell, Davison County,
South Dakota.
   E.   Lots 27, 27A, 28, and 28A, Indian Head Subdivision, Lake Mitchell
Development Plan, City of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
   F.   Lots 58, 58-A, and 59, Indian Head Subdivision, Lake Mitchell
Development Plan, City of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
   G.   Lots 80 and 81, except Lot 81-A, Indian Head Subdivision, Lake Mitchell
Development Plan, City of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
   H.   Lots 99 and 100-A, Indian Head Subdivision, Lake Mitchell Development
Plan, City of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota. (Ord., 3-28-2023)
CHAPTER 4
LAKE MITCHELL
SECTION:
8-4-1: Swimming And Floating Regulations
8-4-2: Boating Regulations
8-4-3: Approach Intake Tower
8-4-1: SWIMMING AND FLOATING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Any and all persons swimming, wading or floating on any type of raft,
air mattress, innertube or floatation device, whatsoever, must stay within one
hundred feet (100') of the shoreline. This section shall not apply to any
person water skiing upon the lake.
   B.   No person shall swim, wade or in any way float on any floatation
device, innertube, air mattress or raft of any type in the bay area lying
within the east boat ramp area, as the same is defined in section
8-3-2 of this title (commonly known as the old boat ramp area), or within fifty
feet (50') of either side of the west boat ramp, as defined in section
8-3-2 of this title (commonly known as the new boat ramp area), upon Lake
Mitchell. (1984 Code § 18A-3)
8-4-2: BOATING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Speed Limits:
      1.   No boat of whatever size operated upon Lake Mitchell shall exceed a
speed at any time or any place of more than forty (40) miles per hour unless
special permission has been granted by the city council for organized and
approved boating exhibitions or events.
      2.   All boats operated upon Lake Mitchell must reduce their speed to not
in excess of five (5) miles per hour when operating within one hundred feet
(100') of the shoreline or within fifty feet (50') of any other boat.
      3.   No person shall operate any boat or vehicle of any nature upon the
Lake Mitchell at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing, nor shall he operate at a speed greater than the
posted limits upon any area within Lake Mitchell. (1984 Code § 18A-1)
   B.   Exhibition Boating Prohibited: No person shall drive or operate any
boat or other vehicle of whatever nature upon Lake Mitchell in such a manner
that it creates or causes unnecessary engine noise, swing or sway upon
acceleration or stopping or that simulates a temporary race or that causes the
boat or vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway. (1984 Code § 18A-2)
   C.   No Wake During High Water: During any time at which the water level in
Lake Mitchell reaches the height of twelve inches (12") or more over the level
of the top of the spillway, no person shall operate any boat or watercraft upon
the surface of Lake Mitchell at such speed or in such manner as shall cause or
create a wake. This regulation, once in effect because of the high water level,
shall remain in effect until such time as the water level of the lake drops to
the level of six inches (6") over the level of the top of the spillway. (Ord.
1749, 9-20-1993)
8-4-3: APPROACH INTAKE TOWER:
No person, other than officers or employees of the city acting in pursuit of
duty, shall approach nearer than one hundred feet (100') from the intake tower
of the water system of the city, now located in Lake Mitchell, for any purpose
or by any means whatsoever. (1984 Code § 18A-4)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
8-5-1: Library Established
8-5-2: Library Board Of Trustees
8-5-1: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
The Mitchell public library heretofore established in the city as a free public
library is hereby continued as such. (1984 Code § 19-1)
8-5-2: LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The Mitchell public library shall be in the charge of a board of five (5)
trustees who shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council
as provided by statute 1 . Their duties shall be as provided by statute. (1984
Code § 19-2)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 9-12-15.
CHAPTER 6
CEMETERIES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Cemeteries Established
8-6-2: Graceland Cemetery
8-6-1: CEMETERIES ESTABLISHED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, maintain, create or operate
any cemetery within the city or within one mile thereof or upon any public
grounds, airport or park belonging to the city or within one mile of such
public ground, airport or park without first having procured the approval and
consent of the city council. Notice of the hearing for approval and consent
shall be given by the city council by publication one week prior thereto in the
official newspaper for the city. No such consent and approval or application
therefor shall be required for any cemetery which has been in continuous
operation as a cemetery for five (5) or more consecutive years. (1984 Code § 8-
1)
8-6-2: GRACELAND CEMETERY:
   A.   Cemetery Established 1 : Graceland cemetery, heretofore established by
the city in the southeast quarter of section 9, township 103 and range 60 in
Davison County, South Dakota, as shown by the records in the office of the
register of deeds of the county, shall continue to be maintained and regulated
as provided in this section. (1984 Code § 8-2; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Records: The finance officer shall keep, in his office, an interment
record showing all facts shown by the monthly report of the public works
department and shall also keep a deed record showing the sale and ownership of
all burial lots and such other records and books of account as may be required
by resolution of the city council. (1984 Code § 8-5)
   C.   Public Burial Ground: The north half of block 1 of the cemetery and
such other spaces within said cemetery as shall be designated by the city
council shall continue to be used for the burial of those persons for the
burial of whom no other place has been provided and shall be and remain a
public burying ground. The graves therein shall be dug and numbered by the
public works department in consecutive order, beginning at the north line of
the north lot of the burying ground, thence running south, and the public works
department shall erect and maintain at each of such graves a marker whereon
shall be cut the number thereof and the name of the person buried therein.
Whenever any burial has been made on any lot in the ground, no burial shall be
made on any other lot thereof until such first lot is full. (1984 Code § 8-6)
   D.   Plats And Sales Of Lots:
      1.   Established Plats: The plats of Graceland cemetery appearing of
record in the office of the register of deeds of the county are hereby
recognized as the established plats of the cemetery.
      2.   Sale Of Lots: The price at which lots in the cemetery shall be sold
and conditions on which lots in the cemetery shall be sold and conditions on
which such sales may be made shall continue to be fixed by the city council.
(1984 Code § 8-7)
   E.   Graves And Mausoleums:
      1.   All graves shall be at least six feet (6') deep, except that
mausoleums may be constructed aboveground in an area designated by the city
council by resolution, and provided that said mausoleums meet the following
minimum specifications:
         a.   Walls: Walls shall be a minimum of four inches (4") thick with
the outside walls to be granite only and inside walls to be either granite or
concrete.
         b.   Roofs: Roofs shall be granite only and, if not one piece, shall
have a lap between sections of at least six inches (6").
         c.   Foundation: Foundations shall be approved by the building
official of the city.
         d.   Windows And Doors: Any glass or stained glass windows shall be
protected by tempered glass at least one inch (1") thick and shall be fitted in
a bronze frame, which is solidly anchored into the granite wall. All doors
shall be heavy bronze, and any door or windows shall be of lexan glass or
similar material only and not of plate glass. (1984 Code § 8-8)
      2.   Surface Of Graves: The surface of all graves shall be maintained on
a level with the surrounding area sufficient to permit mowing over graves.
(1984 Code § 8-9)
   F.   Monuments:
      1.   Construction Of Monument Foundations: The foundations of all
monuments erected in the cemetery shall extend below the frost line and be
solidly constructed of stone or cement. (1984 Code § 8-10)
      2.   Number Of Monuments And Markers Per Lot: No more than one central
monument shall be erected on any lot, and no more than one marker shall be
placed on each grave. (1984 Code § 8-11)
   G.   Public Access To Cemetery; Hours: The cemetery and all its grounds
shall be closed to all vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic each day from ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following morning. Easter
Sunday and the following Monday morning and Christmas Eve and Christmas morning
shall be excepted from the foregoing access restriction. Any person found
within the boundaries of the cemetery grounds or upon any roadway within the
cemetery, except persons specifically authorized by the director of public
works, shall be deemed in violation of this subsection and, upon arrest and
conviction thereof, shall be subject to fine as provided in the general penalty
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1635, 5-15-1989; amd. 2005 Code)
   H.   Prohibited And Restricted Acts And Conditions:
      1.   Fences; Planting Trees And Shrubs: No fence or coping shall be
erected on or around any lot in the cemetery nor shall any tree or shrub be
planted therein without the consent of the city council. (1984 Code § 8-12)
      2.   Children Under Fourteen: No child under fourteen (14) years of age
shall be allowed to enter the cemetery unless accompanied by some person of
discretion having such child then in charge, and such person shall be
responsible for the conduct and acts of such child while therein. (1984 Code §
8-13)
      3.   Injuring Property; Placing Signs: No person shall break, pluck or
otherwise injure any wild or cultivated plant or break or otherwise injure any
tree or shrub or deface or mar any monument or make any mark thereon by writing
or otherwise or injure any landmark or otherwise injure the cemetery or any
part thereof or deface or injure any part of the fence around or upon the
cemetery or paint or otherwise put up any sign upon any part of any fence
around or upon the cemetery. (1984 Code § 8-14)
      4.   Dogs At Large: No person having custody of any dog shall permit such
animal to run at large in the cemetery 1 . (1984 Code § 8-15) (amd. Ord. O2022-
09, 6-21-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 9-32-13 et seq.
1 1. See section
  6-1-3 of this code.
CHAPTER 7
CORN PALACE AUDITORIUM
SECTION:
8-7-1: Management And Control
8-7-2: Operating Fund
8-7-1: MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL 1 :
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and title 3, chapter 9 of this
code, the control, management and operation of the Corn Palace auditorium shall
remain directly with the city council. (1984 Code § 9-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 4-2-7 of this code for Corn Palace liquor licenses.
8-7-2: OPERATING FUND:
   A.   Fund Established: That certain fund, heretofore authorized by
resolution, is continued and shall be known as the Corn Palace operating fund.
Such fund shall be used exclusively by the Corn Palace entertainment board 1
as working capital and to absorb any deficit which may result from the
operations as herein authorized. (1984 Code § 9-6; amd. Ord. 2487, 10-20-2014)
   B.   Fiscal Year: The fiscal year of the board shall end on November 30 of
each year, at which time, the board shall transfer to the Corn Palace operating
fund from the net income then on hand, such amount as may be necessary, if
available, to replace any deficit which may have resulted from operations
during such fiscal year and to maintain the fund in such amount as the city
council may, by resolution, be determined.
   C.   Annual Report: On January 1 of each year, the board shall file with the
finance officer an itemized annual report covering the last fiscal year and
showing all receipts and all disbursements, including any amount transferred to
the Corn Palace operating fund as above provided, and showing the balance on
hand at the close of the year, which balance shall be paid to the finance
officer who shall first place such amount thereof as may be fixed by resolution
of the city council, or so much thereof as may be available, in the general
fund as an offset against current expenses of operating and maintaining the
auditorium, and any balance shall be placed by the finance officer in a special
fund to be known as the Corn Palace reserve fund. Such annual report shall be
presented to the city council at the first regular meeting in January of each
year.
   D.   Disbursement Of Revenue:
      1.   All revenues derived through Corn Palace activities shall be
receipted into the appropriate fund by the finance officer and all
disbursements shall be by warrant authorized by the Corn Palace committee.
      2.   No debt shall be incurred by the board without the approval of a
majority of the board members of a regular or special meeting, and all
disbursements shall be made by check to be signed by the secretary and
treasurer of the board. (1984 Code § 9-6)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 3, chapter 9 of this code.
CHAPTER 8
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-8-1: Authority To Regulate
8-8-2: Water Division
8-8-3: Application Of Provisions
8-8-4: Connection To City Water System
8-8-5: Construction Regulations
8-8-6: Curb Stops And Service Boxes
8-8-7: Water Meters
8-8-8: Application For Water Service
8-8-9: Rates And Charges
8-8-10: Water Conservation Measures
8-8-11: Maintenance Of System
8-8-12: Cross Connections
8-8-13: Prohibited Acts
8-8-14: Enforcement
8-8-15: Violations And Penalties
8-8-1: AUTHORITY TO REGULATE 1 :
   A.   The city council shall have authority to regulate the distribution and
use of water supplied by the city and shall have the authority to permit a
reasonable use of water in any case necessary to maintain adequate health and
sanitation standards. (1984 Code §§ 38-35, 38-37)
   B.   The city council may, by resolution, prohibit the sale of water to any
persons or parties, which water is not for use within the city. (1984 Code §
38-39)
   C.   All fees and charges for use and connection to the water system of the
city shall be as established from time to time by resolution of the city
council. (2005 Code)
   D.   Any resolution passed pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to be an
emergency resolution. (1984 Code § 38-40)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL §§ 9-32-8, 9-47-1.
8-8-2: WATER DIVISION:
   A.   Division Of Department Of Public Works: The water division is a
division of the public works department and shall be administered by said
department. There shall be a superintendent of water within this division.
(1984 Code § 38-1; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Authority Of Officers And Employees: The officers and employees of the
water division of the public works department shall have power to enter the
premises or buildings of consumers at any reasonable hour for the purpose of
reading, removing, installing, testing or repairing meters or for examining
piping. Such official or employee shall have power to shut the water off from
any premises for nonpayment of water bills, to enforce repair of service
between water main and meter, to prevent waste of water or to shut the water
off from any main for the purpose of repairs or improvements. If necessary to
dig up or repair to corporation cock or curb cock to shut off water, the cost
of such labor and materials required may be added to the water bill for such
premises and considered part of the same. (1984 Code § 38-4)
   C.   Records Kept: Proper cost accounting and operation records shall be
maintained by the director of public works in such manner as to be readily
accessible to the city council. Records of plant operation shall show all
pertinent data relating to pumpage and chemical treatment from day to day and
shall also be consolidated into figures of operation by calendar month. Proper
records of all water meters shall be maintained showing tests and repairs made,
date of purchase, where installed and similar pertinent data. (1984 Code § 38-
6)
   D.   Annual Reports: As soon as practicable after the end of a calendar
year, an annual report shall be prepared by the director of public works and
filed with finance officer. Such report shall cover both operational data and
financial data pertinent to the previous calendar year's operation of the water
division. The report shall be accompanied by a detailed inventory of all water
department property (1984 Code § 38-7)
   E.   Water Enterprise Fund: A fund to be known as the water enterprise fund
shall be established for accounting purposes within the general fund of the
city. All money and credits collected under this chapter, including fines and
fees for violations of the same, shall be credited to the water enterprise
fund. (Ord. 1496, 3-5-1984)
8-8-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all persons using water
regardless of whether any person shall have a contract for water service with
the city. (1984 Code § 38-41)
8-8-4: CONNECTION TO CITY WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Permit To Tap Water Mains:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall tap any water main without first
securing a permit therefor, the cost of which shall be as established by the
director of public works with the approval of the city council.
      2.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon exhibition of the finance officer's receipt
for the proper fee, the director of public works shall issue the permit to tap
the water main, which tap shall be made only by competent public works
employees. The service shall be installed by and under the direction of a
licensed master plumber. Tapping permits shall be signed by the owner or his
agent and shall carry the name of the licensed plumber authorized to make the
installation of the service.
   B.   Cost Of Connection Supplies: The cost of pipe, curbs top, stop box and
all other water service appurtenances, including the cost of cutting and
repavement, shall be paid by the owner and shall not be included in the fee
paid for tap permit. The city shall furnish and install the necessary
corporation cock with the cost thereof to be charged to the owner as part of
the tapping fee. (1984 Code § 38-9)
   C.   Authorized Person To Perform Work; Restrictions:
      1.   Persons Authorized: No person, except a licensed plumber or public
works employee, shall connect with the city water mains or shall perform any
work upon any pipes or fixtures connected with such service. Such plumber shall
comply with all ordinances, rules or regulations that now or may hereafter be
adopted by the city. (1984 Code § 38-15)
      2.   Plumber's Restrictions:
         a.   No plumber shall commence work of any kind mentioned in
subsection C1 hereof until a permit for such service has been secured. (1984
Code §38-16; amd. 2005 Code)
         b.   Upon completion of the test of a new service, the plumber shall
turn the water off at the curb stop and shall not again turn it on.
         c.   In case of leaks or other accidents to pipes or apparatus
connected with the city water mains, the plumber may shut off the water to make
the necessary repairs.
         d.   In all cases, a plumber shall have the water shut off or turned
on as he found it to be when he commenced work on the service or premises,
except that the corporation cock on approved new or repaired services shall be
left open.
         e.   No plumber or other person shall extend water pipes from one
premises to another without permission from the director of public works. (1984
Code § 38-16)
   D.   Required Connections:
      1.   Connections Required: Whenever the city council shall deem it
necessary to construct water service connections from the water main to behind
the curb line in any streets or alleys, a resolution shall be passed by the
city council requiring the property owners, whose property has not been
connected with the water main, to construct such connecting service lines from
the water main to behind the curb line in the streets or alleys, within the
time specified, not less than thirty (30) days from the passage of the
resolution.
      2.   Notice To Owners: The resolution shall contain a notice to the
owners stating that work is to be done and the time within which they are
required to do it. Such notice may be general as to owners, but must be
specific as to the description of the lots or parcels of ground in front of
which such property connections are to be constructed. (1984 Code § 38-26)
      3.   City's Right To Have Work Done At Owner's Cost:
         a.   If such water connections are not built, laid and constructed in
the manner and within the time prescribed in said resolution, the city council
may order the same to be done by such person as it may contract with and under
the direction of the director of public works, at the expense of the lots and
parcels of land adjoining in front of and for the benefit of which said water
connections have been laid, built and constructed. Such expense shall be
assessed on said lots and parcels of land, so changeable, by the director of
public works and approved by the city council, and in accordance with South
Dakota Codified Laws chapter 9-47-1 and all amendments thereto.
         b.   Payment shall be due and payable after the filing of the
assessment roll with the finance officer and shall be collected in the same
manner as other special assessments are now collected as provided by law.
         c.   All steps taken for the charge of the property affected in the
collecting of such assessment and the selling of such property in default of
payment of such assessments shall be done and performed in the same manner as
all other special assessments for local improvements as are now collected by
the city. (1984 Code § 38-27)
   E.   Disconnection Of Abandoned Services: Upon abandoning any water service,
the water line shall be disconnected at the main. The property owner shall be
required to engage a licensed plumber to perform the work in a manner
satisfactory to the director of public works. (1984 Code § 38-29)
8-8-5: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Service Pipe And Distribution System Installation: A service pipe shall
be considered the water line extending from a water main to a meter. Fire lines
not connected to a meter shall be considered a service pipe extending from the
water main to a building wall. (Ord. 1610, 11-7-1988)
All underground water distribution systems shall be constructed in accordance
with state statute and the uniform plumbing code. (1984 Code § 38-30; amd. 2005
Code)
      1.   Pipe Size: The minimum size water service line shall be one inch
(1"). However, in repair work if only a portion of the existing service needs
replacing, the existing size may be continued. (Ord. 1610, 11-7-1988)
      2.   Coverage Of Pipes: Minimal cover for underground piping shall be six
feet (6'). (1984 Code § 38-30)
      3.   Types Of Pipe: Only copper pipe shall be used for any size service
line through two inch (2") pipe within the street right of way. If any existing
noncopper service line is repaired or replaced within the street right or way,
that portion replaced within the street right of way, that portion between the
water main and the curb stop or six feet (6') from the property line, whichever
is farthest, shall be repaired or replaced with copper pipe. For sizes over two
inches (2") only copper, ductile iron or polyvinylchloride pipe shall be used.
         a.   Copper pipe shall be type K or type L meeting the requirements of
ASTM B88. Copper water service pipe shall be installed with flared type joints.
         b.   Ductile iron pipe shall comply with the requirements of the AWWA
C151. For sizes through four inch (4"), the pipe shall be class 51. For sizes
over four inch (4"), the pipe shall be class 50. That portion of a ductile iron
pipe service line within a street right of way shall be wrapped with minimum
eight mill polyethylene sheeting meeting the requirements of AWWA C105.
         c.   Polyvinylchloride (PVC) pipe shall conform to the AWWA standard
C900 and shall be class 150, SDR-18, minimum, with integral bell and spigot
joints.
      4.   Pipe Installation Requirements:
         a.   That portion of a water service line within the street right of
way shall be installed perpendicular to the street center line. No water
service line shall be extended parallel or nearly parallel to the street within
the right of way. (Ord. 1610, 11-7-1988)
         b.   Temporary or permanent piping materials from meter pits to
uninhabited areas or structures, including commercial and industrial
applications, shall be selected and buried in accordance with good acceptable
design practice for the installation under consideration.
         c.   All such installations shall be protected by a suitable vacuum
breaker to be installed at the meter outlet and sized in accordance with the
branch line leading to the meter. (1984 Code § 38-30)
   B.   Trenches:
      1.   All trenches must be at least six feet (6') below the ground surface
and the low point of the street gutter. No trench, whether dug for a new
service or repairs, shall be filled until the service has been accepted by the
director of public works. (1984 Code § 38-11; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   All trenches shall be guarded and refilled in the manner provided by
Chapter 1, article B of this title. (1984 Code §§ 38-11, 38-29)
      3.   All trenches shall be guarded and refilled in the manner provided by
this code or other ordinance. (1984 Code § 38-11)
   C.   Separate Service Pipes For Each Meter: Each meter shall be provided
with a separate service pipe from the water main to the meter; provided, that
when two (2) meters are now on one service, such service may be continued until
separate service and cut off are ordered by the director of public works. The
director may, at any time, on two (2) weeks' notice, shut off such service and
discontinue same until a separate service is provided for each meter. (1984
Code § 38-12)
8-8-6: CURB STOPS AND SERVICE BOXES:
   A.   Curb Stops: Each service shall be provided with a curb stop at the
outside edge of the sidewalk. Such curb stop shall be provided with round way
inverted key with "T" head of uniform size malleable iron galvanized up to and
including one and one-quarter inches (11/4") in diameter. The inverted key of
said curb stop shall be protected by a close fitting sand cap. Said curb stop
shall be of red brass with Minneapolis threaded top to screw into the bottom of
an iron casing or service box. A small vertical channel shall be provided
through the threaded top of said curb stop to permit drainage of water
accumulating in the box. Said curb stop shall be tested one hundred (100)
pounds hydraulic pressure.
   B.   Service Boxes: An iron service box known as "Minneapolis Pattern" shall
be placed over each curb stop. The top of such service to be placed on grade
with the sidewalk. Each service pipe shall be provided with a suitable gate
valve or suitable meter stop which shall be placed in the basement or below the
action of the frost. (1984 Code § 38-13)
8-8-7: WATER METERS:
   A.   Size Of Meters; Responsibility For Installation: The minimum size of
water meters shall be as follows:
   Size Of Water Service   Minimum Meter Size
   1 inch               3/4 inch
   11/2 inch            1 inch
   2 inch               11/2 inch
   2 inch - special use         2 inch
   3 inch               2 inch compound
   4 inch               3 inch compound
   6 inch               4 inch compound
   8 inch               6 inch compound
The water division shall furnish meters up to and including two inch (2")
standard, and the applicant shall pay for all larger meters. Large meters shall
be of a type approved by the director of public works. The applicant shall
provide such opening in connection in his service as may be required by the
director for the installation of a meter. (1984 Code § 38-22; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Location And Installation Of Meters: Meters shall be placed in the
basement or cellar and within two feet (2') of the wall where such service
enters the building, except that the director of public works may permit the
locating of the meter at another place when, in his opinion, such meter will be
safe from frost and other destructive conditions. The unobstructed place for a
meter setting shall be twelve inches (12") on each side of the meter and thirty
six inches (36") above the top of the meter. The director of public works may
permit meters to be installed in meter boxes outside of the basements or
cellars. Such meter boxes shall be constructed of brick, stone, concrete or
cast iron and shall be of a design approved by the director of public works.
   C.   Check Valves: A check valve shall be placed between the meter and any
hot water or steam pipe line or connection with boiler or heater. (1984 Code §
38-22)
   D.   Testing Meters: Meters may be tested at any time by the water division.
Requests for tests of a meter shall be made not to exceed once each year
without charge. Should a consumer wish additional tests, a deposit as
established from time to time by resolution of the city council shall be made
by the consumer, which deposit shall be retained by the water division if the
meter is found not to exceed two percent (2%) fast and returned together with a
proportionate refund of the cost if in excess of two percent (2%) fast. (1984
Code § 38-24; amd. 2005 Code)
8-8-8: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Procedure To Have Water Turned On:
      1.   After the installation of a new water service, the owner or occupant
desiring to use the city water shall make application to the finance officer
for such service and make the required advance minimum payment on the water.
Similar procedure shall be followed in requesting a turn on after service has
been discontinued. The finance officer shall authorize the service personnel of
the water division to make the necessary turn on. (1984 Code § 38-18)
      2.   No application for municipal water service shall be accepted by the
finance officer unless the same shall be signed by a person having an ownership
interest in the premises sought to be served by municipal water service.
      3.   All persons who sign an application for water service shall be
jointly and severally liable to the city for payment for water service provided
pursuant to any such water service application. (1984 Code § 38-19)
   B.   Notice To Discontinue Service; Change Of Tenants: Owners or occupants
wishing to discontinue the use of water shall be required to give notice
thereof to the finance officer, and regular rates shall be continued until such
notice is given. Owners shall give notice of change of tenants. (1984 Code §
38-20)
8-8-9: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates And Charges Established: For all users of the water system, the
water rate shall be established from time to time by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 2083, 5-19-2003)
   B.   Water For Public Use; Estimates: The water division shall be credited
for the amount of water used for public purposes. Those public usages which
cannot be metered will be arrived at by estimation. (1984 Code § 38-34)
   C.   Reading Meters; Rendition Of Bills: It shall be the duty of the
director of public works to cause all meters to be read and to cause water
bills to be rendered by mail. Requested reading and bills may be made at any
time. (1984 Code § 38-23)
   D.   Payment Of Bills; Delinquencies: Water bills for excess water used
during the preceding quarter and for minimum due in advance for the next
quarter shall become due on the first day of the following month after being
read, and if not paid by the twentieth of such month, the same shall become
delinquent, and the water service may be shut off as provided in subsection 8-
8-15B of this chapter. Failure to receive a bill shall not be an excuse for
nonpayment. (1984 Code § 38-33)
8-8-10: WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES:
   A.   Subordinate Water Uses: All water used for street, lawn or garden
sprinkling or for industrial purposes is declared to be subordinate to water
used for domestic purposes or fire protection and may be restricted by the
director of public works, at any time, should an emergency arise or a scarcity
of water or lack of facilities required. (1984 Code § 38-3)
   B.   Percentage Portion Upon Restricted Use:
      1.   All businesses and industries and any party to a contract with the
city using water shall be restricted to the use of a percentage portion of the
amount of water used by the business or industry during the corresponding month
of the year preceding the effective date hereof, which percentage shall be
provided by resolution and which percentage may be adjusted, from time to time,
as needs and requirements may be, by resolution of the city council.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to those
businesses and industries declared, by resolution of the city council, to be
necessary for the public health, safety and welfare.
      3.   Businesses and industries processing animal, vegetable and mineral
matter for food purposes shall be regulated in the use of water as provided by
resolution of the city council.
      4.   The water division shall have available and furnish all records
necessary to determine the usages of water restricted by this subsection. (1984
Code § 38-38)
   C.   Use Restrictions: Upon passage and publication of a resolution of the
city council providing therefor, the use and withdrawal of water by any person
for the following purposes is hereby prohibited:
      1.   Water Yards:
         a.   The sprinkling, watering or irrigating of lawns, as provided by
resolution.
         b.   The sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees,
grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, flowers or any other
vegetation, as provided in the resolution. (1984 Code § 38-36)
      2.   Washing Vehicles: The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers,
recreational vehicles or any other type of mobile equipment, except where
required by health and sanitary requirements. (1984 Code § 38-36; amd. 2005
Code)
      3.    Cleaning Outdoor Surfaces: The washing of sidewalks, driveways,
filling station aprons, porches and other outdoor surfaces.
      4.   Cleaning Buildings: The washing of the outside of dwellings; the
washing of the inside and outside of buildings. (1984 Code § 38-36)
8-8-11: MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM:
   A.   The public works department shall not be responsible for service pipes
or accessories nor for inferior pipe or fixtures. All owners, at their own
expense, must keep and maintain their service in good working order and
properly protected from frost and other injury. No claim shall be made against
the city for reason of the breaking of any service pipe or apparatus or for
damage that may result from variations of water pressure or shutting off water
for repair or other necessary purpose.
   B.   The owner shall be responsible for leaking pipes or fixtures, and no
reduction from regular water rates will be made because of such leaking pipes
or fixtures.
   C.   The owner or occupant of any premises connected with city water shall
keep all curb cocks and meters readily accessible and shall protect the same
and the meter from frost, from all other destructive agencies and from injury
or interference by any person. The owner or occupant shall notify the public
works department in case of leaks on service pipes or meter. The owner shall
pay the cost of repairing meters that have been damaged by frost or by his
carelessness or maliciousness, and there shall be an additional charge for
shutoff as required in section 8-8-17 of this chapter. (1984 Code § 38-14)
8-8-12: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No water piping systems supplied by any private water supply shall be connected
in any manner to the city water system, and any such existing connection will
be considered a violation of this section upon the effective date hereof. (1984
Code § 38-28)
8-8-13: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No person shall deface, damage, move, obstruct or interfere with any
fire or water hydrant, main or other property of the city. For violation of
this subsection, any person convicted thereof, in addition to other penalties
provided, shall be required to pay the cost of restoring and repairing the
property so damaged. (1984 Code § 38-8)
   B.   No person, except by permission of the public works department, shall
place, remove, repair or tamper with any water meter or shall open or connect
to, dig out or remove any hydrant, stop cock, valve box, water main or other
part of the waterworks system. (1984 Code § 38-17)
8-8-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Every police officer of the city, in connection with his duties imposed
by law, shall diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The director of public works shall have the authority to enforce the
provisions of this chapter by the discontinuance of water service in the event
of violation thereof. (1984 Code § 38-43)
8-8-15: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   No plumber, consumer or other person shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter. (1984 Code § 38-25)
   B.   The public works department may shut off the water to any premises when
the water rental shall have become delinquent or upon violation of any of the
rules and regulations of the department or of this chapter by the user or owner
of the premises served.
When water shall have been so shut off, it shall not be turned on again until
all arrears have been paid, together with an additional sum as provided from
time to time by resolution of the city council to cover the expense of shutting
off and turning on. (1984 Code § 38-21)
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as
provided herein. (1984 Code § 38-43; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 9
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-9-1: Definitions
8-9-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
8-9-3: Private Wastewater Disposal
8-9-4: Public Sewers And Sewer Service Connections
8-9-5: Conditions Of Use
8-9-6: Sewer Rates And Charges
8-9-7: Water Meters On Private Wells
8-9-8: Building Regulations
8-9-9: Inspections
8-9-10: Protection Of Property
8-9-11: Authority To Contract For Services
8-9-12: Hearing Board
8-9-13: Violations; Penalties
8-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following abbreviations,
terms and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated:
ABBREVIATIONS:
   OD   Biochemical oxygen demand
   CFR   Code of federal regulations
   EPA   U.S. environmental protection agency
   gpd   Gallons per day
   mg/l   Milligrams per liter
   NPDES   National pollutant discharge elimination system
   POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
   RCRA   Resource conservation and recovery act
   SIC   Standard industrial classification
   TSS   Total suspended solids
   USC   United States code
ACT OR THE ACT: The federal water pollution control act, also known as the
clean water act, as amended 1 .
APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the regional administrator of the United States
environmental protection agency in a NPDES state without an approved state
pretreatment program.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER:
   A.   If the user is a corporation:
      1. The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; or
      2. The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operation
facilities of any user, if authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
   B.   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, a general partner
or proprietor, respectively.
   C.   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility, a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
   D.   The individuals described in subsections A through C of this definition
may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in
writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for
the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the city.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD: The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), usually expressed as a
concentration (e.g., mg/l).
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the drainage from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the sewer service, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD: Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with
sections 307(b) and (c) of the act 2  which apply to a specific category of
users and which appear in 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405-471.
CITY: The city of Mitchell, South Dakota, or any authorized person acting in
its behalf.
CONNECTION: Each point where a properly issued permit has been granted and
sewer use charges paid for a building drain to be joined by the sewer service
to the POTW.
DAILY MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT: The average value of all grab samples
taken during any given calendar day. If only one grab sample has been taken,
that grab sample becomes the daily maximum (as well as the instantaneous
maximum - see definition below). If more than one grab sample is taken in a
given day, the daily maximum is the average of all the individual grab samples.
A composite sample, by definition, becomes the daily maximum for the calendar
day in which it is collected.
DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Waterborne wastes normally discharged into the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office
buildings, factories and institutions, free of storm and surface water and
industrial wastes.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OR EPA: The U.S. environmental protection
agency or, where appropriate, the regional water management division director,
or other duly authorized official of said agency.
EXISTING SOURCE: Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with section 307 of the act.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
GRAB SAMPLE: A sample which is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15)
minutes.
HEARING BOARD: The city council, provided however that the city council may
appoint the public works committee to serve as the hearing board.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE: The introduction of pollutants into the POTW from any
nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the act.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: Wastewater from indirect discharge of industrial processes,
trade, or business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
INDUSTRIAL USER OR USER: Any nondomestic source which introduces pollutants
into the POTW. A source of an indirect discharge.
INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT: The maximum concentration of a
pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of
any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of the industrial flow
rate and the duration of the sampling event.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the city's NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: section 405 of the act; the solid
waste disposal act, including title II commonly referred to as the resource
conservation and recovery act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the solid waste
disposal act; the clean air act; the toxic substances control act; and the
marine protection, research and sanctuaries act.
LOCAL LIMITS: Effluent discharge limits applicable to industrial users of the
city's POTW developed by the city in accordance with 40 CFR 403.5(c).
MAY: May is a permissive statement (see definition of Shall).
MEDICAL WASTE: Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
NPDES PERMIT: The national pollutant discharge elimination system permit held
by the city. This permit, which establishes limits on quality and quantity of
discharges from the POTW is issued by the federal and state governments in
accordance with the provisions of the clean water act.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
NEW SOURCE: A. Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is for may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
section 307(c) of the act which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided:
1) the building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a site
at which no other source is located; or 2) the building, structure, facility,
or installation totally replaces the process or production equipment that
causes the discharge of pollutants at an existing source; or 3) the production
or wastewater generating processes of the building, structure, facility, or
installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the same
site. Factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with
the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the
same general type of activity should be considered in determining whether these
are substantially independent.
   B.   Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has
commenced if the owner or operator has: 1) begun, or caused to begin, as part
of a continuous onsite construction program a) any placement, assembly or
installation of facilities or equipment; or b) significant site preparation
work including clearing, excavation or removal of existing buildings,
structures or facilities which is necessary for the placement, assembly or
installation of new source facilities or equipment; or 2) entered into a
binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities or equipment
which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time.
Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without
substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design
studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this subsection.
   C.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of
section 32-30.2(27)(1)(b) or (c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
NONCONTACT COOLING WATER: Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
NORMAL STRENGTH DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Domestic wastewater in which the average
concentration of BOD and TSS is established at not greater than 280 mg/l and
275 mg/l respectively, by weight.
PASS THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the city's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation.
pH: A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard
units.
POLLUTANT: Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, toxicity or odor).
PRETREATMENT: The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS: Any substantive or procedural requirement related to
pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS: Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
pretreatment standards and local limits.
PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS OR PROHIBITED DISCHARGES: Absolute prohibitions
against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions appear in
section
8-9-5 of this chapter.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): The public sewer. A "treatment works",
as defined by section 212 of the act 3  which is owned by the city of Mitchell.
This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of
a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant.
RESIDENTIAL USER: The owner(s) or occupant(s) of dwellings, such as residences,
multiple-family units, apartments, motels or hotels with connections to the
POTW that only discharge domestic wastewater, free of storm and surface water,
and industrial wastes.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and waterborne wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
SEWAGE: Human excrement, or gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, etc.). The preferred term is "wastewater".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SEWER SERVICE: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
SHALL: Shall is a mandatory statement (see definition of May).
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER:
   A.   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
   B.   A user that:
      1. Discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) gpd or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
      2. Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent (5%) or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant; or
      3. Is designated as such by the city of Mitchell on the basis that it has
a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   C.   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection B of this
definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city
may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received
from a user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.5(f)(6), determine
that such user should not be considered a significant industrial user.
SLUG LOAD OR SLUG: Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could
cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in subsection
8-9A-3A of this chapter.
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE:, A classification pursuant to
the "Standard Industrial Classification Manual" issued by the United States
office of management and budget.
STORM SEWER: A drain conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water or
unpolluted water from any source.
STORMWATER: Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
SUMP: A pump for disposing of stormwater and groundwater or unpolluted water
from any source.
SUPERINTENDENT: The person designated by the city to supervise the operation of
the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this
chapter, or a duly authorized representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
UNIT: A measure of water express, in one hundred (100) cubic feet, or
approximately seven hundred fifty (750) gallon quantities.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the POTW.
USER: See definition of Industrial User.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OR TREATMENT PLANT: That portion of the POTW which
is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. USC § 1251 et seq.
2 1. USC § 1317.
3 1. USC § 1292.
8-9-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Use Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Except as hereafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
      4.   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes which require sanitary
facilities, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or right
of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public
sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required at the owner's expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the public sewer in accordance with provisions of this chapter,
within sixty (60) days after date of official notice to do so, provided that
the public sewer is within two hundred feet (200') of the building and
reasonably accessible as determined by the superintendent.
   B.   Notice And Assessment:
      1.   Resolution And Notice To Owners: Whenever the city shall deem it
necessary to construct sewer service connections from the public sewer to the
curb line in the streets or alleys, a resolution shall be passed by the city
requiring the property owners whose property has not been connected with the
public sewer to construct such connecting sewer services from the public sewer
to the curb line in the streets or alleys within the time specified not less
then thirty (30) days from the passage of the resolution.
The resolution shall contain a notice to the owners stating what work is to be
done and the time within which they are required to do it. Such notice may be
general as to the owners but must be specified as to the descriptions of the
lots or parcels of ground in front of which such connections are to be
constructed.
      2.   Special Assessment For Connections: If such sewer service
connections are not built, laid and constructed in the manner and within the
time prescribed in said resolution, the city may order the same to be done by
such person as it may contract with and under the direction of the
superintendent at the expense of the lots and parcels of land adjoining in
front of and for the benefit of which said sewer service connections have been
laid, built and constructed. Such expense shall be assessed upon said lots and
parcels of land so chargeable by the superintendent and returned by him to the
city.
Payments therefor shall be due and payable from and after the filing of the
assessment roll with the city and shall be collected as provided by law.
All steps taken for assessing of the property affected and collecting of such
assessments and the selling of such property in default of payment of such
assessment shall be done and performed in the same manner as other special
assessments for local improvements are collected by the city. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-
1994)
8-9-3: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A.   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
subsection
8-9-2A of this chapter, the sewer service shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system the owners shall first obtain a written permit issued by the
superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
superintendent. A permit and inspection fee as provided by title 9, chapter 3
of this code shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   C.   A permit for private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
superintendent. The superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within twenty four (24) hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent.
   D.   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state department
of public health. For persons with a public water supply, no permit shall be
issued for any private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than one-half (1/2)
acre. For persons with a private well or where the private wastewater system is
within five hundred feet (500') of Lake Mitchell, no permit shall be issued for
any private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the area of the lot is less than one acre. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   No private wastewater disposal system, including drain field, or other
subsurface soil absorption facility, shall be located within three hundred
fifty feet (350') of the high water mark of Lake Mitchell, Firesteel Creek or
the tributary of Lake Mitchell which empties into Kippes Bay; except that a
sealed holding tank wastewater system which has been approved by the city may
be located no closer than one hundred feet (100') of Lake Mitchell or its
watercourse. Sealed portions of a soil absorption facility, including sealed
septic tank or drain line from building, may be closer than three hundred fifty
feet (350') but not closer than one hundred feet (100') if design is approved
by the superintendent.
   F.   At such time as public sewer becomes available to a property served by
a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in subsection
8-9-2A of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
within sixty (60) days in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material.
   G.   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   H.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the city or the state
department of public health. (Ord. 1829, 12-18-1995)
8-9-4: PUBLIC SEWERS AND SEWER SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   General Regulations:
      1.   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
      2.   There shall be two (2) classes of sewer service permits: a) for
residential and commercial service; and b) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner(s) or his agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. A
permit and inspection fee as provided by title 9, chapter 3 of this code shall
be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
      3.   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the sewer service shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the sewer service.
      4.   A separate and independent sewer service shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no public sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the sewer service
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one sewer service, but the city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
      5.   Old sewer services may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the city, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
      6.   The size, alignment, materials or construction of all sanitary
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code and
other applicable specifications or requirements of the city.
      7.   Whenever possible, the sewer service shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the public sewer at the owner(s) expense.
      8.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
groundwater to a sewer service or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to the public sanitary sewer unless such connection is
approved by the superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted drainage.
      9.   The connection of the sewer service into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code and other
applicable specifications and requirements of the city. All such connections
shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper testing. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
city before installation.
      10.   No sewer service shall be filled or sewer pipe covered until the
sewer service has been first inspected by the city, and all persons making
sewer service connections shall give at least four (4) hours' notice to the
city of the time when such service will be ready for inspection, and it shall
be the duty of the superintendent, within a reasonable time after such notice,
to inspect such sewer service, and if, in his judgment, such sewer service is
properly connected and laid with a proper grade, he shall give permission for
the filling of the trench, and if he finds such sewer service defectively or
improperly laid and connected, he shall order the same taken out and laid in
accordance with his directions.
      11.   All excavations for sewer service installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   B.   Plumbing Code Applicable: All provisions of the South Dakota state
plumbing code, insofar as said code relates to sewers, shall govern and take
precedence over this chapter, and in the event that any provision of this
chapter conflicts with said South Dakota state plumbing code, the provisions of
said code shall govern.
   C.   Installer's License:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person except a
licensed sewer installer who has been licensed as provided in this chapter to
make connections with any public sewer.
      2.   Application And Bond: The applicants shall be required to file their
applications for license under this section, in writing, with the city,
accompanied by a bond for the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to be
approved by the city, conditioned that the city will be indemnified and saved
harmless of and from accident and damages caused by any negligence in
protecting the work, or inadequate work done by virtue of such license.
      3.   Application Fee: A license may be granted to competent and practical
sewer installers by complying with the requirements of this chapter and the
payment of sums established from time to time by resolution of the city council
to the city as a license fee for the license year ending December 31 following
the granting of such license.
   D.   Connections:
      1.   Assessment Prior To Connection: Property not assessed for or not
having paid its just proportion of the cost of construction of a public sewer
to be connected with, shall pay to the city such sum as such property would be
justly assessed on account of the construction of such sewer, as determined by
the city.
      2.   Permits: No person shall connect his property with any opening or
tap into the public sewer without first having obtained a permit to do so from
the city upon the payment of a fee as established from time to time by
resolution of the city council for designating the opening for the connecting
tap. No permit shall be granted to connect any property with the public sewer
until the applicant for the same shall have complied with such terms and
conditions as the superintendent may direct, and subject to the rules and
regulations of the state department of public health in relation to the
connection of property into such sewers and the openings into the same. (Ord.
1759, 12-5-1994)
   E.   Location Of Connection: It shall be a misdemeanor for any licensed
sewer installer to make connection to the public sewer at any other place than
a designated "Y" connection, and such misdemeanor shall be punishable by a fine
as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code and his license may be revoked by the city. In the event of
a "Y" connection not being found at the place designated by the city, it shall
be the duty of the sewer installer to immediately communicate that fact to the
superintendent. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994; amd. 2005 Code)
8-9-5: CONDITIONS OF USE:
   A.   Use Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or for the owner or occupant of
any premises in the city to discharge or permit to be discharged or cause to be
discharged into the public sanitary sewer any stormwater whatever from the
roofs of buildings, from the overflow of cisterns, stormwater, surface water,
ground water, footing drains, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process
waters; and no person shall allow water to run to a sump and then allow said
water to be pumped from there to the public sanitary sewer.
      2.   It shall be the legal right of the city to enter any building which
is connected therewith to the public sewer to ascertain if the above prohibited
acts are being violated, and the city shall have the right to enter said
premises or building at all reasonable hours, and it shall be unlawful for any
person or persons to resist such entry.
      3.   If the owner or occupant of any such premises shall refuse access to
the premises by the city for such purposes, the premises may be disconnected
from the public sewer.
   B.   Prohibited Substances:
      1.   General Prohibitions. No residential user shall introduce or cause
to be introduced into the public sewer any pollutant or wastewater which causes
pass through or interference.
      2.   Specific Prohibitions. No residential user shall introduce or cause
to be introduced into the public sewer the following pollutants, substances or
wastewater:
         a.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the public
sewer, including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint
of less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
         b.   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.5 nor more than 10.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the public sewer or treatment
work equipment;
         c.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the public sewer resulting in interference but in no
case solids greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
         d.   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW;
         e.   Wastewater having a temperature greater than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C), or which will inhibit biological activity in
the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater which
causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment plant to exceed
one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C);
         f.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause pass through or interference;
         g.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
         h.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the superintendent in accordance with subsection
8-9A-4D of this chapter;
         i.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either alone or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
         j.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the city's NPDES permit;
         k.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         l.   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the superintendent;
         m.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
         n.   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both, which constitute a
slug load;
         o.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
         p.   Detergents, surface active agents or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
         q.   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in sufficient
concentrations to plug, obstruct, or otherwise interfere with the flow of
wastewater;
         r.   Wastewater causing a reading on an explosion hazard meter at any
point in the POTW of more than fifteen percent (15%) of the lower explosive
limit of the meter;
         s.   Any water or waste containing substances which are not amendable
to treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment process employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such a degree that the wastewater treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of its NPDES permit.
Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this subsection shall not be
processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW.
   C.   Grease, Oil And Sand Traps:
      1.   All traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city, and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these traps the owner(s) shall be responsible
for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captivated
material and shall maintain records of dates, and means of disposal, which are
subject to review by the superintendent.
      2.   A proper grease trap or catch basin shall be provided for all
hotels, restaurants, boarding houses, laundries, garages, butcher shops, lard
rendering establishments and all other places where the superintendent may
direct.
   D.   Accidental Discharges:
      1.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the residential user shall immediately notify the superintendent
of the incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken
by the residential user.
      2.   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the residential user
shall, unless waived by the superintendent, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
residential user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall
not relieve the residential user of any expense, loss, damage, or other
liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural
resources, or any other damage to persons or property; nor shall such
notification relieve the residential user of any fines, civil penalties, or
other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   E.   Users Outside City Limits: All residential users of the POTW, including
those outside the city limits, are subject to compliance with all provisions
contained within this chapter. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9-6: SEWER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Sewer Use Charges: To ensure the required financial surveillance, the
superintendent shall annually review the cash flows associated with providing
wastewater treatment for the city and shall report his findings to the city
council at the first regular meeting in September. Any inequities and/or
shortages of revenue caused by unforeseen changes in the cost revenue pattern
of the POTW shall be remedied immediately by a city council approved adjustment
of the unit cost figures. Adjusted unit figures shall be computed in accordance
with the principles of this section. Sewer use charges are established for use
of the wastewater facilities as established from time to time by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 2400, 4-16-2012)
   B.   Billings And Collections:
      1.   The sewer use charges prescribed by this chapter shall be collected
at the same time, in the same manner and by the same officers as water billings
rendered by the city to the owner(s) or occupant(s) of any premises or
structure so served. Premises which are divided into multiple dwellings or
apartments or other distinguishable units, shall be billed for sewer use,
including base fees, based upon the number of water meters serving the
premises. (Ord. 2374, 9-19-2011)
      2.   Charges for sewer use rendered by the city shall be due on receipt
thereof and delinquent twenty (20) days thereafter. Each sewer use charge
prescribed by this chapter for which the sewer use is supplied and used, if not
paid when due, may be recovered by the city in an action at law. All sewer use
charges levied by this chapter which are not paid when due shall be deemed to
be delinquent and the water service and sewer service of any such user may be
discontinued until payment is made and a reconnection charge is paid.
   C.   Funds Established: There have been established the required accounts
for the purpose of managing the revenues derived and to be derived from the
city's POTW:
      1.   Operation And Maintenance Account: A separate account to be known as
the operation and maintenance account, has been established for the purpose of
paying the operation and maintenance costs of the POTW. Funds required for this
account shall take precedence to assure satisfactory operation of the POTW.
      2.   Repair And Replacement Account: An account, the repair and
replacement account, has been established for repairing or replacing portions
of the POTW. Funds shall be deposited into this account at the rate of at least
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) per year.
      3.   Bond Ordinance Account: Deposits required by a bond ordinance shall
be made as required by the ordinance. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9-7: WATER METERS ON PRIVATE WELLS:
The city shall have the right to install a water meter on every main service
pipe conveying water from any private well into any building having a sewer
service connection in such a manner that all water from such private well which
is used in said building shall be registered by said meter; provided, however,
that any water for use on lawns or gardens, or for other purposes, which does
not flow into the POTW may be bypassed so as not to pass through said water
meter, and the city shall have access to said premises at all reasonable times,
for the purpose of inspecting the water system, installing and repairing said
meters and reading the same. If the owner or occupant of any such premises
shall refuse access to the premises by the city for such purposes, the premises
may be disconnected from the POTW. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9-8: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Razing Permit: No person shall raze or remove any building or structure
which is connected to the POTW or disconnect from the POTW without first having
obtained a permit therefor from the city.
   B.   Disconnection: When a disconnection from the public sewer is made, the
sewer service shall be closed to the satisfaction of the city. Closure shall be
at the curb line on residential property and at the property line on commercial
property. Inspection shall be in accordance with section
8-9-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9-9: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be:
      1.   Permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to the
POTW in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
      2.   Permitted to enter all private properties through which the city
holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to,
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any
portion of the wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All entry and
subsequent work, if any on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with
the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property
involved.
   B.   If the superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city perform
any of the necessary work on private properties referred to in this section,
they shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises. The city shall
indemnify and hold the owner harmless from and against all claims, damages,
losses and expenses arising out of or resulting from the performance of the
necessary work described above, provided that any such claims, damage, loss or
expense: 1) is attributable to bodily injury, sickness, disease or death of any
duly authorized employee of the city, or to injury to or destruction of the
company's tangible property including the loss of use resulting therefrom; and
2) is caused in whole or in part by the negligent act or omission of the
manager or duly authorized employee of the city; and 3) company has maintained
safe conditions as required in this section. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9-10: PROTECTION OF PROPERTY:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is part of the POTW. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9-11: AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT FOR SERVICES:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to limit or restrict the
power of the city to contract as provided by statute to treat or dispose of
private sewage or industrial waste originating within the city or within one
mile of the corporate limits thereof, and any contract heretofore or hereafter
entered into under such power shall be in lieu of any fees, rates, rentals or
charges established under this chapter. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9-12: HEARING BOARD:
The public works committee shall serve as a hearing board for arbitration of
differences between the superintendent and residential users on matters
concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of this chapter. Any
residential user considering himself aggrieved by being required to pay the
charge for sewer use, or for the resumption of sewer service after same has
been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest. Such residential user shall
request a hearing, in writing, then may present his claim for the consideration
of the hearing board for the amount disputed. The public works committee shall
submit its decision to the whole city council for approval prior to the same
becoming the final decision of the city. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any residential user found to be violating any provision of this chapter or
requirement imposed pursuant to this chapter, shall be guilty of a violation of
city ordinances, and on conviction thereof shall be fined as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
Any residential user violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city
of reason of such violation. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994; amd. 2005 Code)
ARTICLE A. INDUSTRIAL WASTE PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
8-9A-1: Purpose And Policy
8-9A-2: Administration
8-9A-3: General Sewer Use Requirements
8-9A-4: Pretreatment Of Wastewater
8-9A-5: Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
8-9A-6: Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
8-9A-7: Reporting Requirements
8-9A-8: Compliance Monitoring
8-9A-9: Confidential Information
8-9A-10: Publication Of Users In Significant Noncompliance
8-9A-11: Administrative Enforcement Remedies
8-9A-12: Judicial Enforcement Remedies
8-9A-13: Supplemental Enforcement Action
8-9A-14: Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
8-9A-15: Pretreatment Charges And Fees
8-9A-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the POTW for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws,
including the clean water act 1  and the general pretreatment regulations 2 .
The objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with its operation;
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will pass
through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be
incompatible with the POTW;
   C.   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
   D.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial waste and sludge from the
POTW;
   E.   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the POTW; and
   F.   To enable the city to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the POTW is subject.
This chapter shall apply to all users of the POTW, and authorizes the issuance
of wastewater discharge permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and
enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures; requires
user reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein. (Ord.
1759, 12-5-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. 33 USC § 1251 et seq.
2 2. 40 CFR, part 403.
8-9A-2: ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the wastewater superintendent shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted to or duties imposed upon the superintendent may be delegated by the
superintendent to other city personnel. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9A-3: GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prohibited Discharge Standards:
      1.   General Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
      2.   Specific Prohibitions: No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
         a.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
         b.   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.5 nor more than 10.0, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
         c.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case
solids greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension;
         d.   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either alone or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW;
         e.   Wastewater having a temperature greater than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C), or which will inhibit biological activity in
the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater which
causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment plant to exceed
one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C);
         f.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause pass through or interference;
         g.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
         h.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the superintendent in accordance with subsection
8-9A-4D of this chapter;
         i.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
         j.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the city's NPDES permit;
         k.   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         l.   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the superintendent;
         m.   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
         n.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit;
         o.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
         p.   Detergents, surface active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
         q.   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than one hundred (100) mg/l; or
         r.   Wastewater causing a reading on an explosion hazard meter at any
point in the POTW of more than fifteen percent (15%) of the lower explosive
limit of the meter.
Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section shall not be
processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW.
   B.   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards: The categorical
pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, parts 405-471
are hereby incorporated.
      1.   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 CFR 403.6(c).
      2.   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
      3.   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment
standard if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive
provisions in 40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are
fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
      4.   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard
in accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
   C.   State Pretreatment Standards: The state of South Dakota water
management board has incorporated into the state pretreatment program the
pretreatment standards referenced in subsection B of this section. Any state
pretreatment standards which are more stringent than the national categorical
pretreatment standards shall apply. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
   D.   Local Limits:
      1.   Limits Established:
         a.   The following pollutant concentration based local limits are
established. No user shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of the
following daily maximum allowable discharge limits:
   Limit   Pollutant
   0.17 mg/l   Arsenic
   0.08 mg/l   Cadmium
   2.83 mg/l   Chromium
   0.50 mg/l   Hexavalent chromium
   2.85 mg/l   Copper
   0.70 mg/l   Lead
   0.0002 mg/l   Mercury
   1.56 mg/l   Nickel
   0.11 mg/l   Selenium
   3.02 mg/l   Silver
   5.46 mg/l   Zinc
         b.   Specific Pollutant Loading For Molybdenum: The maximum daily
industrial mass based local limit for molybdenum shall be allocated through
industrial user permits and the total loading to all industrial users shall not
exceed the following limit:
   Maximum Daily Limit   Pollutant
   0.315 lbs./day      Molybdenum
All industrial users that are allocated loading shall monitor and report flows
daily as required by the industrial user permit.
         c.   Specific Pollutant Loading For BOD And TSS: The maximum
industrial loading (mass based) local limit for BOD and TSS shall be allocated
through industrial user permits and the total loading to all industrial users
shall not exceed the following limits:
   Maximum   Maximum Monthly
   Daily Limit      Average Limit   Pollutant
   4.375 lbs./day   3,169 lbs./day   BOD
   1,607 lbs./day   1,050 lbs./day   TSS
All industrial users that are allocated mass based loading shall monitor and
report flows daily as required by the industrial user permit.
      2.   The above local limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless otherwise indicated. Compliance sampling of or by an
industrial user in respect to the above stated local limits shall be based on
flow proportional composite collection techniques unless otherwise directed by
the superintendent (excluding hexavalent chromium which shall be based on grab
sample collection techniques). The superintendent may impose mass based loading
limitations in addition to, or in place of, the concentration based
limitations. (Ord. 1955, 11-15-1995)
   E.   City's Right Of Revision: The city reserves the right to establish, by
ordinance or in wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the POTW.
   F.   Dilution: No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in
any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless
expressly authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
   G.   pH Effluent Limitations Under Continuous Monitoring:
      1.   Where a user continuously measures the pH of wastewater pursuant to
a requirement in a permit issued under this code, the user shall maintain the
pH of such wastewater within the range set forth in the permit, except
excursions from the range are permitted subject to the following limitations:
         a.   The total time during which the pH values are outside the
required range of pH values shall not exceed four (4) hours thirty (30) minutes
in any calendar month; and
         b.   No individual excursion from the range of pH values specified in
the permit shall exceed thirty (30) minutes; and
         c.   No excursion below a pH of 5 is permitted; and no excursion above
a pH of 12.5 is permitted; and
         d.   No excursion which would cause pass through or interference, or
violation any other section of this code, is permitted.
      2.   For purposes of this subsection, an excursion is an unintentional
and temporary incident in which the pH values of the discharge wastewater
exceeds the range set forth in the applicable permit. (Ord. 1887, 8-18-1997)
8-9A-4: PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER:
   A.   Pretreatment Facilities: Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out
in subsection 8-9A-3A of this article within the time limitations specified by
EPA, the state or the superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any
facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated and maintained
at the user's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the superintendent for review, and shall be
acceptable to the superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The
review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a
discharge acceptable to the city under the provisions of this article.
   B.   Additional Pretreatment Measures:
      1.   Whenever deemed necessary, the superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user's compliance with the requirements of this article.
      2.   The superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      3.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the users at their expense.
      4.   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   C.   Accidental Discharge/Slug Control Plans: At least once every two (2)
years, the superintendent shall evaluate whether each significant industrial
user needs an accidental discharge/slug control plan. The superintendent may
require any user to develop, submit for approval and implement such a plan. An
accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum, the
following:
      1.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      2.   Description of stored chemicals;
      3.   Procedures for immediately notifying the superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by subsection 8-9A-7F of this
article; and
      4.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   D.   Hauled Wastewater:
      1.   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the superintendent, and at such times as are established by the
superintendent. Such waste shall not violate section
8-9A-3 of this article or any other requirements established by the city. The
superintendent may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater
discharge permits.
      2.   The superintendent shall require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain wastewater discharge permits. The superintendent may require generators
of hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The
superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this article.
      3.   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the superintendent. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the superintendent. The superintendent may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The superintendent
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
      4.   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste tracking form for
every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste and volume and characteristics of waste. The form
shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste constituents and
whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9A-5: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Wastewater Analysis: When requested by the superintendent, a user must
submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within
sixty (60) days of the request. The superintendent is authorized to prepare a
form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update this
information.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the
superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to subsection C of this section may continue to
discharge for the time period specified therein.
      2.   The superintendent may require other users to obtain wastewater
discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this article.
      3.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this article and subjects the wastewater
discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in sections
8-9A-11 through
8-9A-13 of this article. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not
relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state
pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state and local law.
   C.   Existing Connections: Any user required to obtain a wastewater
discharge permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the
effective date of this article and who wishes to continue such discharges in
the future, shall, within thirty (30) days after said date, apply to the
superintendent for a wastewater discharge permit in accordance with subsection
E of this section, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to
continue after thirty (30) days of the effective date of this article except in
accordance with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the superintendent.
A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for wastewater
discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application, in
accordance with subsection E of this section, a minimum of ninety (90) days
prior to the expiration of the user's existing wastewater discharge permit.
   D.   New Connections: Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge
permit who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must
obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An
application for this wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with subsection
E of this section, must be filed at least ninety (90) days prior to the date
upon which any discharge will begin or recommence.
   E.   Permit Application Contents: All users required to obtain a wastewater
discharge permit must submit a permit application. The superintendent may
require all users to submit as part of an application the following
information:
      1.   All information required by subsection 8-9A-7A2 of this article;
      2.   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
      3.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
      4.   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      5.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      6.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, floor drains and appurtenances by size, location and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
      7.   Time and duration of discharges; and
      8.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
superintendent to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the user for revision.
   F.   Application Signatories And Certification: All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized
representative of the user and contain the following certification statement:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
   G.   Permit Decisions: The superintendent will evaluate the data furnished
by the user and may require additional information. The superintendent may deny
any application for a wastewater discharge permit. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9A-6: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS:
   A.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration: A wastewater discharge permit
shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five (5) years from
the effective date of the permit. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued
for a period less than five (5) years, at the discretion of the superintendent.
Each wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it
will expire.
   B.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents: A wastewater discharge permit
shall include such conditions as are deemed reasonably necessary by the
superintendent to prevent pass through or interference, protect the quality of
the water body receiving the treatment plant's effluent, protect worker health
and safety, facilitate sludge management and disposal and protect against
damage to the POTW.
      1.   Wastewater discharge permits must contain:
         a.   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration
including issuance effective date and expiration date, which in no event shall
exceed five (5) years.
         b.   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to the city in accordance with
subsection D of this section, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or
operator with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
         c.   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards;
         d.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law; and
         e.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law.
      2.   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited
to, the following conditions:
         a.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         b.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
         c.   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or nonroutine
discharges;
         d.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         e.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
         f.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         g.   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
         h.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the superintendent to
ensure compliance with this article, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
   C.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Modifications: The superintendent may
modify a wastewater discharge permit for good cause including, but not limited
to, the following reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      2.   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      3.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      4.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the city's POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
      5.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      6.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      7.   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      8.   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
      9.   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator.
   D.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer: Wastewater discharge permits may
be transferred to a new owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least
ninety (90) days' advance notice to the superintendent and the superintendent
approves the wastewater discharge permit transfer. The notice to the
superintendent must include a written certification by the new owner or
operator which:
      1.   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility's operations and processes;
      2.   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      3.   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
   E.   Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation: The superintendent may revoke a
wastewater discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the
following reasons:
      1.   Failure to notify the superintendent of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      2.   Failure to provide prior notification to the superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to subsection 8-9A-7E of this article;
      3.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application;
      4.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      5.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      6.   Refusing to allow the city timely access to the facility premises
and records;
      7.   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      8.   Failure to pay fines;
      9.   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      10.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      11.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application;
      12.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      13.   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any terms
of the wastewater discharge permit or this article.
Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of operations or
transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits issued to a
particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater discharge permit
to that user.
   F.   Regulation Of Waste Received From Other Jurisdictions: All industrial
users of the POTW, including those outside the city limits, are subject to
compliance with all provisions contained within this article.
      1.   If users located beyond the jurisdictional boundaries of the city
contribute wastewater to the POTW, the superintendent shall enter into a
multijurisdictional agreement with the users' control authority.
      2.   Prior to entering into an agreement required by subsection F1 of
this section, the superintendent shall request the following information from
the users' control authority:
         a.   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged
to the POTW by the contributing users;
         b.   An inventory of all users located within the contributing control
authority's jurisdiction that are discharging to the POTW; and
         c.   Such other information as the superintendent may deem necessary.
(Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9A-7: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Baseline Monitoring Reports:
      1.   Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date
of a categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on
a category determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a) (4), whichever is later,
existing categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the superintendent a report which contains the
information listed in subsection A2 of this section. At least ninety (90) days
prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard, shall submit to the superintendent a report which contains the
information listed in subsection A2 of this section. A new source shall report
the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical
standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and
quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      2.   Users described in subsection A1 of this section shall submit the
information set forth in this subsection A2:
         a.   Identifying Information: The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
         b.   Environmental Permits: A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         c.   Description Of Operations: A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
         d.   Flow Measurement: Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
         e.   Measurement Of Pollutants:
            (1)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
            (2)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long term average concentrations, or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
subsection J of this section.
            (3)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in subsection K of this section.
         f.   Certification: A statement, reviewed by the user's authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
         g.   Compliance Schedule: If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to
this section must meet the requirements set out in subsection B of this
section.
         h.   Signature And Certification: All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with subsection 8-9A-5F of this article.
   B.   Compliance Schedule Progress Reports: The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by subsection A2g of this section:
      1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      2.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months;
      3.   The user shall submit a progress report to the superintendent no
later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final
date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and in no event
shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such progress reports to the
superintendent.
   C.   Reports On Compliance With Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline:
Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
superintendent a report containing the information described in subsection A2d
through f of this section. For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR
403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with subsection 8-9A-5F of
this article.
   D.   Periodic Compliance Reports:
      1.   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the superintendent but in no case less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
subsection 8-9A-5F of this article.
      2.   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      3.   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the superintendent,
using the procedures prescribed in subsection K of this section, the results of
this monitoring shall be included in the report.
      4.   The city at its sole option and discretion may sample and analyze
user discharges in lieu of requiring the users to conduct sampling and analysis
otherwise required by this section.
   E.   Reports Of Changed Conditions: Each user must notify the superintendent
of any planned significant changes to the user's operations or system which
might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least ninety
(90) days before the change.
      1.   The superintendent may require the user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under subsection 8-9A-
5E of this article.
      2.   The superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit under
subsection 8-9A-5G of this article or modify an existing wastewater discharge
permit under subsection 8-9A-6C of this article in response to changed
conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
      3.   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow increases of twenty percent (20%) or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
   F.   Reports Of Potential Problems:
      1.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the
superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the location of
the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and
corrective actions taken by the user.
      2.   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the user shall,
unless waived by the superintendent, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve
the user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred
as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this
article.
      3.   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in subsection F1 of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   G.   Reports From Unpermitted Users: All users not required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the
superintendent as the superintendent may require.
   H.   Notice Of Violation/Repeat Sampling And Reporting: If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the
superintendent within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the superintendent within thirty (30) days
after becoming aware of the violation. The user is not required to resample if
the city monitors at the user's facility at least once a month, or if the city
samples between the user's initial sampling and when the user receives the
results of such sampling.
   I.   Notification Of Discharge Of Hazardous Waste:
      1.   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if
otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261. Such
notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40
CFR part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge
(continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than one hundred
(100) kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification
shall also contain the following information to the extent such information is
known and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months.
All notifications must take place no later than one hundred eighty (180) days
after the discharge commences. Any notification under this subsection need be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications
of changed conditions must be submitted under subsection E of this section. The
notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already
reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment standards under the self-
monitoring requirements of subsections A, C and D of this section.
      2.   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of subsection I1 of
this section, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than
fifteen (15) kilograms of hazardous waste, unless the wastes are acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e).
      3.   In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
superintendent of the discharge of such substance within ninety (90) days of
the effective date of such regulations.
      4.   In the case of any notification made under this subsection, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      5.   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this article, a permit issued
thereunder or any applicable federal or state law.
   J.   Analytical Requirements: All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
prescribed in 40 CFR part 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable
categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR part 136 does not contain sampling
or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses
must be performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA.
   K.   Sample Collection:
      1.   Except as indicated in subsection K2 of this section, the user must
collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection
techniques. In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the
superintendent may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum
of four (4) grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab
samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
      2.   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   L.   Timing: Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the
date postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States postal service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
   M.   Record Keeping: Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
article shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this article and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method, time of sampling, and the
name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed;
who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the
results of such analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of
at least three (3) years. This period shall be automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user
has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the
superintendent. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9A-8: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
   A.   Right Of Entry; Inspection And Sampling: The city shall have the right
to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the user is complying
with all requirements of this article and any wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the city ready access to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
      1.   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the city will be permitted to enter without delay
for the purpose of performing specific responsibilities.
      2.   The city shall have the right to set up on the user's property, or
require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the user's operations.
      3.   The city may require the user to install monitoring equipment as
necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at its own
expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be
calibrated as necessary to ensure their accuracy, which shall in no case be not
less then quarterly.
      4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to the user's
premises shall be a violation of this article.
   B.   Search Warrants: If the city has been refused access to a building,
structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this article, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program of the city designed to verify compliance with this
article or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the superintendent may
seek issuance of a search warrant from the court of general jurisdiction on the
city. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9A-9: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits and monitoring
programs, and from the city's inspection and sampling activities, shall be
available to the public without restriction, unless the user specifically
requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the superintendent,
that the release of such information would divulge information, processes, or
methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable
state law. Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data. When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a
report that such information should be held confidential, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately
upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other
effluent data will not be recognized as confidential information and will be
available to the public without restriction. Nothing contained in this section
shall limit the admissibility of any relevant information or material as
evidence in any court proceeding. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9A-10: PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE:
The superintendent shall publish annually, in the largest daily newspaper
published in the city where the POTW is located, a list of the users which,
during the previous twelve (12) months, were in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The term significant
noncompliance shall mean:
   A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty six percent (66%) or more of wastewater measurements taken
during a six (6) month period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit
for the same pollutant parameter by any amount;
   B.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or exceeds the
product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the
applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all
other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other discharge violation that the superintendent believes may
cause, alone or in combination with other discharges, pass through or
interference, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
   D.   Any discharge of pollutants that may cause imminent endangerment to the
public or to the environment, or has resulted in the city's exercise of its
emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide within thirty (30) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation(s) which the superintendent determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9A-11: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
   A.   Notification Of Violation: When the city finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the city may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within ten (10) days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation
of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention
thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user
to the superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the city to
take any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action,
without first issuing a notice of violation.
   B.   Consent Orders: The city is hereby empowered to enter into consent
orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such
documents will include compliance schedules, stipulated fines or remedial
actions (specific actions to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance
within a time period specified by the document), and signatures of the city and
user's representative. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as
the administrative orders issued pursuant to subsections D and E of this
section and shall be judicially enforceable.
   C.   Show Cause Hearing: The city may order a user which has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the superintendent and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be
served on any authorized representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall
not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
user.
   D.   Compliance Orders: When the city finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the city may issue an order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time.
If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
   E.   Cease And Desist Orders: When the city finds that a user has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the city
may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such
violations and directing the user to:
      1.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      2.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge.
Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   F.   Administrative Fines:
      1.   When the city finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the city
may fine such user in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
per violation. Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per day basis.
Each day on which noncompliance shall occur or continue shall be deemed a
separate and distinct violation. In the case of monthly or other long term
average discharge standards, fines shall be assessed for each day during the
period of violation.
      2.   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall constitute a lien against
the user's property.
      3.   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the city to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount
within ten (10) days of being notified of the fine. Where the city believes a
request has merit, the city shall convene a hearing on the matter within
fifteen (15) days of receiving the request from the user. The city may add the
costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and
orders, to the fine. In the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment
shall be returned to the user. The hearing board upon such appeal shall be the
city council, provided however that the city council may appoint the public
works committee to serve as the hearing board.
      4.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   G.   Emergency Suspensions: The city may immediately suspend a user's
discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to
present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The city may also immediately suspend a user's discharge,
after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
      1.   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the city may take
such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals. The city may allow the user to recommence its
discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
superintendent that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the
termination proceedings in subsection H of this section are initiated against
the user.
      2.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the city prior to the date of any show cause
or termination hearing under subsections C or H of this section.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to
any emergency suspension under this section.
   H.   Termination Of Discharge: In addition to the provisions in subsection
8-9A-6E of this article, any user who violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
      1.   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      2.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      3.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      4.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      5.   Violation of the pretreatment standards in section
8-9A-3 of this article.
Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be
offered an opportunity to show cause under subsection C of this section why the
proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the city shall
not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
user. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9A-12: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
   A.   Injunctive Relief: When the city finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the city may petition the circuit court through the city's
attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this
article on activities of the user. The city may also seek such other action as
is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for
the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against a user.
   B.   Civil Penalties:
      1.   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the city for a
maximum civil penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per
day. In the case of a monthly or other long term average discharge standard,
penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
      2.   The city may also recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the city to
the extent allowed by law.
      3.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      4.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-
1994)
   C.   Criminal Prosecution:
      1.   A user who wilfully or negligently violates any provision of this
article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor per violation, punishable by a fine as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this article, wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this article shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code per violation, per day. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994; amd. 2005
Code)
   D.   Remedies Nonexclusive: The remedies provided for in this article are
not exclusive. The city, the South Dakota DENR or EPA may take any, all, or any
combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of
pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the city's
enforcement response plan. However, the city may take other action against any
user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the city is empowered to take
more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user. (Ord. 1759, 12-
5-1994)
8-9A-13: SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION:
   A.   Performance Bonds: The city may decline to issue or reissue a
wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with any
provision of this article, a previous wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless
such user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the city, in such sum
determined by the city to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance.
   B.   Liability Insurance: The city may decline to issue or reissue a
wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with any
provision of this article, a previous wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless the
user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances sufficient
to restore or repair damage to the POTW caused or which may be caused by its
discharge.
   C.   Water Supply Severance: Whenever a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, water
service to the user may be severed.
Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be
offered an opportunity to show cause under subsection 8-9A-11C of this article
why the proposed action should not be taken. Service will only recommence, at
the user's expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to
comply. Exercise of this option by the city shall not be a bar to, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   D.   Public Nuisances: A violation of any provision of this article, a
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and
shall be corrected or abated as directed by the city, including reimbursing the
city for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying said nuisance.
The city shall be entitled to abate such nuisance and recover its cost incurred
therein as provided by law. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9A-14: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Treatment Upset:
      1.   For the purposes of this section, “upset” means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
      2.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of subsection A3 of this section are met.
      3.   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         a.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         b.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         c.   The user has submitted the following information to the city
within twenty four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset. If this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five (5) days:
            (1)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            (2)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and tunes
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            (3)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      4.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      5.   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      6.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   B.   Prohibited Discharge Standards: A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibitions in subsection 8-9A-3A1 of this article or the specific
prohibitions in subsections 8-9A-3A2c through A2r of this article, if it can
prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone
or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through
or interference, and that either:
      1.   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each local limit directly prior to, and during, the pass
through or interference; or
      2.   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the city was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   C.   Bypass:
      1.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
    BYPASS: The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial
and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic
loss caused by delays in production.
      2.   Use Permitted: A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not
cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it
also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses
are not subject to the provision of subsections C3 and C4 of this section.
      3.   Notice Required:
         a.   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the city, at least ten (10) days before the date of the
bypass, if possible.
         b.   A user shall submit oral notice to the city of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within twenty four (24)
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five (5) days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The city may waive the written report on a case by
case basis if the oral report has been received within twenty four (24) hours.
      4.   Bypass Prohibited:
         a.   Bypass is prohibited, and the city may take an enforcement action
against a user for a bypass, unless:
            (1)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as
the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            (3)   The user submitted notices as required under subsection C3 of
this section.
         b.   The city may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the superintendent determines that it will meet the three
(3) conditions listed in subsection C4a of this section. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
8-9A-15: PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES:
The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and
operating the city's pretreatment program which may include:
   A.   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost of
processing such applications;
   B.   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   C.   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   D.   Fees for filing appeals; and
   E.   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this
article and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties chargeable by
the city. (Ord. 1759, 12-5-1994)
ARTICLE B. ILLICIT DISCHARGE, DETECTION AND ELIMINATION OF NONSTORMWATER
DISCHARGES
SECTION:
8-9B-1: Purpose; Intent
8-9B-2: Definitions
8-9B-3: Applicability
8-9B-4: Responsibility For Administration
8-9B-5: Severability
8-9B-6: Ultimate Responsibility
8-9B-7: Discharge Prohibitions
8-9B-8: Suspension Of MS4 Access
8-9B-9: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
8-9B-10: Monitoring Of Discharges
8-9B-11: Requirement To Prevent, Control, And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants By
The Use Of Best Management Practices
8-9B-12: Watercourse Protection
8-9B-13: Notification Of Spills
8-9B-14: Enforcement
8-9B-15: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
8-9B-16: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
8-9B-17: Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation
8-9B-18: Injunctive Relief
8-9B-19: Compensatory Action
8-9B-20: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
8-9B-21: Criminal Prosecution
8-9B-22: Remedies Not Exclusive
8-9B-1: PURPOSE; INTENT:
The purpose of this article is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the city of Mitchell, South Dakota, through the
regulation of nonstormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the
maximum extent practicable as required by federal and state law. This article
establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements of the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit process. The objectives of this article are:
   A.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by stormwater
discharges by any user;
   B.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
   C.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance,
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this article.
(Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms shall mean:
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: The public works department of the city, its
director, or employees designated to enforce this article.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
CITY: The city of Mitchell, South Dakota.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES construction permits. NPDES
stormwater phase II permits are required for construction projects resulting in
land disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities include, but are not
limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the storm
drain system, except as exempted in section
8-9B-7 of this article.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an
illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not limited
to, any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharge including sewage,
process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and any
connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless
of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or
approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to
the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined
in 40 CFR section 122.26(b)(14).
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by the U.S. environmental protection agency (USEPA) (or
by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC section 1342(b)) that
authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether
the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area wide basis.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
OWNER OR OPERATOR (As Defined By 40 CFR 122.2): The owner or operator of any
"facility or activity" subject to regulation under the NPDES program.
PERSON: Any individual, occupant, tenant, association, organization,
partnership, firm, corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as
either the owner or as the owner's agent.
POLLUTANT: Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordnances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Facilities by which stormwater is collected and/or
conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems,
municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and humanmade or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water
from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): A document which describes the
BMPs and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify
sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or
reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems, and/
or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-3: APPLICABILITY:
This article shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system generated
on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by an
authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The authorized enforcement agency shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this article. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the director of
the authorized enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of, or in the employment of the agency. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-
2015)
8-9B-5: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this article or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
article. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-6: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this article are
minimum standards; therefore this article does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-7: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibition Of Illegal Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater.
The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm
drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this article: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than 1 ppm chlorine),
firefighting activities, street wash water, and any other water source not
containing pollutants.
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency
as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test.
      4.   The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the USEPA, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
   B.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections:
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this article if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-8: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   A.   Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The city
of Mitchell, South Dakota, or other authorized enforcement agency may, without
prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or
welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United States. If the
violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the
authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to persons.
   B.   Suspension Due To The Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this article may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the authorized
enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-9: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the city of
Mitchell, South Dakota, or other authorized enforcement agency prior to the
allowing of discharges to the MS4. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-10: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   B.   Access To Facilities:
      1.   The city of Mitchell, South Dakota, or other authorized enforcement
agency shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation
under this article as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with
this article. If a discharger has security measures in force which require
proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the
discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to
representatives of the authorized enforcement agency.
      2.   Facility operators shall allow the city of Mitchell, South Dakota,
or other authorized enforcement agency ready access to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and copying of
records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge
stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined by state
and federal law.
      3.   The city of Mitchell, South Dakota, or other authorized enforcement
agency shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility such devices as
are necessary in the opinion of the authorized enforcement agency to conduct
monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
      4.   The city of Mitchell, South Dakota, or other authorized enforcement
agency has the right to require the discharger to install monitoring equipment
as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the
discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and
quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the city of Mitchell, South Dakota,
or other authorized enforcement agency and shall not be replaced. The costs of
clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city of Mitchell, South Dakota,
or other authorized enforcement agency access to a permitted facility is a
violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this article. A person who is
the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater
associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the
authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted facility for
the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this article.
      7.   If the city of Mitchell, South Dakota, or other authorized
enforcement agency has been refused access to any part of the premises from
which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is able to demonstrate probable
cause to believe that there may be a violation of this article, or that there
is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program designed to verify compliance with this article or any order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the
community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-11: REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
The authorized enforcement agency will adopt requirements identifying BMPs for
any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution
or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the U.S.
The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall
provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge
of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system
or watercourses through the use of these structural and nonstructural BMPs.
Further, any person responsible for a property or premises, which is, or may
be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said
person's expense, additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing
the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent
practicable, shall be deemed in compliance with the provisions of this section.
These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as
necessary for compliance with the requirements of the NPDES permit. (Ord. 2494,
1-19-2015)
8-9B-12: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-13: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or water of the U.S., said
person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials,
said person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the
occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of
nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized enforcement
agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the city of Mitchell, South Dakota, or other authorized
enforcement agency within three (3) business days of the phone notice. If the
discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3) years. (Ord.
2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the city of Mitchell, South Dakota, or
other authorized enforcement agency finds that a person has violated a
prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this article, the authorized
enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person. Such notice may require without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      2.   A plan for the correction of deficiencies;
      3.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      4.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      5.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      6.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      7.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-15: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
seven (7) days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal
before the appropriate authority or his/her designee shall take place within
twenty five (25) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The
decision of the municipal authority or their designee shall be final. (Ord.
2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-16: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within seven (7)
days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent, or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-17: COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION:
Within seven (7) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within seven (7) days. If the amount due is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by
the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become
a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment plus any legal fees to process the
lien. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become
liable to the city by reason of such violation. The liability shall be paid in
not more than twelve (12) equal payments. Interest at the rate of current
market value (percentage per annum) shall be assessed on the balance beginning
on the thirtieth day following discovery of the violation. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-
2015)
8-9B-18: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this article. If a person has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this article, the authorized enforcement
agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the
person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the
person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-
2015)
8-9B-19: COMPENSATORY ACTION:
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this
article, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-20: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
article is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
8-9B-21: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
Any person that has violated or continues to violate this article shall be
liable to prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be subject to
a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day. (Ord. 2494,
1-19-2015)
8-9B-22: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 2494, 1-19-2015)
ARTICLE C. STORM DRAINAGE AND DETENTION POND DISCHARGES
SECTION:
8-9C-1: Purpose; Intent
8-9C-2: Definitions
8-9C-3: Applicability
8-9C-4: Responsibility For Administration
8-9C-5: Severability
8-9C-6: Drainage Plan Submittal Requirements
8-9C-7: Minimization Of Increases In Runoff Volumes And Rates
8-9C-8: Water Quality And Multiple Uses
8-9C-9: Design Criteria, Standards And Methods
8-9C-10: Accommodating Flows From Upstream Tributary Areas
8-9C-11: Early Completion Of Detention Facilities
8-9C-12: Maintenance Responsibility
8-9C-13: Inspections
8-9C-14: Enforcement
8-9C-15: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
8-9C-16: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
8-9C-17: Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation
8-9C-18: Injunctive Relief
8-9C-19: Compensatory Action
8-9C-20: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
8-9C-21: Criminal Prosecution
8-9C-22: Remedies Not Exclusive
8-9C-23: Existing Drainage Systems And Alterations
8-9C-24: Public Notice And Appeal
8-9C-1: PURPOSE; INTENT:
The purpose of this article is to diminish threats to the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the City caused by runoff of excessive
stormwater from new development and redevelopment. This excessive stormwater
could result in the inundation of damageable properties, the erosion and
destabilization of downstream channels, and the pollution of valuable stream
and lake resources. The cause of increases in stormwater runoff quantity and
rate and improvement of land and as such this article regulates these
activities to prevent adverse impacts.
The objectives of this article are:
   A.   To assure that new development does not increase the drainage or flood
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage due to increased stormwater runoff;
   C.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of increased flooding
on a watershed basis;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, correction of channel
erosion problems, and flood rescue and relief operations caused by increased
stormwater runoff quantities from new development;
   E.   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources;
   F.   To preserve the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
watercourses and floodplains of watercourses and floodplains and to protect
water quality and aquatic habitats; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in order to
moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADVERSE IMPACTS: Any deleterious impact on water resources or wetlands
affecting their beneficial uses including recreation, aesthetics, aquatic
habitat, quality, and quantity.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, or governmental agency who executes the necessary
forms to procure official approval of a development or permit to carry out
construction of a development from the city of Mitchell.
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: The public works department of the city, its
director or employees designated to enforce this article.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation at all locations delineating the level of
flooding resulting from the 100-year frequency flood event.
BYPASS FLOWS: Stormwater runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property's drainage system but not under its control.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and
bank or shoreline, in or into which surface or ground water flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining, and significant removal of bottom or woody rooted
vegetation. Channel modification does not include the clearing of debris or
removal of trash.
CITY: The city of Mitchell, South Dakota.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the floodplain used to balance the loss of natural
flood storage capacity when fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain.
CONDUIT: Any channel, pipe, sewer, or culvert used for the conveyance or
movement of water, whether open or closed.
DETENTION BASIN: A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of stormwater runoff and the controlled release by gravity of
this runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
DETENTION TIME: The mean residence time of stormwater in a detention basin.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
   A.   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any addition
to a building;
   B.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days;
   C.   Construction of roads, driveways, bridges, or similar projects;
   D.   Redevelopment of a site;
   E.   Filling, dredging, grading, clearing, excavating, paving or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface;
   F.   Storage of materials or deposit of solid or liquid waste;
   G.   Any other activity that might alter the magnitude, frequency,
deviation, direction or velocity of stormwater flows from a property.
DRAINAGE PLAN: A plan, including engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describes the existing stormwater drainage system and
environmental features, as well as the drainage system and environmental
features which are proposed after development of a property.
DRAINAGEWAY: Any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the site.
DRY BASIN: A detention basin designed to drain completely after temporary
storage of stormwater flows and to normally be dry over the majority of its
bottom area.
EROSION: The general process whereby earth is removed by flowing water or wave
action.
EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF: The volume and rate of flow of stormwater discharged
from an urbanized drainage area which is or will be in excess of that volume
and rate which pertained before urbanization.
FILL: Any act by which, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOODPLAIN: That land adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
FLOODWAY: The channel and that portion of the floodplain adjacent to a stream
or watercourse which is needed to store and convey the anticipated existing and
future 100-year frequency flood discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase
in stage due to any loss of flood conveyance or storage and no more than a ten
percent (10%) increase in velocities.
GRADING: Excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
HYDROGRAPH: A graph showing for a given location on a stream or conduit, the
flow rate with respect to time.
INFILTRATION: The passage or movement of water into the soil surfaces.
MS4: Municipal separate storm sewer system.
MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: That portion of a drainage system needed to store and
convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage system.
MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: That portion of a drainage system designed for the
convenience of the public. It consists of street gutters, storm sewers, small
open channels, and swales and, where manmade, is usually designed to handle the
10-year runoff event or less.
MITIGATION: Includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative effects
which stormwater drainage and development activities might have on the public
health, safety and welfare. Examples of mitigation include compensatory
storage, soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel restoration.
NATURAL: Conditions resulting from physical, chemical, and biological processes
without intervention by man.
100-YEAR EVENT: A rainfall, runoff, or flood event having a one percent (1%)
chance of occurring in any given year.
PEAK FLOW: The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel or
conduit.
POSITIVE DRAINAGE: Provision for overland paths for all areas of a property
including depressional areas that may also be drained by storm sewer.
PROPERTY: A parcel of real estate.
RETENTION BASIN: A facility designed to completely retain a specified amount of
stormwater runoff without release except by means of evaporation, infiltration,
emergency bypass or pumping.
SEDIMENTATION: The process that deposits soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or stormwater drainage
systems.
STORM SEWER: A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: All means, natural or manmade, used for conducting
stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to the point of final outlet
from a property. The stormwater drainage system includes, but is not limited
to, any of the following: conduits and appurtenances features, canals,
channels, ditches, streams, culverts, streets, storm sewers, detention basins,
swales and pumping stations.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within
a tributary drainage basin which are in excess of the infiltration capacity of
the soils of that basin, which flow over the surface of the ground or are
collected in channels or conduits.
TIME OF CONCENTRATION: The elapsed time for stormwater to flow from the most
hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point of
interest in that watershed.
TRIBUTARY WATERSHED: All of the land surface area that contributes runoff to a
given point.
2-YEAR EVENT: A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having a fifty percent (50%)
chance of occurring in any given year.
WET BASIN: A detention basin designed to maintain a permanent pool of water
after the temporary storage of stormwater runoff. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-3: APPLICABILITY:
This article shall apply to all development in the City unless explicitly
exempted by an authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The authorized enforcement agency shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this article. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the Director of
the authorized enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employment of the agency. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-
2015)
8-9C-5: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this article or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
article. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-6: DRAINAGE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
A drainage plan may be required for any development which has the potential to
unreasonably alter the magnitude, frequency, deviation, direction, or velocity
of stormwater flows from a property and shall be required for developments one
acre or greater. Water quality provisions for public roadway projects will be
provided to the extent practical. The submittal shall include sufficient
information to evaluate the environmental characteristic of the property, the
potential adverse impacts on the development on water resources, both on site
and downstream, and the effectiveness of the proposed drainage plan in managing
stormwater runoff. The applicant shall certify on the drawings that all
clearing, grading, drainage and construction shall be accomplished in strict
conformance with the drainage plan. The following information shall be
submitted for both existing and proposed property conditions. Properties
smaller than ten (10) acres shall submit only the basic drainage plan called
for in subsection A of this section. Properties larger than ten (10) acres
shall comply with the submittal requirements of both the basic drainage plan
and the advanced drainage plan of subsection B of this section. An applicant
may be denied or refused a building permit if the submitted drainage plan fails
to prove that any alteration to the magnitude, frequency, deviation, direction,
or velocity of stormwater flows is reasonable. (Ord. O2017-10, 8-21-2017)
   A.   Basic Drainage Plan:
      1.   Topographic Map: A topographic survey of the property at one foot
(1') contours based on existing conditions, and areas upstream and downstream,
necessary to determine off site impacts to the proposed drainage plan (at a
minimum the topography should be extended at least 100 feet beyond the site's
boundaries). Also, all proposed contours (grading plan) should be drawn in at
one foot (1') intervals. If required by the authorized enforcement agency, the
map should be keyed to a FEMA datum. The authorized enforcement agency should
be consulted prior to plan submittal.
      2.   Drainage System: Mapping and descriptions, where relevant, of
existing and proposed drainage system features of the property and immediate
vicinity including:
         a.   The banks and centerline of streams and channels;
         b.   Shoreline of lakes, ponds, and detention basins;
         c.   Farm drains and tiles;
         d.   Subwatershed boundaries within the property;
         e.   Watershed soils classifications;
         f.   The property's location within the larger watershed;
         g.   Location, size and slope of stormwater conduits and drainage
swales;
         h.   Sanitary or combined sewers;
         i.   Depressional storage areas;
         j.   Delineation of upstream and downstream drainage features and
watersheds which might be affected by the development;
         k.   Detention facilities;
         l.   Roads and streets and associated stormwater inlets;
         m.   Base flood elevation, and regulatory floodway where identified
for the property; and
         n.   Basis of design for the final drainage network components.
      3.   Environmental Features: A depiction of environmental features of the
property and immediate vicinity including the following:
         a.   The limits of wetland areas;
         b.   Any designated natural areas; and
         c.   Any proposed environmental mitigation features.
   B.   Advanced Drainage Plan: The same information as required in subsection
A of this section is required for properties larger than ten (10) acres along
with the following additional information for the minor drainage system's
design runoff event and the 100-year runoff event of critical duration:
      1.   Elevations and maps of 100-year flooding;
      2.   Cross section data for open channel flow paths and designated
overland flow paths;
      3.   Direction of storm flows (both low flows and flood [100-year]
flows);
      4.   Flow rates and velocities at representative points in the drainage
system; and
      5.   A statement by the design engineer of the drainage system's
provisions for handling events greater than the 100-year runoff. (Ord. 2495, 1-
19-2015)
8-9C-7: MINIMIZATION OF INCREASES IN RUNOFF VOLUMES AND RATES:
In the selection of a drainage plan for a development, the applicant shall
evaluate and implement, where practicable, site design features that minimize
the increase in runoff volumes and rates from the site. The applicant's
drainage plan submittal shall include evaluations of site design features which
are consistent with the following hierarchy:
   A.   Minimize impervious surfaces on the property consistent with the needs
of the project;
   B.   Attenuate flows by use of open vegetated swales and natural depressions
and preserve existing natural stream channels;
   C.   Infiltrate runoff on site;
   D.   Provide stormwater retention structures;
   E.   Provide stormwater detention structures; and
   F.   Construct storm sewers. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-8: WATER QUALITY AND MULTIPLE USES:
The drainage system should be designed to minimize adverse water quality
impacts downstream and on the property itself. Detention basins shall
incorporate design features to capture stormwater runoff pollutants. Retention
and infiltration of stormwater shall be promoted throughout the property's
drainage system to reduce the volume of stormwater runoff and to reduce the
quantity of runoff pollutants. The drainage system should incorporate multiple
uses where practicable. Uses considered compatible with stormwater management
include open space, aesthetics, aquatic habitat, recreation (boating, trails,
playing fields), wetlands and water quality mitigation. The applicant should
avoid using portions of the property exclusively for stormwater management.
(Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-9: DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND METHODS:
   A.   Release Rates: The drainage system for a property shall be designed to
control the peak rate of discharge from the property for the 100-year, 24-hour
storm event to level which will not cause an increase in flooding or channel
instability downstream when considered in aggregate with other developed
properties and downstream drainage capacities. The peak 100-year discharge
shall not be greater than 5-year predevelopment discharge for the site. In no
cases should the proposed release rate be greater than the existing release
rate.
   B.   Detention Basin Outlet Design: Backwater on the outlet structure from
the downstream drainage system shall be evaluated when designing the outlet.
   C.   Detention Storage Requirements: The design maximum storage to be
provided in a detention basin shall be based on the runoff from the 100-year,
24-hour event and reservoir (also called modified pulse or level pool) routing
or equal. Detention storage shall be computed using hydrograph methods as
described in this section.
   D.   Drainage System Design And Evaluation: The following criteria should be
used in evaluating and designing the drainage system. The underlying objective
is to provide capacity to pass the 10-year peak flow in the minor drainage
system and an overland flow path for flows in excess of the minor system design
capacity (major system).
      1.   Design Methodologies: Major and minor conveyance systems for areas
up to fifty (50) acres may be designed using the rational formula. The rational
formula may also be used in sizing the minor drainage system for larger sites.
Runoff hydrograph methods as described in subsection E of this section must be
used for major drainage system design for all systems with greater than fifty
(50) acres of drainage area and for the design of all detention basins.
      2.   Positive Drainage: Whenever practicable, all areas of the property
must be provided an overland flow path that will pass the 100-year flow at a
stage at least one foot (1') below the lowest foundation grade in the vicinity
of the flow path. Overland flow paths designed to handle flows in excess of the
minor drainage system capacity shall be provided drainage easements. Street
ponding and flow depths shall not exceed curb heights by more than one inch
(1").
   E.   Methods For Generating Runoff Hydrographs: Runoff hydrographs shall be
developed incorporating the following assumptions of rainfall amounts and
antecedent moisture:
      1.   Rainfall: Design rainfall events shall be based on the design
rainfall data from the national weather bureau - NOAA Atlas 14. A type II
intensity-duration relationship, as defined by the soil conservation service
(SCS) should be used for rainfall distribution.
      2.   Antecedent Moisture: Computations of runoff hydrographs which do not
rely on a continuous accounting of antecedent moisture conditions shall assume
a conservative wet antecedent moisture condition as a minimum.
   F.   Wet Detention Basin Design: Wet detention basins shall be designed to
remove stormwater pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing, and as
much as feasible to be available for recreational use.
      1.   Wet Basin Depths: Wet basins shall be at least three feet (3') deep,
excluding near shore banks and safety ledges. If fish habitat is to be
provided, they shall be at least ten feet (10') deep over twenty five percent
(25%) of the bottom area to prevent winter freeze out.
      2.   Wet Basin Shoreline Slopes: The side slopes of wet basins at the
normal pool elevation shall not be steeper than 5H:1V (horizontal to vertical).
      3.   Permanent Pool Volume: The permanent pool volume in a wet basin at
normal depth shall be equal to the runoff volume from its watershed for the 2-
year event.
      4.   Inlet And Outlet Orientation: To the extent feasible, the distance
between detention inlets and outlets shall be maximized. If possible, they
should be at opposite ends of the basin.
   G.   Wetland And Dry Detention Basin Design: In addition to the other
requirements of this article, wetland and dry basins shall be designed to
remove stormwater pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing and as
much as feasible to be available for multiple uses.
      1.   Wetland And Dry Basin Drainage: Wetland and dry basins shall be
designed so that the portion of their bottom area which is intended to be dry
shall have standing water no longer than forty eight (48) hours for all runoff
events less than the 100-year event. Underdrains directed to the outlet may be
used to accomplish this requirement. Grading plans shall clearly distinguish
the wet/wetland portion of the basin bottom from the dry portion.
      2.   Velocity Dissipation: Velocity dissipation measures shall be
incorporated into dry basin designs to minimize erosion at inlets and outlets
and to minimize the resuspension of pollutants.
      3.   Inlet And Outlet Orientation: To the extent feasible, the distance
between detention inlets and outlets shall be maximized. If possible, they
should be at opposite ends of the basin. There should be no low flow bypass
between the inlet and outlet and paved low flow channels shall be avoided.
      4.   Stilling/Sedimentation Basins: A stilling/sedimentation basin should
be constructed at each major inlet to a wetland or dry basin. The volume of the
basins should be at least five hundred (500) cubic feet per acre of impervious
surface in the drainage area. Side slopes of the basins shall be no steeper
than 3H:1V and basin depths should be at least three feet (3') to minimize
resuspension of accumulated sediment.
   H.   Minimum Detention Restrictor Size: Where a single pipe outlet or
orifice plate is to be used to control discharge, it shall have a minimum
diameter of four inches (4"). The outlet pipe from the restrictor structure
should have a minimum diameter of twelve inches (12") and should always have a
capacity greater than the restrictor under design head.
   I.   Detention In Floodplains: The placement of detention basins within the
floodplain is strongly discouraged because of questions about their reliable
operation during flood events. However, the stormwater detention requirements
of this article may be fulfilled by providing detention storage within flood
fringe areas on the project site provided the following provisions are met:
      1.   Detention In Flood Fringe Areas: The placement of detention basin in
a flood fringe area shall require compensatory storage for 1.0 times the volume
below the base flood elevation occupied by the detention basin including any
berms. The release from the detention storage provided shall still be
controlled consistent with the requirements of this section. The applicant
shall demonstrate its operation for all stream flow and floodplain backwater
conditions. Excavations for compensatory storage along watercourses shall be
opposite or adjacent to the area occupied by detention. All floodplain storage
lost below the 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced below the 10-year
flood elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
compensatory storage excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse.
      2.   On Stream Detention: On stream detention basins are discouraged but
allowable if they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other
provisions of this article with respect to water quality and control of the
100-year event from the property. Further criteria are presented in section
8-9C-10 of this article. If on stream detention is used for watersheds larger
than one square mile, it is recommended that the applicant use dynamic modeling
to demonstrate that the design will not increase stage for any properties
upstream or downstream of the property. Also, impoundment of the stream as part
of on stream detention:
         a.   Shall not prevent the migration of indigenous fish species, which
require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle, such as for
spawning;
         b.   Shall not cause or contribute to the degradation of water quality
or stream aquatic habitat;
         c.   Shall include a design calling for gradual bank slopes,
appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation basin;
         d.   Shall not involve any stream channelization or the filling of
wetlands;
         e.   Shall require the implementation of an effective nonpoint source
management program throughout the upstream watershed which shall include at a
minimum: runoff reduction BMPs consistent with section
8-9C-7 of this article; 2-year detention/sedimentation basins for all
development consistent with subsection J4 of this section; and a program to
control nonpoint sources at the source for prior developments constructed
without appropriate stormwater BMPs;
         f.   Shall not occur downstream of a wastewater discharge; and
         g.   Shall comply with all state and federal laws.
   J.   Protection Of Wetlands And Depressional Storage Areas: Wetlands and
other depressional storage areas shall be protected from damaging modifications
and adverse changes in runoff quality and quantity associated with land
developments. In addition to the other requirements of this article, the
following requirements shall be met for all developments whose drainage flows
into wetlands and depressional storage areas (as appropriate):
      1.   Detention In Wetlands And Depressional Storage Areas: Existing
wetlands shall not be modified for the purposes of stormwater detention unless
it is demonstrated that the existing wetland is low in quality and the proposed
modifications will maintain or improve its habitat and ability to perform
beneficial functions. Existing storage and release rate characteristics of
wetlands and other depressional storage areas shall be maintained without off
site release and the volume of detention storage provided to meet the
requirements of this section shall be in addition to this existing storage.
      2.   Sediment Control: The existing wetland shall be protected during
construction by appropriate soil erosion and sediment control measures and
shall not be filled.
      3.   Alteration Of Drainage Patterns: Site drainage patterns shall not be
altered to substantially decrease or increase the existing area tributary to
the wetland and the volume of flow to the wetland.
      4.   Detention/Sedimentation: All runoff from the development shall be
routed through a preliminary detention/sedimentation basin designed to capture
the 2-year, 24-hour event and hold it for at least twenty four (24) hours,
before being discharged to the wetland. This basin shall be constructed before
property grading begins.
      5.   Vegetated Buffer Strip: A buffer strip of at least twenty five feet
(25') in width, preferably vegetated with native plant species, shall be
maintained or restored around the periphery of the wetland.
   K.   Street, Parking Lot, And Culvert Drainage:
      1.   Streets: If streets are to be used as part of the minor or major
drainage system, ponding depths shall not exceed curb heights by more than one
inch (1") and shall not remain flooded for more than eight (8) hours for any
event less than or equal to the 100-year event.
      2.   Parking Lots: The maximum stormwater ponding depth in any parking
area shall not exceed six inches (6") for more than four (4) hours.
      3.   Culvert Road And Driveway Crossings: Sizing of culvert crossings
shall consider entrance and exit losses as well as tailwater conditions on the
culvert. The hydraulic design of culverts should be based on the 10-year storm
event for minor drainage systems and 100-year storm event for major drainage
systems.
   L.   Infiltration Practices: To effectively reduce runoff volumes,
infiltration practices including basins, trenches, and porous pavement should
be located on soils in hydrologic soil groups "A" or "B" as designated by the
U.S. soil conservation service. Infiltration basins and trenches designed to
recharge groundwater shall not be located within seventy five feet (75') of a
water supply well or a building foundation. A sediment-settling basin shall be
provided to remove coarse sediment from stormwater flows before they reach
infiltration basins or trenches. Stormwater shall not be allowed to stand more
than forty eight (48) hours over eighty percent (80%) of a dry basin's bottom
area for the maximum design event to be exfiltrated. The bottom of infiltration
facilities shall be a minimum of four feet (4') above seasonably high
groundwater and bedrock.
      1.   Vegetated Filter Strips And Swales: To effectively filter stormwater
pollutants and promote infiltration of runoff, sites should be designed to
maximize the use of vegetated filter strips and swales. Wherever practicable,
runoff from impervious surfaces should be directed onto filter strips and
swales before being routed to a storm sewer or detention basin.
   M.   Safety Considerations: The drainage system components, especially all
detention basins, shall be designed to protect the safety of any children or
adults coming in contact with the system during runoff events.
      1.   Side Slopes: The side slopes of all detention basins at 100-year
capacity shall be as level as practicable to prevent accidental falls into the
basin and for stability and ease of maintenance. Side slopes of detention
basins and open channels shall not be steeper than 3H:1V.
      2.   Safety Ledge: All wet detention basins shall have a level safety
ledge at least eight feet (8') in width, approximately 2.5 feet to 3.0 feet
below the normal water depth. The safety shelf should be backpitched toward the
shore (i.e., 3 feet deep at the shore and 2 feet deep, 8 feet from the shore).
      3.   Velocity: Velocities throughout the surface drainage system shall be
controlled to safe levels taking into consideration rates and depths of flow.
      4.   Overflow Structures: All stormwater detention basins shall be
provided with an overflow structure capable of safely passing excess flows at a
stage at least one foot (1') below the lowest foundation grade in the vicinity
of the detention basin. The design flow rate of the overflow structure shall be
equivalent to the critical duration 100-year inflow rate. The overflow
elevation and maximum depth should be indicated on the plans. The minimum top
of berm elevation shall be at least six inches (6") above the elevation at
maximum overflow depth (100-year) and the top of berm shall be at least one
foot (1') above the invert of the overflow structure.
   N.   Maintenance Considerations: The stormwater drainage system shall be
designed to minimize and facilitate maintenance. Turfed side slopes shall be
designed to allow lawn mowing equipment to easily negotiate them. Wet basins
shall be provided with alternate outflows that can be used to completely drain
the pool for sediment removal. (Pumping may be considered if drainage by
gravity is not feasible.) Presedimentation basins shall be included, where
feasible, for localizing sediment deposition and removal. Access for heavy
equipment shall be provided (for basins not adjacent to any roads, this should
be provided in the form of an access easement 15 feet wide from the road to the
basin). A twenty five foot (25') easement (minimum) around the basin should be
provided from the normal water surface elevation of a wet basin or the 100-year
water surface elevation of a dry basin. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-10: ACCOMMODATING FLOWS FROM UPSTREAM TRIBUTARY AREAS:
Stormwater runoff from areas tributary to the property shall be considered in
the design of the property's drainage system. Whenever practicable, flows from
upstream areas that are not to be detained should be routed around the basin
being provided for the site being developed. The applicant's engineer shall
discuss the design implications (in regards to adhering to this section of the
article) with the authorized enforcement agency during preliminary engineering
to determine a course of action.
   A.   Upstream Areas Not Meeting Article Requirements: When there are areas
not meeting the storage and release rates of this article, tributary to the
applicant's property, the following steps shall be followed:
      1.   The applicant shall compute the storage volume needed for the
property using the release rates of section
8-9C-9 of this article, the applicant's property area, and the procedures
described in section
8-9C-9 of this article.
      2.   Allowable release rates shall be computed using the combined
property areas.
      3.   The applicant shall bypass all tributary area flows around the
applicant's basin whenever practicable. If the applicant routes the off site
area through the basin, the allowable release rate for the on site and off site
tributary area should be used.
      4.   If the applicant must route upstream flows through the basin and the
upstream areas exceed one square mile in size, the applicant must meet the
provisions of subsection
8-9C-9I2 of this article for on stream basins.
   B.   Upstream Areas Meeting Article Requirements: When there are areas which
meet the storage and release rate requirements of this article, tributary to
the applicant's property, the upstream flows shall be bypassed around the
applicant's detention basin, or be routed through the applicant's detention
basin if this is the only practicable alternative. Storage needed for the
applicant's property shall be computed as described in subsection A1 of this
section. However, if the city decides to route tributary area flows through an
applicant's basin, the final design stormwater releases shall be based on the
combined total of the applicant's property plus tributary areas. It must be
shown that at no time will the runoff rate from the applicant's property exceed
the allowable release rate for the property alone. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-11: EARLY COMPLETION OF DETENTION FACILITIES:
Where detention, retention or depressional storage areas are to be used as part
of the drainage system for a property, they shall be constructed as the first
element of the initial earthwork program. Any eroded sediment captured in these
facilities shall be removed by the applicant prior to project completion in
order to maintain the design volume of the facilities. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-12: MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY:
Maintenance of stormwater drainage facilities located on private property shall
be the responsibility of the owner of that property (homeowners' association -
HOA). Before a permit is obtained from the city, or other authorized
enforcement agency the applicant shall execute a maintenance agreement with the
city, or other authorized enforcement agency guaranteeing that the applicant
and all future owners of the property HOA will maintain its stormwater drainage
system. As part of the maintenance agreement, a maintenance plan for the site
will be required for the ongoing maintenance of all stormwater management
system components including wetlands and buffer areas prior to plan approval.
The plan shall include:
   A.   Maintenance tasks.
   B.   The party responsible for performing the maintenance tasks.
   C.   A description of all permanent public or private access maintenance
easements and overland flow paths, and compensatory storage areas.
   D.   A description of dedicated sources of funding for the required
maintenance. An example would be a dormant special service area that can be
implemented if the maintenance of the basin is not being completed by the HOA.
The development shall meet the requirements of this article and shall be
certified and sealed by a registered professional engineer. The maintenance
agreement shall also specifically authorize representatives of the city to
enter onto the property for the purpose of inspections and maintenance of the
drainage system. Such agreement shall be recorded with county register of
deeds. The maintenance agreement shall include a schedule for regular
maintenance of each aspect of the property's stormwater drainage system and
shall provide for access to the system for inspection by authorized personnel
of the city or other authorized enforcement agency. The maintenance agreement
shall also stipulate that if the authorized enforcement agency of the city or
other authorized enforcement agency notifies the property owner in writing of
maintenance problems that require correction, the property owner shall make
such corrections within thirty (30) calendar days of such notification. If the
corrections are not made within this time period, the city of Mitchell, South
Dakota, or other authorized enforcement agency may have the necessary work
completed and assess the cost to the property owner HOA. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-13: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspections During Construction: General site grading shall not begin
until the Mitchell's authorized enforcement agency has certified in writing to
the applicant that any necessary detention facilities are in place and
operational. The authorized enforcement agency, will also conduct periodic
inspections of the work in progress to be certain that the drainage system is
being built as designed. If any violations of the provisions or requirements of
this article are noted during such inspections, the authorized enforcement
agency shall notify the property owner in writing of the items needing
correction. The property owner shall have ten (10) calendar days to make such
corrections unless given a specific extension of time in writing by the
authorized enforcement agency. Failure to complete such corrections within the
specified time period shall constitute a violation of this article.
   B.   Final Inspection: Upon notification by the applicant that the drainage
system is completed, the authorized enforcement agency, shall conduct a final
inspection. If the drainage system is found to contain deficiencies that
require correction, the authorized enforcement agency, shall notify the
property owner of the necessary corrections. The property owner shall correct
such deficiencies within ten (10) calendar days unless given a specific
extension of time in writing by the authorized enforcement agency. Failure to
make necessary corrections within the specified time period shall constitute a
violation of this article. Upon finding that the drainage system meets the
provisions and requirements of this article, the authorized enforcement agency
shall issue, in writing, a notice of drainage system completion to the property
owner.
   C.   Routine Inspections: All privately owned drainage systems shall be
inspected by the authorized enforcement agency not less often than once per
year. A written report shall be filed of the results of any inspection and a
copy sent to the property owner detailing any problems that need correction.
(Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the City of Mitchell, South Dakota, or
other authorized enforcement agency finds that a person has violated a
prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this article, the authorized
enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person. Such notice may require without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      2.   A plan for the correction of deficiencies;
      3.   The correction of deficiencies;
      4.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      5.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      6.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      7.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
   B.   Stop Work Order: The City may issue a stop work order or may revoke any
permits previously granted by the City relating to the violating property. A
stop work order or permit revocation may be appealed in the same manner as for
a notice of violation. (Ord. O2017-10, 8-21-2017)
8-9C-15: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
seven (7) days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal
before the appropriate authority or his/her designee shall take place within
twenty five (25) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The
decision of the Municipal authority or their designee shall be final. (Ord.
2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-16: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within seven (7)
days of the decision of the Municipal authority upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent, or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-17: COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION:
Within seven (7) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within seven (7) days. If the amount due is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the Municipal authority or by
the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become
a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment plus any legal fees to process the
lien. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become
liable to the City by reason of such violation. The liability shall be paid in
not more than twelve (12) equal payments. Interest at the rate of current
market value (percentage per annum) shall be assessed on the balance beginning
on the thirtieth day following discovery of the violation. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-
2015)
8-9C-18: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this article. If a person has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this article, the authorized enforcement
agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the
person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the
person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-
2015)
8-9C-19: COMPENSATORY ACTION:
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this
article, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as detention basin maintenance, storm
drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc. (Ord.
2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-20: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
article is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-21: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
Any person that has violated or continues to violate this article shall be
liable to prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be subject to
a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day. (Ord. 2495,
1-19-2015)
8-9C-22: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable Federal, State or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 2495, 1-19-2015)
8-9C-23: EXISTING DRAINAGE SYSTEMS AND ALTERATIONS:
No person may alter the magnitude, frequency, deviation, direction, or velocity
of stormwater flows. A person charged with a violation of this section may
raise as an affirmative defense that such alteration is reasonable. All
drainage systems within the City of Mitchell, whether placed prior to or
subsequent to the passage of this section, shall be subject to this section.
(Ord. O2017-10, 8-21-2017)
8-9C-24: PUBLIC NOTICE AND APPEAL:
   A.   Whenever a building permit is issued relating to a property for which a
drainage plan was required, submitted, and approved, the City shall publish
notice on the City's website and/or in the designated official newspaper.
   B.   The notice shall include the location of the development and a
description of where the drainage flow is expected to run. The notice shall
also state that any party believing to be adversely affected by such drainage
may file an appeal, within ten (10) days of the posting of the notice,
regarding the issuance of the building permit pursuant to section
1-6-3 of this Code.
   C.   The City Council shall hear such an appeal and render its decision as
to whether the building permit was properly issued and shall specifically make
a determination whether or not the submitted drainage plan's proposed
alteration is reasonable. The City Council, in determining reasonableness,
shall weigh all evidence presented which may include factors such as the
respective uses of land and drainage by each party, topography, volume and
direction of drainage, consequences of drainage, effects of artificial changes
in drainage, alternatives, and avoidance of unnecessary injury. The Council's
decision on whether the building permit was properly issued shall be final.
   D.   No property interest shall arise in such a building permit until after
the time to file an appeal has expired or until after the City Council has
determined on appeal that the issuance was proper, whichever is later, and, if
the Council determines that the building permit was not properly issued, the
building permit shall be deemed to have never been issued. (Ord. O2017-10, 8-
21-2017)
ARTICLE D. SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
SECTION:
8-9D-1: Purpose; Intent
8-9D-2: Definitions
8-9D-3: Applicability
8-9D-4: Responsibility For Administration
8-9D-5: Severability
8-9D-6: General Principles
8-9D-7: Site Development Permit
8-9D-8: Design And Requirements
8-9D-9: Maintenance Of Control Measures
8-9D-10: Inspection
8-9D-11: Notifications
8-9D-12: Special Precautions
8-9D-13: Amendment Of Plans
8-9D-14: Enforcement
8-9D-15: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
8-9D-16: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
8-9D-17: Cost Of Abatement Of Violation
8-9D-18: Injunctive Relief
8-9D-19: Compensatory Action
8-9D-20: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
8-9D-21: Criminal Prosecution
8-9D-22: Remedies Not Exclusive
8-9D-23: Adoption Of Article
8-9D-1: PURPOSE; INTENT:
The purpose of this article is to safeguard persons, protect property, prevent
damage to the environment, and promote the public welfare of the city of
Mitchell, South Dakota, by guiding, regulating and controlling the design,
construction, use and maintenance of any development or other activity which
disturbs or breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the movement of earth on
land situated in the city. It is the intention of this article that the
delivery of sediment from sites affected by land disturbing activities be
limited, as closely as practicable, to that which would have occurred if the
land had been left in its natural undisturbed state.
The objectives of this article are to minimize soil erosion because:
   A.   Excessive quantities of soil may erode from areas undergoing
development for certain nonagricultural uses including, but not limited to, the
construction of dwelling units, commercial buildings and industrial plants, the
building of roads and highways, the modification of stream channels and
drainageways, and the creation of recreational facilities;
   B.   The washing, blowing, and falling of eroded soil across and upon
roadways endangers the health and safety of users thereof, by decreasing vision
and reducing traction of road vehicles;
   C.   Soil erosion necessitates the costly repairing of gullies, washed-out
fills, and embankments;
   D.   Sediment from soil erosion tends to clog sewers and ditches and to
pollute and silt rivers, streams, lakes, wetlands, and reservoirs;
   E.   Sediment limits the use of water and waterways for most beneficial
purposes, promotes the growth of undesirable aquatic weeds, destroys fish and
other desirable aquatic life, and is costly and difficult to remove; and
   F.   Sediment reduces the channel capacity of waterways and the storage
capacity of floodplains and natural depressions, resulting in increased chances
of flooding at risk to public health and safety. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-2: DEFINITIONS:
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: The public works department of the city, its
director or employees designated to enforce this article.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the city for the construction, erection or
alteration of a structure or building.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: Formally attesting that the specific inspections and
tests where required have been performed, and that such tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this article.
CITY: The city of Mitchell, South Dakota.
CLEARING: Any activity that removes vegetative ground cover.
CUBIC YARDS: The amount of material in excavation and/or fill measured by the
method of "average end areas".
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
   A.   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any addition
to a building;
   B.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days;
   C.   Construction of roads, bridges, or similar projects;
   D.   Redevelopment of a site;
   E.   Filling, dredging, grading, clearing, excavating, paving or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface;
   F.   Storage of materials or deposit of solid or liquid waste;
   G.   Any other activity that might alter the magnitude, frequency,
deviation, direction or velocity of stormwater flows from a property.
DRAINAGEWAY: Any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the site.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar, material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing (natural) ground surface
prior to excavation or filling.
FILL: Any act by which, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FINAL GRADE: The vertical location of the ground or pavement surface after the
grading work is completed in accordance with the site development plan.
GRADING: Excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY: Any land change that may result in soil erosion from
wind, water and/or ice and the movement of sediments into or upon waters,
lands, or rights of way within the city, including, but not limited to,
building demolition, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, transporting
and filling of land.
MS4: Municipal separate storm sewer system.
MANUAL OF STANDARDS: A compilation of technical standards and design
specifications adopted by the public works/city engineering department as being
proven methods of controlling construction related surface runoff, erosion and
sedimentation. The reference material at this time is the South Dakota
department of transportation (SDDOT) "Manual On Erosion And Sediment Control
And Stormwater Management 2014", as amended.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
PARCEL: All contiguous land owned by a single entity.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a site development permit is issued.
PERSON: Any individual, firm or corporation, public or private, the state of
South Dakota and its agencies or political subdivisions, and the United States
Of America, its agencies and instrumentalities, and any agent, servant, officer
or employee of any of the foregoing.
REMOVAL: Cutting vegetation to the ground or stumps, complete extraction, or
killing by spraying.
SITE: A lot or parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where
grading work is performed as a single unified operation.
SITE DEVELOPMENT: Altering terrain and/or vegetation and constructing
improvements.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the city for the construction or
alteration of ground improvements and structures for the control of erosion,
runoff and grading.
STREAM: Any river, creek, brook, branch, flowage, ravine, or natural or manmade
drainageway which has a definite bed and banks or shoreline, in or into which
surface or ground water flows, either perennially or intermittently.
STRIPPING: Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover including
tree removal, clearing, and storage or removal of topsoil.
VACANT: Land on which there are no structures or only structures that are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
WETLANDS: Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-3: APPLICABILITY:
This article shall apply to any land disturbance activity within the city of
Mitchell unless explicitly exempted by an authorized enforcement agency. (Ord.
2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The authorized enforcement agency shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this article. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the director of
the authorized enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employment of the agency. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-
2015)
8-9D-5: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this article or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
article. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-6: GENERAL PRINCIPLES:
It is the objective of this article to control soil erosion and sedimentation
caused by development activities, including clearing, grading, stripping,
excavating, and filling of land, in the city. Measures taken to control soil
erosion and off site sediment runoff should be adequate to assure that sediment
is not transported from the site by a storm event of 2-year or 24-hour storm
event. The following principles shall apply to all development activities
within the city and to the preparation of the submissions required under
section
8-9D-7 of this article:
   A.   Development should be related to the topography and soils of the site
so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of steep slopes where
high cuts and fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible, and
natural contours should be followed as closely as possible.
   B.   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever possible.
Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses, lakes, ponds, and wetlands
should be left undisturbed wherever possible. Temporary crossings of
watercourses, when permitted must include appropriate stabilization measures.
   C.   Special precautions should be taken to prevent damages resultant from
any necessary development activity within or adjacent to any stream, lake,
pond, or wetland. Preventative measures should reflect the sensitivity of these
areas to erosion and sedimentation.
   D.   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the shortest
practical time during development.
   E.   Sediment basins or traps, filter barriers, diversions, and any other
appropriate sediment or runoff control measures should be installed prior to
site clearing and grading and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters
from land undergoing development.
   F.   The selection of erosion and sedimentation control measures should be
based on assessment of the probable frequency of climatic and other events
likely to contribute to erosion, and on evaluation of the risks, costs, and
benefits involved.
   G.   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices, aesthetics
and the requirements of continuing maintenance should be considered.
   H.   Provision should be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changed soil and surface conditions during and after development. Drainageways
should be designed so that their final gradients and the resultant velocities
and rates of discharge will not create additional erosion on site or
downstream.
   I.   Permanent vegetation and structures should be installed and functional
as soon as practical during development.
   J.   Those areas being converted from agricultural purposes to other land
uses should be vegetated with an appropriate protective cover prior to
development.
   K.   All waste generated as a result of site development activity should be
properly disposed of and should be prevented from being carried off the site by
either wind or water.
   L.   All construction sites should provide measures to prevent sediment from
being tracked onto public or private roadways. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-7: SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this article, no
person shall commence or perform any clearing, grading, stripping, excavating,
or filling of land which meets the following provisions without having first
obtained a site development permit from the city of Mitchell.
      1.   Any land disturbing activity (i.e., clearing, grading, stripping,
excavation, fill, or any combination thereof) that will affect an area in
excess of five thousand (5,000) square feet;
      2.   Any land disturbing activity that will affect an area in excess of
five hundred (500) square feet if the activity is within twenty five feet (25')
of a lake, pond, stream, or wetland; or
      3.   Excavation, fill, or any combination thereof that will exceed one
hundred (100) cubic yards.
   B.   Exceptions: A permit shall not be required for any of the following
provided that the person responsible for any such development shall implement
necessary soil erosion and sediment control measures to satisfy the principles
set forth in section
8-9D-6 of this article:
      1.   Excavation below final grade for the basement and footings of a
single-family residence and appurtenant structures on a site in excess of one
acre for which a building permit has been issued by the city of Mitchell;
      2.   Agricultural use of land, including the construction of agricultural
structures;
      3.   Existing nursery and agricultural operation conducted as a permitted
main or accessory use;
      4.   Cemetery graves; or
      5.   Installation, renovation, or replacement of a septic system to serve
an existing dwelling or structure.
   C.   Application For Permit: Each application for a city site development
permit shall bear the names and addresses of the owner or developer of the
site, general contractor and any consulting firm retained by the applicant
together with the name of the applicant's principal contact at such firm and
shall be accompanied by a filing fee in the amount set forth in the city fee
schedule on file in the office of the finance director. Each application shall
include a statement that any land clearing, construction, or development
involving the movement of earth shall be in accordance with the stormwater
pollution prevention plan, approved plans and site development permit. The
public works/city engineering department shall be notified forty eight (48)
hours prior to construction or grading activities.
   D.   Submissions: Each application for a site development permit shall be
accompanied by the following information:
      1.   For all regulated sites, a vicinity map in sufficient detail to
enable easy location in the field of the site for which the permit is sought,
and including the boundary line and approximate acreage of the site, existing
zoning, and a legend and scale.
      2.   For sites with five thousand (5,000) square feet or more, but less
than one acre of disturbance:
         a.   A scale drawing of the site;
         b.   Erosion and sediment control measures (BMPs) to be implemented;
and
         c.   A sequence of site operations.
      3.   For sites one acre and greater in size:
         a.   A development plan of the site showing:
            (1)   Existing topography of the site and adjacent land within
approximately one hundred feet (100') of the boundaries, drawn at no greater
than two foot (2') contour intervals and clearly portraying the conformation
and drainage pattern of the area.
            (2)   The location of existing buildings, structures, utilities,
streams, lakes, floodplains, wetlands and depressions, drainage facilities,
vegetative cover, paved areas, and other significant natural or manmade
features on the site and adjacent land within one hundred feet (100') of the
boundary.
            (3)   A general description of the predominant soil types on the
site, their location, and their limitations for the proposed use.
            (4)   Proposed use of the site, including present development and
planned utilization; areas of clearing, stripping, grading, excavation, and
filling; proposed contours, finished grades, and street profiles; provisions
for storm drainage, including storm sewers, swales, detention basins and any
other measures to control the rate of runoff, with a drainage area map,
indications of flow directions, and computations; kinds and locations of
utilities; and areas and acreages proposed to be paved, covered, sodded or
seeded, vegetatively stabilized, or left undisturbed.
         b.   An erosion and sediment control plan showing all measures
necessary to meet the objectives of this article throughout all phases of
construction and permanently after completion of development of the site,
including:
            (1)   Location and description, including standard details, of all
sediment control measures and design specifics of sediment basins and traps,
including outlet details.
            (2)   Location and description of all soil stabilization and
erosion control measures, including seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod,
method of seedbed preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime
and fertilizer application, kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary
and permanent vegetative control measures, and types of nonvegetative
stabilization measures.
            (3)   Location and description of all runoff control measures,
including diversions, waterways, and outlets.
            (4)   Location and description of methods to prevent tracking of
sediment off site, including construction entrance details, as appropriate.
            (5)   Description of dust and traffic control measures.
            (6)   Locations of stockpiles and description of stabilization
methods.
            (7)   Description of off site fill or borrow volumes, locations,
and methods of stabilization.
            (8)   Provisions for maintenance of control measures, including
type and frequency of maintenance, easements, and estimates of the cost of
maintenance.
            (9)   Channel stabilization before, during and after any in
channel/adjacent to channel work.
            (10)   An army corps of engineers 404 permit, as well as any other
state or federal permits.
            (11)   Any other measures required by the authorized enforcement
agency to accomplish erosion and sediment control for the site.
            (12)   Identification (name, address, and telephone) of the person
(s) or entity which will have legal responsibility for maintenance of erosion
control structures and measures during development and after development is
completed.
         c.   The proposed phasing of development of the site, including
stripping and clearing, rough grading and construction, and final grading and
landscaping. Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing will
begin, the estimated duration of exposure of cleared areas, and the sequence of
installation of temporary sediment control measures (including perimeter
controls), clearing and grading, installation of temporary soil stabilization
measures, installation of storm drainage, paving streets and parking areas,
final grading and the establishment of permanent vegetative cover, and the
removal of temporary measures. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant
to notify the authorized enforcement agency of any significant changes which
occur in the site development schedule after the initial erosion and sediment
control plan has been approved.
      4.   The authorized enforcement agency may waive specific requirements
for the content of submissions upon finding that the information submitted is
sufficient to show that the work will comply with the objectives and principles
of this article.
   E.   Review And Approval: Each application for a site development permit
shall be reviewed and acted upon according to the following procedures:
      1.   The authorized enforcement agency or his or her designee will review
each application for a site development permit to determine its conformance
with the provisions of this article. The authorized enforcement agency may also
refer any application to any other local government or public agency within
whose jurisdiction the site is located for review and comment. After receiving
an application and completing a review of the site plans and permit documents,
the authorized enforcement agency shall, in writing:
         a.   Approve the permit application and issue the permit;
         b.   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
article, and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
         c.   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the deficiencies
and the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
      2.   No site development permit shall be issued for an intended
development site unless:
         a.   The development, including, but not limited to, subdivisions and
planned unit development, has been approved by the city of Mitchell where
applicable, or
         b.   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the city of Mitchell, or
         c.   The proposed earthmoving is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the city of Mitchell for the area in
which the site is situated; and
         d.   All relevant federal and state permits have been received for the
portion of the site subject to soil disturbance.
   F.   Expiration Of Permit: Every site development permit shall expire and
become null and void if the work authorized by such permit has not been
commenced within three hundred sixty (360) days, or is not completed by a date
which shall be specified in the permit; except that the authorized enforcement
agency may, if the permittee presents satisfactory evidence that unusual
difficulties have prevented work being commenced or completed within the
specified time limits, grant a reasonable extension of time if written
application is made before the expiration date of the permit. The authorized
enforcement agency may require modification of the erosion control plan to
prevent any increase in erosion or off site sediment runoff resulting from any
extension.
   G.   Appeals: The applicant, or any person or agency which received notice
of the filing of the application, may appeal the decision of the authorized
enforcement agency as provided in subsection E of this section, to the city
plan commission. The city plan commission shall render a decision within forty
five (45) days after receiving notice. Factors to be considered on review shall
include, but need not be limited to, the effects of the proposed development
activities on the surface water flow to tributary and downstream lands, any
comprehensive watershed management plans, or the use of any retention
facilities; possible saturation of fill and unsupported cuts by water, both
natural and domestic; runoff surface waters that produce erosion and silting of
drainageways; nature and type of soil or rock which when disturbed by the
proposed development activities may create earth movement and produce slopes
that cannot be landscaped; and excessive and unnecessary scarring of the
natural landscape through grading or removal of vegetation.
   H.   Retention Of Plans: A "for construction" set of plans, specifications,
and reports for all site developments shall be retained by the authorized
enforcement agency during construction operations.
   I.   Record Drawings: A "record drawing" set of plans, specifications, and
reports for all site developments shall be prepared by the developer
(applicant) upon completion of the development project. The record drawings
will need to be reviewed and approved by the authorized enforcement agency
prior to the acceptance of the development. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-8: DESIGN AND REQUIREMENTS:
Soil erosion and sediment control related measures are required to be
constructed and maintained for any land disturbance activity permitted under
section
8-9D-7 of this article. The following requirements shall be met:
   A.   Soil disturbance shall be conducted in such a manner as to minimize
erosion. Areas of the development site that are not to be graded shall be
protected from construction traffic or other disturbance until final seeding is
performed. Soil stabilization measures shall consider the time of year, site
conditions and the use of temporary or permanent measures.
   B.   Properties and channels adjoining development sites shall be protected
from erosion and sedimentation. At points where concentrated flow leaves a
development site, energy dissipation devices shall be placed at discharge
locations and along the length of any outfall channel as necessary to provide a
nonerosive velocity of flow from the structure to the watercourse so that the
natural physical and biological characteristics and functions are maintained
and protected.
   C.   Soil erosion and sediment control features shall be constructed prior
to the commencement of hydrologic disturbance of upland areas.
   D.   Disturbed areas shall be stabilized with temporary or permanent
measures within fourteen (14) calendar days following the end of active
hydrological disturbance, or redisturbance, consistent with the following
criteria or using an appropriate measure as approved by the authorized
enforcement agency.
      1.   Appropriate temporary or permanent stabilization measures shall
include seeding, mulching, sodding and/or nonvegetative measures.
      2.   Areas or embankments having slopes greater than or equal to 3H:1V
shall be stabilized with staked in place sod, mat or blanket in combination
with seeding.
      3.   Erosion control blanket shall be required on all interior detention
basin side slopes between normal water level and high water level.
      4.   The fourteen (14) day stabilization requirement may be precluded by
snow cover or where construction activity will resume within twenty one (21)
days from when the active hydrologic disturbance ceased, then stabilization
measures do not have to be initiated on that portion of the site by the
fourteenth day after construction activity temporarily ceased given that
portion of the site has appropriate soil erosion and sediment controls in
place.
   E.   Land disturbance activities in streams shall be avoided, where
possible. If disturbance activities are unavoidable, the following requirements
shall be met:
      1.   Where stream construction crossings are necessary, temporary
crossings shall be constructed of nonerosive material.
      2.   The time and area of disturbance of a stream shall be kept to a
minimum. The stream, including bed and banks, shall be restabilized within
forty eight (48) hours after channel disturbance is completed or interrupted.
   F.   Soil erosion and sediment control measures shall be appropriate with
regard to the amount of tributary drainage area as follows:
      1.   Disturbed areas draining greater than five thousand (5,000) square
feet but less than one acre shall, at a minimum, be protected by a filter
barrier (including filter fences, which at a minimum, meet the applicable
sections of the "AASHTO Standard Specification 288-00", or equivalent control
measures) to control all off site runoff.
Vegetated filter strips, with a minimum width of twenty five feet (25'), in the
direction of flow, may be used as an alternative only where sheet flow runoff
is expected.
      2.   Disturbed areas draining more than one acre but fewer than five (5)
acres shall, at a minimum, be protected by a sediment trap or equivalent
control measure at a point downslope of the disturbed area.
      3.   Disturbed areas draining more than five (5) acres, shall, at a
minimum, be protected by a sediment basin with a perforated filtered riser pipe
or equivalent control measures at a point downslope of the disturbed area.
      4.   Sediment basins shall have both a permanent pool (dead storage) and
additional volume (live storage) with each volume equal to the runoff amount of
a 2-inch precipitation event in a twenty four (24) hour period over the on site
hydrologically disturbed tributary drainage area to the sediment basin. The
available sediment volume below normal water level, in addition to the dead
storage volume shall be sized to store the estimated sediment load generated
from the site over the duration of the construction period. For construction
periods exceeding one year, the one year sediment load and a sediment removal
schedule may be submitted. If the detention basin for the proposed development
condition of the site is used for sediment basin, the above volume requirements
will be explicitly met. Until the site is finally stabilized, the basin
permanent pool of water shall meet the above volume requirements and have a
filtered perforated riser protecting the outflow pipe.
   G.   All storm sewers that are or will be functioning during construction
shall be protected by an appropriate sediment control measure.
   H.   With a DENR permit where dewatering services are used, adjoining
properties and discharge locations shall be protected from erosion. Discharges
shall be routed through an effective sediment control measure (e.g., sediment
trap, sediment basin or other appropriate measures).
   I.   All temporary soil erosion and sediment control measures shall be
removed within thirty (30) days after final site stabilization is achieved or
after the temporary measures are no longer needed. Trapped sediment and other
disturbed soil areas shall be permanently stabilized.
   J.   A stabilized mat of aggregate underlain with filter cloth (or other
appropriate measures) shall be located at any point where traffic will be
entering or leaving a construction site of a major development to or from a
public right of way, street, alley or parking area. Any sediment or soil
reaching an improved public right of way, street, alley or parking area shall
be removed by scraping or street cleaning as accumulations warrant and
transported to a controlled sediment disposal area. The authorized enforcement
agency may require additional stabilized construction entrance methods.
   K.   Earthen embankments shall be constructed with side slopes no steeper
than 3H:1V. Steeper slopes may be constructed with appropriate stabilization as
approved by the authorized enforcement agency.
   L.   Stormwater conveyance channels, including ditches, swales and
diversions, and the outlet of all channels and pipes shall be designed and
constructed to withstand the expected flow velocity from the 10-year frequency
storm without erosion. All constructed or modified channels shall be stabilized
within forty eight (48) hours.
   M.   Temporary diversions shall be constructed as necessary to direct all
runoff from hydrologically disturbed areas to the appropriate sediment trap or
basin.
   N.   Soil stockpiles shall not be located in a flood prone area or a
designated buffer protecting waters of the state. Soil stockpiles are defined
as having greater than one hundred (100) cubic yards of soil and will remain in
place for more than seven (7) days. Soil stockpile locations shall be shown on
the soil erosion and sediment control plan and shall have the appropriate
measures to prevent erosion of the stockpile.
   O.   Standards and specifications contained in the SDDOT "Manual On Erosion
And Sediment Control And Stormwater Management 2014", as amended, are
referenced in this article as guidance for presenting soil erosion and sediment
control plan specifications and delineating procedures and methods of operation
under site development for soil erosion and sediment control. In the event of
conflict between provisions of said manuals and this article, this article
shall govern.
   P.   The applicant shall provide adequate receptacles for the deposition of
all construction material debris generated during the development process. The
applicant shall not cause or permit the dumping, depositing, dropping,
throwing, discarding or leaving of construction material debris upon or into
any development site, channel, or waters of the U.S. The applicant shall
maintain the development site free of construction material debris. (Ord. 2496,
2-2-2015)
8-9D-9: MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES:
All temporary measures and permanent erosion and sediment control must be
maintained in an effective working condition as identified by required
inspections. This includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   A.   Repair, replace or maintain erosion and sediment control structures
after any singular or cumulative rainfall event(s).
   B.   Remove sediment from sedimentation ponds when the design capacity has
been reduced by fifty percent (50%) or more.
   C.   Remove sediment from silt fences and other sediment controls before the
deposit reaches the point at which fifty percent (50%) of the height of the
control is attained.
   D.   The erosion and sediment controls required for compliance with effluent
limits shall be maintained from the beginning of construction activity until
the final stabilization is completed and approved.
   E.   Make adjustments to the erosion and sediment control plan and methods,
as needed, to accomplish the intended purpose.
   F.   Any necessary repairs or corrective action to soil erosion and sediment
control measures shall be made prior to the next rainfall event or seven (7)
days, whichever is earlier. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-10: INSPECTION:
   A.   Construction plans for grading, stripping, excavating, and filling work
approved by the authorized enforcement agency (should be stamped "for
construction") shall be maintained at the site during the progress of the work.
The permittee shall make inspections and maintain on site records of such
inspections at the intervals specified below:
      1.   Upon completion of installation of sediment and runoff control
measures (including perimeter controls and diversions), prior to proceeding
with any other earth disturbance or grading.
      2.   After rough grading.
      3.   After final grading, and
      4.   Every seven (7) days and after each rainfall event of 0.5 inch or
more over a twenty four (24) hour period, or a snowmelt event that causes
surface erosion.
      5.   Once a site has been temporarily stabilized and construction has
ceased for the winter, such inspections shall be conducted at least once per
month.
   B.   The permittee shall maintain records of each inspection and resulting
maintenance activities, including:
      1.   Date and time of inspections;
      2.   Name(s) and title(s) of personnel conducting the inspections;
      3.   Area of inspections;
      4.   Corrective actions taken;
      5.   Dates and amount of all rainfall events greater than 0.5 inch in
twenty four (24) hours; and
      6.   Documentation of any changes made to the stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP).
   C.   Copies of the inspection records shall be submitted to the authorized
enforcement agency in a monthly inspection report. When an inspection does not
identify any incidents of noncompliance, the report shall contain a
certification that the site is in compliance with the SWPPP and the DENR
permit.
   D.   The SWPPP shall be revised if the site inspections identify any
noncompliance with the effluent limits. The changes shall be implemented at the
site within seven (7) calendar days following the inspection. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-
2015)
8-9D-11: NOTIFICATIONS:
   A.   To facilitate inspections by the authorized enforcement agency and to
ensure compliance with the approved erosion and sediment control plan, the
grading or building permit, and this article, the permittee shall notify the
authorized enforcement agency within two (2) working days of the completion of
the construction stages specified below:
      1.   Upon completion of installation of sediment and runoff control
(controls and diversions), prior to proceeding with any other earth disturbance
or grading,
      2.   After stripping and clearing,
      3.   After rough grading,
      4.   After final grading,
      5.   After seeding and landscaping deadlines, and
      6.   After final stabilization and landscaping, prior to removal of
sediment controls.
   B.   If stripping, clearing, grading and/or landscaping are to be done in
phases or areas, the permittee shall give notice at the completion of each of
the above work stages in each phase or area. For sites equal to and greater
than five thousand (5,000) square feet and less than one acre only subsections
A1, A3, and A6 of this section shall apply. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-12: SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   If at any stage of the grading of any development site the authorized
enforcement agency determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such
that further work authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any
property, public way, stream, lake, wetland, or drainage structure, the
authorized enforcement agency may require, as a condition of allowing the work
to be done, that such reasonable special precautions be taken as is considered
advisable to avoid the likelihood of such peril. "Special precautions" may
include, but shall not be limited to, a more level exposed slope, construction
of additional drainage facilities, berms, terracing, compaction, or cribbing,
installation of plant materials for erosion control, and/or
   B.   Recommendations of a registered soils engineer and/or engineering
geologist which may outline requirements for further work.
   C.   Where it appears that storm damage may occur due to incomplete grading
at site, work may be stopped and the permittee required to install temporary
structures or take such other measures as may be required to protect adjoining
property or the public safety. On large development or where unusual site
conditions prevail, the authorized enforcement agency may specify the start and
end dates for grading operations or may require that the operations be
conducted in specific stages so as to ensure completion of protective measures
or devices prior to the advent of seasonal rains. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-13: AMENDMENT OF PLANS:
Major amendments of the site development or erosion and sedimentation control
plans shall be submitted to the authorized enforcement agency and shall be
processed and approved or disapproved in the same manner as the original plans.
Field modifications of a minor nature may be authorized by the authorized
enforcement agency by written authorization to the permittee. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-
2015)
8-9D-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the city of Mitchell, South Dakota, or
other authorized enforcement agency finds that a person has violated a
prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this article, the authorized
enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person. Such notice may require without limitation:
      1.   The suspension and/or revocation of the site development permit;
      2.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution and the
restoration of any affected property;
      5.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      6.   The implementation of additional erosion and sediment control
measures or treatment BMPs.
If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-15: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
seven (7) days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal
before the appropriate authority or his/her designee shall take place within
twenty five (25) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The
decision of the municipal authority or their designee shall be final. (Ord.
2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-16: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within seven (7)
days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent, or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-17: COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION:
Within seven (7) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within seven (7) days. If the amount due is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by
the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become
a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment plus any legal fees to process the
lien. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become
liable to the city by reason of such violation. The liability shall be paid in
not more than twelve (12) equal payments. Interest at the rate of current
market value (percentage per annum) shall be assessed on the balance beginning
on the thirtieth day following discovery of the violation. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-
2015)
8-9D-18: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this article. If a person has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this article, the authorized enforcement
agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the
person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the
person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-
2015)
8-9D-19: COMPENSATORY ACTION:
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this
article, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-20: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
article is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-21: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
Any person that has violated or continues to violate this article shall be
liable to prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be subject to
a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day. (Ord. 2496,
2-2-2015)
8-9D-22: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 2496, 2-2-2015)
8-9D-23: ADOPTION OF ARTICLE:
This article shall be in full force and effect thirty (30) days after its final
passage, approval and publication in pamphlet form. All prior ordinances and
parts of ordinances in conflict with this article are hereby repealed. (Ord.
2496, 2-2-2015)
CHAPTER 10
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISES
SECTION:
8-10-1: Standard Cable Franchise Employed
8-10-1: STANDARD CABLE FRANCHISE EMPLOYED:
   A.   The city intends, by the adoption of a standard cable franchise, to
bring about the continued development and maintenance of one or more cable
systems. Such activity shall contribute significantly to the communication
needs and desires of many.
   B.   This standard cable franchise shall be codified as article A of this
chapter which shall be titled STANDARD CABLE FRANCHISE with such provisions and
sections as provided in this chapter.
   C.   All persons operating a cable system shall be required to first obtain
a cable franchise from the city of Mitchell, unless applicable federal or state
law shall prohibit such a requirement.
   D.   Each individual cable franchise granted in the city of Mitchell shall
be codified in its own article to this chapter and be titled after the company
to which the franchise is granted. All franchises granted shall substantially
conform to the standard cable franchise as codified under article A of this
chapter. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
ARTICLE A. STANDARD CABLE FRANCHISE
SECTION:
8-10A-1: Short Title And Definitions
8-10A-1-1: Short Title
8-10A-1-2: Definitions
8-10A-2: Grant Of Authority And General Provisions
8-10A-2-1: Franchise Required
8-10A-2-2: Grant Of Franchise
8-10A-2-3: Grant Of Nonexclusive Authority
8-10A-2-4: Franchise Term
8-10A-2-5: Territorial Area Involved
8-10A-2-6: Written Notice
8-10A-3: Application For New Franchise
8-10A-3-1: Written Application Requirements
8-10A-3-2: Review Of New Application
8-10A-4: Construction, Operations Standards And Conditions On Street Use
8-10A-5: System Provisions And Public Services
8-10A-5-1: Operation And Maintenance Of System
8-10A-5-2: PEG Channels
8-10A-5-3: Emergency Use
8-10A-5-4: Lockout Device
8-10A-5-5: City Cable Service
8-10A-6: Operation And Administration Provisions
8-10A-6-1: Indemnification Of Grantor
8-10A-6-2: Insurance
8-10A-6-3: Franchise Fee
8-10A-7: Revocation, Abandonment, Sale, Or Transfer
8-10A-7-1: Grantor's Right To Revoke
8-10A-7-2: Sale Or Transfer Of Franchise
8-10A-8: Miscellaneous Provisions
8-10A-8-1: Franchise Renewal
8-10A-8-2: Amendment Of Franchise
8-10A-8-3: Marketing
8-10A-8-4: Severability
8-10A-8-5: Supplemental Exhibits
8-10A-9: Publication And Effective Date
8-10A-10: Acceptance
8-10A-1: SHORT TITLE AND DEFINITIONS:
8-10A-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and cited as the [insert grantee name] television
franchise ordinance or as the [insert grantee name] franchise agreement. (Ord.
2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words in the singular number include the plural number. The
word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory. The word "may" is
directory and discretionary and not mandatory. [Note: This section may be
incorporated by reference in individual cable franchises.]
AFFILIATE: Any entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with
the entity in question.
APPLICANT: Shall mean and refer to a potential grantee seeking an initial grant
of a franchise and does not include a grantee seeking renewal of an existing
franchise.
BASIC CABLE SERVICE: Any service tier which includes the lawful retransmission
of local television broadcast signals and any public, educational, and
governmental access programming required by the franchise to be carried on the
basic tier. Basic cable service as defined herein shall not be inconsistent
with 47 USC section 543(b)(7).
CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE: Any video programming provided over a cable system,
regardless of service tier, other than:
Video programming carried on the basic service tier;
Video programming offered on a pay per channel or pay per program basis; or
A combination of multiple channels of pay per channel or pay per program video
programming offered on a multiplexed or time shifted basis so long as the
combined service consists of commonly identified video programming and is not
bundled with any regulated tier of service.
Cable programming service as defined herein shall not be inconsistent with the
definition as set forth in 47 USC section 543(l)(2) and 47 CFR 76.901(b)
(1993).
CABLE SERVICE: The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming, or
other programming service, and subscriber interaction, if any, which is
required for the selection of such video programming or other programming
service.
CABLE SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it under 47 USC
section 522(7).
CITY COUNCIL OR COUNCIL: The Mitchell, South Dakota city council.
COMMERCIAL SUBSCRIBER: A subscriber primarily utilizing cable services or a
grantee's cable system in connection with carrying on a business, whether for
profit or nonprofit.
DROP: The cable or wire that connects the distribution portion of a cable
system solely to a subscriber's premises; which shall typically be from a
subscriber's residence to the adjacent public way or easement usable for cable
purposes.
FRANCHISE: An initial authorization, or renewal thereof issued by a franchising
authority, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit,
license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement, or otherwise, which
authorizes the construction or operation of a cable system or other MVPD
facility.
FRANCHISE AREA: The area within the legal boundaries of the grantor as they now
or in the future exist.
GRANTEE: [Insert name of franchisee], its agents and employees, lawful
successors, transferees or assignees.
GRANTOR OR CITY: The city of Mitchell, South Dakota.
GROSS REVENUES: Shall refer, without limitation, to all revenues of any type
earned, accrued, or received by the grantee, net of bad debts, which are
derived from the operation of the cable system to provide cable services,
including, but not limited to, revenues directly received by the grantee or an
affiliate of the grantee in respect to cable services from subscribers or users
of the system for: a) basic cable services; b) additional tiers; c) premium
services; d) pay per view programming; e) electronic program guides; f)
installation, disconnection or service call fees; g) fees for the provision,
rental or lease of converters, remote controls, additional outlets and other
customer premises equipment; h) the use of leased access channels; i) other
fees collected by the grantee in respect to the provision of cable service; j)
the grantee's lease of any part of the cable system to a third party; k)
advertising revenues from the system; l) revenues received by grantee from home
shopping programming. The term "gross revenues" does not include taxes imposed
by any municipal, state, or other governmental unit.
LOW DENSITY AREA: Any area in the franchise area with less than five (5)
potential or actual subscribers per one-fourth (1/4) mile.
MULTICHANNEL VIDEO PROGRAM DISTRIBUTOR (OR MVPD): A person such as, but not
limited to, a cable operator, a multichannel multipoint distribution service, a
direct broadcast satellite service, an OVS provider, or a television receive
only satellite program distributor, who makes available for purchase, by
subscribers or customers, multiple channels of video programming.
OPEN VIDEO SERVICES OR OVS: Any video programming services provided to any
person by a grantee certified by the FCC to operate an open video system
pursuant to section 47 USC 573, as may be amended, regardless of the facilities
used.
PAY TELEVISION: The delivery over the system of pay per channel or pay per
program audio visual signals to subscribers for a fee or charge, in addition to
the charge for basic cable service or cable programming services.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or other legal entity.
RESIDENTIAL SUBSCRIBER: A subscriber utilizing cable services or a grantee's
cable system for personal or household use; not in connection with carrying on
a business.
STANDARD INSTALLATION: Any residential installation which can be completed
using a drop of one hundred fifty feet (150') or less.
STREET: The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street, road,
highway, freeway, lane, alley, path, court, sidewalk, parkway, or drive, or any
easement or right of way now or hereafter held by grantor.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person who lawfully receives cable service.
VIDEO PROGRAMMING: Programming provided by, or generally considered comparable
to programming provided by a television broadcast station. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-
2016)
8-10A-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS:
8-10A-2-1: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, operate, or maintain a cable
system or MVPD facility or to provide cable service, video programming, or
other MVPD services, including OVS, in the city of Mitchell, South Dakota,
without a franchise authorizing the same, unless applicable federal or state
law prohibits the grantor's enforcement of such a requirement. (Ord. 2548, 8-
15-2016)
8-10A-2-2: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
A franchise that is granted in the city shall be subject to the terms and
conditions contained in each individual franchise. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-2-3: GRANT OF NONEXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY:
   A.   A grantee shall have the right and privilege to construct, erect,
operate, and maintain, in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the
streets, public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated and all
extensions thereof, and additions thereto in franchise area, poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other television conductors and
fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation in franchise area of a
cable system.
   B.   A franchise shall be nonexclusive, and grantor reserves the right to
grant a similar use of said streets to other persons at any time, provided,
however, that all franchises shall contain substantially similar terms and
conditions as this franchise. In order that one person is not granted a
competitive advantage over another, in the event a person commences provision
of cable services without a franchise or is granted a franchise to provide
cable services by the grantor, the terms and conditions of which differ with
this franchise, grantee shall have the right either: 1) to opt into the
competitor's franchise by providing ten (10) days' prior written notice to the
grantor; or 2) to petition the grantor for modifications to its franchise, in
which case the grantor shall work in good faith with the affected grantee(s) to
review and adopt modifications which the grantee(s) deem necessary, review and
approval by grantor shall not be unreasonably denied.
   C.   Every franchise shall apply to the entire franchise area of the
grantor, as it exists now or may later be configured.
   D.   Neither city nor grantee(s) may unilaterally alter the material rights
and obligations set forth in this franchise. In the event of a conflict between
any other ordinance and this franchise, the franchise shall control. (Ord.
2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-2-4: FRANCHISE TERM:
Unless renewed, revoked, or terminated sooner as herein provided, a franchise
shall be in effect for a period of up to five (5) years from the effective date
of an individual franchise, with an automatic renewal term of up to an
additional five (5) years unless notice of nonrenewal is provided six (6)
months in advance of expiration. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-2-5: TERRITORIAL AREA INVOLVED:
   A.   Grantee shall provide cable services to any and all persons requesting
same at a location within the franchise area as such area boundaries may exist
from time to time. No line extension charge or comparable charge shall be
imposed on any current or potential subscriber when located within the
franchise area except as further provided by this section.
   B.   Grantee shall not be required to extend its lines or provide cable
service any sooner than electric utility service is available to the
subscriber's location. Grantee shall provide service to a requesting subscriber
within a reasonable amount of time which in no event shall exceed three (3)
months.
   C.   Grantee may choose either alternative C1 or alternative C2, relating to
line extensions in low density areas, which such choice shall be effective for
the entire franchise term. [Note: Alternative C1 or alternative C2 shall be
inserted in an individual franchise in place of this section.]
C1. Prior to providing service in Low Density Areas to Residential Subscribers,
a Grantee may require a Residential Subscriber to commit to an initial service
agreement of up to three (3) years, subject to the following restrictions:
1. A Grantee shall not require a Residential Subscriber to pay a line extension
charge or comparable charge as a condition precedent to the provision of
service.
2. An agreement shall not require a Residential Subscriber to maintain services
in excess of the stand-alone rate of Basic Cable Service. However, a
Residential Subscriber and Grantee are not restricted from agreeing on the
provision of additional services so long as Subscriber may cancel such
additional services.
3. An agreement shall be terminable by a Residential Subscriber at any time
upon reasonable notice. However, said agreement may contain a provision
requiring payment of a line extension charge that shall only be applicable if,
prior to the end of the three (3) year term, the Residential Subscriber
terminates service entirely or the Residential Subscriber reduces Subscriber's
services to a monthly rate less than the stand- alone rate of Basic Cable
Service.
4. Any such line extension charge shall be reasonable and shall be pro-rated
and reduced by the number of months the Residential Subscriber maintained
service and must take into consideration any subsequent development in the
area.
5. At the option of Subscriber, Subscriber may, as an alternative to signing an
initial service agreement, agree to pay a line extension charge.
6. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any existing or
potential Commercial Subscriber and, with a Commercial Subscriber, Grantee is
not prohibited from reaching agreements or charging a line extension charge
that would otherwise be prohibited with a Residential Subscriber.
C2. Grantee shall not require a Subscriber to pay a line extension charge or
comparable charge in Low Density Areas.
   D.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, a grantee may charge a
uniform standard installation fee. Grantee may also charge a drop fee for drops
exceeding the standard installation length of one hundred fifty feet (150') but
shall only charge for the incremental cost beyond one hundred fifty feet
(150'), which amount shall be reasonable. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-2-6: WRITTEN NOTICE:
All notices, reports, or demands required to be given in writing under this
article shall be deemed to be given when delivered personally to the party
listed below:
For city:
City Of Mitchell
c/o Finance Office
612 North Main Street
Mitchell, SD 57301
For grantee:
[Insert grantee address]
(Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-3: APPLICATION FOR NEW FRANCHISE:
This section and its subsections may be incorporated by reference in individual
cable franchises. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-3-1: WRITTEN APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
An application for an initial franchise to provide video programming shall be
in writing on a form provided by the city which shall contain where applicable:
   A.   Applicant name and business address of applicant.
   B.   A statement as to the proposed franchise area, and whether applicant
holds an existing authorization to access the rights of way in the city and a
map of the areas where such authorization exists if for an area other than the
entire city.
   C.   Resume of prior history of applicant, including the legal, technical,
and financial expertise of applicant in the cable service field, as well as a
list of any other municipalities or areas where applicant has provided cable
service or is so providing at the time of application.
   D.   List of officers, directors, and managing employees of applicant and
resumes of each.
   E.   A proposed construction schedule to provide cable service or video
programming to subscribers.
   F.   A certificate of insurance consistent with the requirements of this
article.
   G.   A description of the cable system the applicant intends to build,
including its capacity, the types of equipment proposed for use and the cable
services or video programming which will be offered.
   H.   A description of the financial qualifications of the applicant to
construct and operate the system including a balance sheet, income statement,
sources and uses of funds statement, and pro forma projections for at least
three (3) years of operation subsequent to system completion.
   I.   A proposed plan for public, educational, and government access
channels, including funding, facilities, and equipment and capacity on the
system to be dedicated for educational and governmental use. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-
2016)
8-10A-3-2: REVIEW OF NEW APPLICATION:
The initial franchise application may be evaluated according to the following
criteria, and approved within one hundred eighty (180) days after city deems
the application is complete. In the event applicant is already authorized to
occupy the rights of way, the time for review and approval will be ninety (90)
days.
   A.   The evidence of legal, technical, and financial ability required in the
applicant's proposal will be such as to assure the ability to complete the
entire system within a reasonable time from the date the franchise is granted.
The city will also consider the applicant's ability to operate the system and
provide the necessary cable services or video programming in compliance with
the terms of this article.
   B.   The city administrator or designee shall prepare a report and make his
or her recommendations respecting such application to the city council.
   C.   A public hearing shall be set prior to any grant of a franchise, at a
time and date approved by the city council. Within thirty (30) days after the
close of the hearing, the city council shall make a decision based upon the
evidence received at the hearing as to whether or not the franchise(s) should
be granted, and, if granted subject to what conditions, including those imposed
by South Dakota Codified Laws 9-35-3.
   D.   The city may consider any additional information that it deems
applicable. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-4: CONSTRUCTION, OPERATIONS STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS ON STREET USE:
   A.   A grantee shall obtain all required permits from grantor before
commencing any construction upgrade or extension of the system.
   B.   The grantee shall not be subject to permit fees except for any fees or
costs associated with repairs of streets or other infrastructure necessitated
by grantee's operations.
   C.   If, at any time during the period of this franchise, grantor shall
elect to alter, or change the grade or location of any street, alley, or other
public way, a grantee shall, at its own expense, upon reasonable notice by
grantor, remove and relocate its poles, wires, cables, conduits, manholes, and
other fixtures of the system. If grantor reimburses other occupants of the
street, a grantee shall be likewise reimbursed.
   D.   A grantee shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit
issued by grantor, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the moving
of buildings with the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by the
person requesting the same, and a grantee shall be given not less than ten (10)
days' advance notice to arrange for such temporary changes.
   E.   A grantee shall have the authority to trim vegetation or any trees upon
and overhanging the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public easements of grantor
so as to prevent such vegetation or trees from coming in contact with the wires
and cables of the grantee.
   F.   Nothing contained in this article shall relieve any person from
liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injuring grantee's system or facilities; nor shall grantee be so relieved of
liability arising out of its failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injury to any person's property.
   G.   In areas where all other utility lines are placed underground, grantee
shall construct and install its cables, wires and other facilities underground.
In any area where one or more public utilities are aerial, grantee may
construct and install its cables, wires and other facilities from the same pole
with the consent of the owner of the pole, subject to any future requirement of
city to have such aerial utilities placed underground.
   H.   A grantee shall at all times construct and operate its system in
accordance with applicable FCC technical specifications.
   I.   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued for
any reason, except for nonuse arising from discontinued service by a
subscriber, for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, or in the event such
systems or property has been installed in any street or public place without
complying with the requirements of this article, or the rights granted
hereunder have been terminated, canceled or have expired, grantee shall,
subject to the rights of the city to acquire the abandoned portions of the
system as specified in subsection J of this section, promptly remove from the
streets, or public places all such property and poles of such system other than
any which the city may permit to be abandoned in place. In the event of such
removal, grantee shall promptly restore the street or other area from which
such property has been removed to a condition satisfactory to the city.
   J.   Any property of grantee to be abandoned in place shall be abandoned in
such a manner as the city may prescribe. Upon permanent abandonment of the
property of grantee in place, it shall submit to the city an instrument to be
approved by the city, transferring to the city the ownership of such property.
   K.   All cable and passive equipment for reception of cable services
installed by grantee at a subscriber's location shall remain the property of
grantee and grantee shall have the right to remove said cable and equipment.
Upon termination of cable service to any subscriber, the grantee shall promptly
remove all its aboveground facilities and equipment from the premises of such
subscriber upon the subscriber's request.
   L.   No poles or other wire holding structures shall be erected by the
grantee without prior approval of the designated representative of the city
council with regard to locations, height, type, or any other pertinent aspect,
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. However, no locations of any
pole or wire holding structure of the grantee shall be a vested interest and
such poles or structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its own
expense whenever the city council or its designated representative determines
that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby.
   M.   Where poles or other wire holding structures already existing in use in
serving the city are available for use by grantee, but it does not make
arrangements for such use, the city council may require the grantee to use such
poles and structures if it determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available to the grantee are just and
reasonable.
   N.   Where the city or a public utility serving the city desires to make use
of poles or other wire holding structures of the grantee but agreement therefor
with the grantee cannot be reached, the city council may require the grantee to
permit such use for such consideration as is just and reasonable and upon such
terms as the council determines the use would enhance the public convenience
and would not unduly burden grantee or interfere with the grantee's operations.
   O.   Grantee shall at all times maintain on file with the city finance
office a schedule setting forth all rates and charges to be made to subscribers
for basic cable service, including installation charges.
   P.   During the term hereof, the city reserves the right to regulate rates
pursuant to federal law and federal communications commission ("FCC")
regulations and any such rate regulation shall not conflict with the provisions
of FCC regulations and federal law. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-5: SYSTEM PROVISIONS AND PUBLIC SERVICES:
8-10A-5-1: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM:
A grantee shall render effective cable service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt cable service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
(Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-5-2: PEG CHANNELS:
   A.   Grantee shall provide to its subscribers one public, educational, or
governmental ("PEG") channel administered by the city or its designee. Such PEG
channel shall only broadcast content originated by the city or its designee.
   B.   If the city deems it necessary, and upon reasonable notice, grantee
shall make available a second PEG channel to be utilized by city or a designee,
which shall also only broadcast content originated by the city or its designee.
   C.   City may require a technology grant from grantee to be used in or
associated with the construction of PEG access facilities. The terms of such
grant shall be included in exhibit 1 to this franchise. In accordance with FCC
rules and regulations, such grant is a capital cost and shall be excluded from
franchise fee calculation. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-5-3: EMERGENCY USE:
In the case of any emergency or disaster, a grantee shall, subject to federal
law, upon request of the city council, make available its system to the city
for emergency use. A grantee shall comply with the emergency alert requirements
of federal law. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-5-4: LOCKOUT DEVICE:
Upon the request of a subscriber, grantee shall provide by sale or lease a
lockout device which inhibits video programming or portions of video
programming delivered by the cable system. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-5-5: CITY CABLE SERVICE:
Grantee agrees to provide free basic cable services to a central location at up
to fifteen (15) buildings designated by city. Such basic cable services shall
not be calculated against the franchise fee. This section of the franchise is a
material term of the contract, however, its inclusion is not mandated by city
as a condition precedent to the grant of an individual franchise. Grantee
understands that federal law allows for the amount of the benefit of free basic
cable services to be calculated against the franchise fee and grantee
specifically waives such right. Locations designated by the city shall be
listed in exhibit 2 to this franchise. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-6: OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS:
8-10A-6-1: INDEMNIFICATION OF GRANTOR:
   A.   A grantee shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless grantor, its
officers, boards, committees, commissions, elected officials, employees, and
agents, from and against all liability, damages, and penalties which they may
legally be required to pay as a result of the exercise of a franchise granted
pursuant to this article, except claims covered by workers' compensation
insurance or any claims arising from or related to grantor's negligence.
Nothing in this article relieves a person from liability arising out of the
failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring the grantee's system or
facilities while performing work connected with grading, regrading, or changing
the line of a street or public place or with the construction or reconstruction
of a sewer or water system.
   B.   In order for grantor to assert its rights to be indemnified, defended,
and held harmless, grantor must with respect to each claim:
      1.   Promptly notify a grantee in writing of any claim or legal
proceeding which gives rise to such right;
      2.   Afford grantee the opportunity to participate in and fully control
any compromise, settlement, or other resolution or disposition of any claim or
proceeding; and
      3.   Fully cooperate with reasonable requests of grantee, at grantee's
expense, in its participation in, and control, compromise, settlement or
resolution or other disposition of such claim or proceeding subject to
subsection B2 of this section. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-6-2: INSURANCE:
A grantee shall maintain in full force and effect at its sole expense, a
comprehensive general liability insurance policy, including contractual
liability coverage, in protection of grantor in its capacity as such. The
policies of insurance shall be in the sum of not less than three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for personal injury or death of any one person,
and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury or death of two (2)
or more persons in any one occurrence, three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for property damage to any one person and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for property damage resulting from any one act or occurrence,
which amounts may be modified by city from time to time in its sole discretion
to be exercised in good faith. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-6-3: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   A grantee will pay grantor a monthly franchise fee in the amount of
five percent (5%) of grantee's gross revenues.
   B.   The franchise fee shall be payable monthly, together with a brief
report showing the basis for the computation, such report to be held
confidential and exempt from public records disclosure requirements pursuant to
South Dakota Codified Laws 1-27-1.5(3) as containing trade secrets and other
proprietary or commercial information which if released would infringe
intellectual property rights or give advantage to business competitors.
   C.   Grantor shall be limited to a period of limitation for recovery of any
franchise fee payable hereunder of five (5) years. However, grantee shall be
liable for interest, at the judicial rate, on any late payments from the date
of the payment missed. Such limitation shall not apply in cases of fraud.
Grantor may request a review of records relating to the franchise fee and
grantee shall accommodate all reasonable requests to review such records. In
the event such review reveals a discrepancy of more than five percent (5%),
grantee shall be responsible for reimbursing the reasonable cost of such review
to grantor in addition to the deficiency amount plus interest at the judicial
rate. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-7: REVOCATION, ABANDONMENT, SALE, OR TRANSFER:
8-10A-7-1: GRANTOR'S RIGHT TO REVOKE:
Grantor reserves the right to revoke, terminate, or cancel a franchise, if
after strictly following the procedures required below, it is determined that a
grantee has violated any material provision of its franchise or this article
and has failed to substantially cure said violation. Such revocation procedures
include, in their entirety:
   A.   Grantor shall provide a grantee with written notice of a cause for
revocation, including facts establishing the basis of revocation, and the
intent to revoke and shall allow grantee thirty (30) days subsequent to receipt
of the notice in which to substantially cure the violation or to provide
adequate assurance of performance.
   B.   Grantee shall be provided the right to a public hearing affording due
process before the city council prior to revocation, which public hearing shall
follow the thirty (30) day notice period to cure the violation. Grantor shall
provide grantee with written notice of its decision together with written
findings of fact supplementing said decision.
   C.   After the public hearing and upon written determination by grantor to
revoke the franchise, grantee may appeal said decision with an appropriate
state or federal court or agency.
   D.   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force and
effect unless the term thereof sooner expires.
   E.   Upon satisfactory correction by grantee of the violation upon which
said notice was given, the initial notice shall become void. If violations
reoccur for substantially similar reasons, the notice period may be reduced by
the number of days previously spent in violation for any substantially similar
prior violations. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-7-2: SALE OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE:
No sale or transfer of a franchise shall take place without the grantor's
amendment of grantee's individual franchise ordinance, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld. Upon such amendment, all of the rights, privileges,
obligations, duties, and liabilities created by this franchise shall pass to
and be binding upon the successor or assignee of a grantee. No approval shall
be required where a grantee grants a security interest in its franchise and
assets to secure indebtedness. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-8: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
8-10A-8-1: FRANCHISE RENEWAL:
Any renewal of a franchise shall be done in accordance with applicable federal
law. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-8-2: AMENDMENT OF FRANCHISE:
A grantee and grantor may agree, from time to time, to amend a franchise. Such
written amendments may be made at any time, subject to applicable law. (Ord.
2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-8-3: MARKETING:
A grantee shall have the right to conduct direct selling in the franchise area,
including door to door sales, subject to any peddler or solicitor ordinance.
(Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-8-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this franchise is for any reason
held to be invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by a decision of any
authority or court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this franchise and the remainder
shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-8-5: SUPPLEMENTAL EXHIBITS:
Supplemental exhibits to an individual franchise shall have full force and
effect but may or may not be codified. A supplemental exhibit shall be for the
purpose of complementing, clarifying, or otherwise augmenting a term of the
standard cable franchise but in no event shall a supplemental exhibit place a
grantee at an undue competitive disadvantage. As exhibit 1 and exhibit 2 are
specifically referred to in this franchise, neither exhibit 1 nor exhibit 2
shall be required to be individually executed by the city or grantee. Future
exhibits shall be individually executed by the city and grantee before they
take effect. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-9: PUBLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE:
A franchise shall become effective twenty (20) days after its adoption and
publication if not referred, all pursuant to state law. Once effective, the
franchise will be deemed to have been in effect as of [insert chosen date].
(Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
8-10A-10: ACCEPTANCE:
   A.   Grantee shall accept an individual franchise by executing the same.
Such acceptance by the grantee shall be deemed the grant of an individual
franchise for all purposes. With its acceptance, grantee shall also deliver any
insurance certificates required herein that have not been previously delivered.
   B.   Upon acceptance of an individual franchise, grantee shall be bound by
all the terms and conditions contained herein.
   C.   Grantee warrants that it is an equal opportunity/affirmative action
employer. (Ord. 2548, 8-15-2016)
ARTICLE B. TELECOM FRANCHISE AGREEMENT
SECTION:
8-10B-1: Short Title And Definitions
8-10B-1-1: Short Title
8-10B-1-2: Definitions
8-10B-2: Grant Of Authority And General Provisions
8-10B-2-1: Franchise Required
8-10B-2-2: Grant Of Franchise
8-10B-2-3: Grant Of Nonexclusive Authority
8-10B-2-4: Franchise Term
8-10B-2-5: Territorial Area Involved
8-10B-2-6: Written Notice
8-10B-3: Application For New Franchise
8-10B-4: Construction, Operations Standards And Conditions On Street Use
8-10B-5: System Provisions And Public Services
8-10B-5-1: Operation And Maintenance Of System
8-10B-5-2: PEG Channels
8-10B-5-3: Emergency Use
8-10B-5-4: Lockout Device
8-10B-5-5: City Cable Service
8-10B-6: Operation And Administration Provisions
8-10B-6-1: Indemnification Of Grantor
8-10B-6-2: Insurance
8-10B-6-3: Franchise Fee
8-10B-7: Revocation, Abandonment, Sale, Or Transfer
8-10B-7-1: Grantor's Right To Revoke
8-10B-7-2: Sale Or Transfer Of Franchise
8-10B-8: Miscellaneous Provisions
8-10B-8-1: Franchise Renewal
8-10B-8-2: Amendment Of Franchise
8-10B-8-3: Marketing
8-10B-8-4: Severability
8-10B-8-5: Supplemental Exhibits
8-10B-9: Publication And Effective Date
8-10B-10: Acceptance
8-10B-1: SHORT TITLE AND DEFINITIONS:
8-10B-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and cited as the MITCHELL TELECOM TELEVISION
FRANCHISE ORDINANCE or as the MITCHELL TELECOM FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. (Ord. 2549,
8-15-2016)
8-10B-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
This franchise hereby incorporates by reference the definitions contained in
Mitchell's standard cable franchise as codified in section
8-10A-1-2 of this chapter; except as hereafter modified:
GRANTEE: ATV Holdings, LLC, doing business as Mitchell Telecom, its agents and
employees, lawful successors, transferees or assignees. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS:
8-10B-2-1: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, operate, or maintain a cable
system or MVPD facility or to provide cable service, video programming, or
other MVPD services, including OVS, in the city of Mitchell, South Dakota,
without a franchise authorizing the same, unless applicable federal or state
law prohibits the grantor's enforcement of such a requirement. (Ord. 2549, 8-
15-2016)
8-10B-2-2: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
A franchise that is granted in the city shall be subject to the terms and
conditions contained in each individual franchise. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-2-3: GRANT OF NONEXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY:
   A.   A grantee shall have the right and privilege to construct, erect,
operate, and maintain, in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the
streets, public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated and all
extensions thereof, and additions thereto in franchise area, poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other television conductors and
fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation in franchise area of a
cable system.
   B.   A franchise shall be nonexclusive, and grantor reserves the right to
grant a similar use of said streets to other persons at any time, provided,
however, that all franchises shall contain substantially similar terms and
conditions as this franchise. In order that one person is not granted a
competitive advantage over another, in the event a person commences provision
of cable services without a franchise or is granted a franchise to provide
cable services by the grantor, the terms and conditions of which differ with
this franchise, grantee shall have the right either: 1) to opt into the
competitor's franchise by providing ten (10) days' prior written notice to the
grantor; or 2) to petition the grantor for modifications to its franchise, in
which case the grantor shall work in good faith with the affected grantee(s) to
review and adopt modifications which the grantee(s) deem necessary, review and
approval by grantor shall not be unreasonably denied.
   C.   Every franchise shall apply to the entire franchise area of the
grantor, as it exists now or may later be configured.
   D.   Neither city nor grantee(s) may unilaterally alter the material rights
and obligations set forth in this franchise. In the event of a conflict between
any other ordinance and this franchise, the franchise shall control. (Ord.
2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-2-4: FRANCHISE TERM:
Unless renewed, revoked, or terminated sooner as herein provided, a franchise
shall be in effect for a period of up to five (5) years from the effective date
of an individual franchise, with an automatic renewal term of up to an
additional five (5) years unless notice of nonrenewal is provided six (6)
months in advance of expiration. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-2-5: TERRITORIAL AREA INVOLVED:
   A.   Grantee shall provide cable services to any and all persons requesting
same at a location within the franchise area as such area boundaries may exist
from time to time. No line extension charge or comparable charge shall be
imposed on any current or potential subscriber when located within the
franchise area except as further provided by this section.
   B.   Grantee shall not be required to extend its lines or provide cable
service any sooner than electric utility service is available to the
subscriber's location. Grantee shall provide service to a requesting subscriber
within a reasonable amount of time which in no event shall exceed three (3)
months.
   C.   Prior to providing service in low density areas to residential
subscribers, a grantee may require a residential subscriber to commit to an
initial service agreement of up to three (3) years, subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   A grantee shall not require a residential subscriber to pay a line
extension charge or comparable charge as a condition precedent to the provision
of service.
      2.   An agreement shall not require a residential subscriber to maintain
services in excess of the stand alone rate of basic cable service. However, a
residential subscriber and grantee are not restricted from agreeing on the
provision of additional services so long as subscriber may cancel such
additional services.
      3.   An agreement shall be terminable by a residential subscriber at any
time upon reasonable notice. However, said agreement may contain a provision
requiring payment of a line extension charge that shall only be applicable if,
prior to the end of the three (3) year term, the residential subscriber
terminates service entirely or the residential subscriber reduces subscriber's
services to a monthly rate less than the stand alone rate of basic cable
service.
      4.   Any such line extension charge shall be reasonable and shall be
prorated and reduced by the number of months the residential subscriber
maintained service and must take into consideration any subsequent development
in the area.
      5.   At the option of subscriber, subscriber may, as an alternative to
signing an initial service agreement, agree to pay a line extension charge.
      6.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any existing or
potential commercial subscriber and, with a commercial subscriber, grantee is
not prohibited from reaching agreements or charging a line extension charge
that would otherwise be prohibited with a residential subscriber.
   D.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, a grantee may charge a
uniform standard installation fee. Grantee may also charge a drop fee for drops
exceeding the standard installation length of one hundred fifty feet (150') but
shall only charge for the incremental cost beyond one hundred fifty feet
(150'), which amount shall be reasonable. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-2-6: WRITTEN NOTICE:
All notices, reports, or demands required to be given in writing under this
article shall be deemed to be given when delivered personally to the party
listed below:
For city:
City Of Mitchell
c/o Finance Office
612 North Main Street
Mitchell, SD 57301
For grantee:
ATV Holdings, LLC
c/o TrioTel Communications, Inc.
P.O. Box 630
330 S. Nebraska St.
Salem, SD 57058
(Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-3: APPLICATION FOR NEW FRANCHISE:
Section
8-10A-3 of this chapter and its subsections are hereby incorporated by
reference. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-4: CONSTRUCTION, OPERATIONS STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS ON STREET USE:
   A.   A grantee shall obtain all required permits from grantor before
commencing any construction upgrade or extension of the system.
   B.   The grantee shall not be subject to permit fees except for any fees or
costs associated with repairs of streets or other infrastructure necessitated
by grantee's operations.
   C.   If, at any time during the period of this franchise, grantor shall
elect to alter, or change the grade or location of any street, alley, or other
public way, a grantee shall, at its own expense, upon reasonable notice by
grantor, remove and relocate its poles, wires, cables, conduits, manholes, and
other fixtures of the system. If grantor reimburses other occupants of the
street, a grantee shall be likewise reimbursed.
   D.   A grantee shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit
issued by grantor, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the moving
of buildings with the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by the
person requesting the same, and a grantee shall be given not less than ten (10)
days' advance notice to arrange for such temporary changes.
   E.   A grantee shall have the authority to trim vegetation or any trees upon
and overhanging the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public easements of grantor
so as to prevent such vegetation or trees from coming in contact with the wires
and cables of the grantee.
   F.   Nothing contained in this article shall relieve any person from
liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injuring grantee's system or facilities; nor shall grantee be so relieved of
liability arising out of its failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injury to any person's property.
   G.   In areas where all other utility lines are placed underground, grantee
shall construct and install its cables, wires and other facilities underground.
In any area where one or more public utilities are aerial, grantee may
construct and install its cables, wires and other facilities from the same pole
with the consent of the owner of the pole, subject to any future requirement of
city to have such aerial utilities placed underground.
   H.   A grantee shall at all times construct and operate its system in
accordance with applicable FCC technical specifications.
   I.   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued for
any reason, except for nonuse arising from discontinued service by a
subscriber, for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, or in the event such
systems or property has been installed in any street or public place without
complying with the requirements of this article, or the rights granted
hereunder have been terminated, canceled or have expired, grantee shall,
subject to the rights of the city to acquire the abandoned portions of the
system as specified in subsection J of this section, promptly remove from the
streets, or public places all such property and poles of such system other than
any which the city may permit to be abandoned in place. In the event of such
removal, grantee shall promptly restore the street or other area from which
such property has been removed to a condition satisfactory to the city.
   J.   Any property of grantee to be abandoned in place shall be abandoned in
such a manner as the city may prescribe. Upon permanent abandonment of the
property of grantee in place, it shall submit to the city an instrument to be
approved by the city, transferring to the city the ownership of such property.
   K.   All cable and passive equipment for reception of cable services
installed by grantee at a subscriber's location shall remain the property of
grantee and grantee shall have the right to remove said cable and equipment.
Upon termination of cable service to any subscriber, the grantee shall promptly
remove all its aboveground facilities and equipment from the premises of such
subscriber upon the subscriber's request.
   L.   No poles or other wire holding structures shall be erected by the
grantee without prior approval of the designated representative of the city
council with regard to locations, height, type, or any other pertinent aspect,
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. However, no locations of any
pole or wire holding structure of the grantee shall be a vested interest and
such poles or structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its own
expense whenever the city council or its designated representative determines
that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby.
   M.   Where poles or other wire holding structures already existing in use in
serving the city are available for use by grantee, but it does not make
arrangements for such use, the city council may require the grantee to use such
poles and structures if it determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available to the grantee are just and
reasonable.
   N.   Where the city or a public utility serving the city desires to make use
of poles or other wire holding structures of the grantee but agreement therefor
with the grantee cannot be reached, the city council may require the grantee to
permit such use for such consideration as is just and reasonable and upon such
terms as the council determines the use would enhance the public convenience
and would not unduly burden grantee or interfere with the grantee's operations.
   O.   Grantee shall at all times maintain on file with the city finance
office a schedule setting forth all rates and charges to be made to subscribers
for basic cable service, including installation charges.
   P.   During the term hereof, the city reserves the right to regulate rates
pursuant to federal law and federal communications commission ("FCC")
regulations and any such rate regulation shall not conflict with the provisions
of FCC regulations and federal law. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-5: SYSTEM PROVISIONS AND PUBLIC SERVICES:
8-10B-5-1: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM:
A grantee shall render effective cable service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt cable service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
(Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-5-2: PEG CHANNELS:
   A.   Grantee shall provide to its subscribers one public, educational, or
governmental ("PEG") channel administered by the city or its designee. Such PEG
channel shall only broadcast content originated by the city or its designee.
   B.   If the city deems it necessary, and upon reasonable notice, grantee
shall make available a second PEG channel to be utilized by city or a designee,
which shall also only broadcast content originated by the city or its designee.
   C.   City may require a technology grant from grantee to be used in or
associated with the construction of PEG access facilities. The terms of such
grant shall be included in exhibit 1 to this franchise. In accordance with FCC
rules and regulations, such grant is a capital cost and shall be excluded from
franchise fee calculation. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-5-3: EMERGENCY USE:
In the case of any emergency or disaster, a grantee shall, subject to federal
law, upon request of the city council, make available its system to the city
for emergency use. A grantee shall comply with the emergency alert requirements
of federal law. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-5-4: LOCKOUT DEVICE:
Upon the request of a subscriber, grantee shall provide by sale or lease a
lockout device which inhibits video programming or portions of video
programming delivered by the cable system. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-5-5: CITY CABLE SERVICE:
Grantee agrees to provide free basic cable services to a central location at up
to fifteen (15) buildings designated by city. Such basic cable services shall
not be calculated against the franchise fee. This section of the franchise is a
material term of the contract, however, its inclusion is not mandated by city
as a condition precedent to the grant of an individual franchise. Grantee
understands that federal law allows for the amount of the benefit of free basic
cable services to be calculated against the franchise fee and grantee
specifically waives such right. Locations designated by the city shall be
listed in exhibit 2 to this franchise. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-6: OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS:
8-10B-6-1: INDEMNIFICATION OF GRANTOR:
   A.   A grantee shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless grantor, its
officers, boards, committees, commissions, elected officials, employees, and
agents, from and against all liability, damages, and penalties which they may
legally be required to pay as a result of the exercise of a franchise granted
pursuant to this article, except claims covered by workers' compensation
insurance or any claims arising from or related to grantor's negligence.
Nothing in this article relieves a person from liability arising out of the
failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring the grantee's system or
facilities while performing work connected with grading, regrading, or changing
the line of a street or public place or with the construction or reconstruction
of a sewer or water system.
   B.   In order for grantor to assert its rights to be indemnified, defended,
and held harmless, grantor must with respect to each claim:
      1.   Promptly notify a grantee in writing of any claim or legal
proceeding which gives rise to such right;
      2.   Afford grantee the opportunity to participate in and fully control
any compromise, settlement, or other resolution or disposition of any claim or
proceeding; and
      3.   Fully cooperate with reasonable requests of grantee, at grantee's
expense, in its participation in, and control, compromise, settlement or
resolution or other disposition of such claim or proceeding subject to
subsection B2 of this section. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-6-2: INSURANCE:
A grantee shall maintain in full force and effect at its sole expense, a
comprehensive general liability insurance policy, including contractual
liability coverage, in protection of grantor in its capacity as such. The
policies of insurance shall be in the sum of not less than three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for personal injury or death of any one person,
and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury or death of two (2)
or more persons in any one occurrence, three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for property damage to any one person and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for property damage resulting from any one act or occurrence,
which amounts may be modified by city from time to time in its sole discretion
to be exercised in good faith. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-6-3: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   A grantee will pay grantor a monthly franchise fee in the amount of
five percent (5%) of grantee's gross revenues.
   B.   The franchise fee shall be payable monthly, together with a brief
report showing the basis for the computation, such report to be held
confidential and exempt from public records disclosure requirements pursuant to
South Dakota Codified Laws 1-27-1.5(3) as containing trade secrets and other
proprietary or commercial information which if released would infringe
intellectual property rights or give advantage to business competitors.
   C.   Grantor shall be limited to a period of limitation for recovery of any
franchise fee payable hereunder of five (5) years. However, grantee shall be
liable for interest, at the judicial rate, on any late payments from the date
of the payment missed. Such limitation shall not apply in cases of fraud.
Grantor may request a review of records relating to the franchise fee and
grantee shall accommodate all reasonable requests to review such records. In
the event such review reveals a discrepancy of more than five percent (5%),
grantee shall be responsible for reimbursing the reasonable cost of such review
to grantor in addition to the deficiency amount plus interest at the judicial
rate. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-7: REVOCATION, ABANDONMENT, SALE, OR TRANSFER:
8-10B-7-1: GRANTOR'S RIGHT TO REVOKE:
Grantor reserves the right to revoke, terminate, or cancel a franchise, if
after strictly following the procedures required below, it is determined that a
grantee has violated any material provision of its franchise or this article
and has failed to substantially cure said violation. Such revocation procedures
include, in their entirety:
   A.   Grantor shall provide a grantee with written notice of a cause for
revocation, including facts establishing the basis of revocation, and the
intent to revoke and shall allow grantee thirty (30) days subsequent to receipt
of the notice in which to substantially cure the violation or to provide
adequate assurance of performance.
   B.   Grantee shall be provided the right to a public hearing affording due
process before the city council prior to revocation, which public hearing shall
follow the thirty (30) day notice period to cure the violation. Grantor shall
provide grantee with written notice of its decision together with written
findings of fact supplementing said decision.
   C.   After the public hearing and upon written determination by grantor to
revoke the franchise, grantee may appeal said decision with an appropriate
state or federal court or agency.
   D.   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force and
effect unless the term thereof sooner expires.
   E.   Upon satisfactory correction by grantee of the violation upon which
said notice was given, the initial notice shall become void. If violations
reoccur for substantially similar reasons, the notice period may be reduced by
the number of days previously spent in violation for any substantially similar
prior violations. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-7-2: SALE OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE:
No sale or transfer of a franchise shall take place without the grantor's
amendment of grantee's individual franchise ordinance, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld. Upon such amendment, all of the rights, privileges,
obligations, duties, and liabilities created by this franchise shall pass to
and be binding upon the successor or assignee of a grantee. No approval shall
be required where a grantee grants a security interest in its franchise and
assets to secure indebtedness. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-8: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
8-10B-8-1: FRANCHISE RENEWAL:
Any renewal of a franchise shall be done in accordance with applicable federal
law. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-8-2: AMENDMENT OF FRANCHISE:
A grantee and grantor may agree, from time to time, to amend a franchise. Such
written amendments may be made at any time, subject to applicable law. (Ord.
2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-8-3: MARKETING:
A grantee shall have the right to conduct direct selling in the franchise area,
including door to door sales, subject to any peddler or solicitor ordinance.
(Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-8-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this franchise is for any reason
held to be invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by a decision of any
authority or court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this franchise and the remainder
shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-8-5: SUPPLEMENTAL EXHIBITS:
Supplemental exhibits to an individual franchise shall have full force and
effect but may or may not be codified. A supplemental exhibit shall be for the
purpose of complementing, clarifying, or otherwise augmenting a term of the
standard cable franchise but in no event shall a supplemental exhibit place a
grantee at an undue competitive disadvantage. As exhibit 1 and exhibit 2 are
specifically referred to in this franchise, neither exhibit 1 nor exhibit 2
shall be required to be individually executed by the city or grantee. Future
exhibits shall be individually executed by the city and grantee before they
take effect. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-9: PUBLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE:
A franchise shall become effective twenty (20) days after its adoption and
publication if not referred, all pursuant to state law. Once effective, the
franchise will be deemed to have been in effect as of September 18, 2016. (Ord.
2549, 8-15-2016)
8-10B-10: ACCEPTANCE:
   A.   Grantee shall accept an individual franchise by executing the same.
Such acceptance by the grantee shall be deemed the grant of an individual
franchise for all purposes. With its acceptance, grantee shall also deliver any
insurance certificates required herein that have not been previously delivered.
   B.   Upon acceptance of an individual franchise, grantee shall be bound by
all the terms and conditions contained herein.
   C.   Grantee warrants that it is an equal opportunity/affirmative action
employer. (Ord. 2549, 8-15-2016)
ARTICLE C. MIDCO FRANCHISE AGREEMENT
SECTION:
8-10C-1: Short Title And Definitions
8-10C-1-1: Short Title
8-10C-1-2: Definitions
8-10C-2: Grant Of Authority And General Provisions
8-10C-2-1: Franchise Required
8-10C-2-2: Grant Of Franchise
8-10C-2-3: Grant Of Nonexclusive Authority
8-10C-2-4: Franchise Term
8-10C-2-5: Territorial Area Involved
8-10C-2-6: Written Notice
8-10C-3: Application For New Franchise
8-10C-4: Construction, Operations Standards And Conditions On Street Use
8-10C-5: System Provisions And Public Services
8-10C-5-1: Operation And Maintenance Of System
8-10C-5-2: PEG Channels
8-10C-5-3: Emergency Use
8-10C-5-4: Lockout Device
8-10C-5-5: City Cable Service
8-10C-6: Operation And Administration Provisions
8-10C-6-1: Indemnification Of Grantor
8-10C-6-2: Insurance
8-10C-6-3: Franchise Fee
8-10C-7: Revocation, Abandonment, Sale, Or Transfer
8-10C-7-1: Grantor's Right To Revoke
8-10C-7-2: Sale Or Transfer Of Franchise
8-10C-8: Miscellaneous Provisions
8-10C-8-1: Franchise Renewal
8-10C-8-2: Amendment Of Franchise
8-10C-8-3: Marketing
8-10C-8-4: Severability
8-10C-8-5: Supplemental Exhibits
8-10C-9: Publication And Effective Date
8-10C-10: Acceptance
8-10C-1: SHORT TITLE AND DEFINITIONS:
8-10C-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known and cited as the MIDCO TELEVISION FRANCHISE
ORDINANCE or as the MIDCO FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
This franchise hereby incorporates by reference the definitions contained in
Mitchell's standard cable franchise as codified in section
8-10A-1-2 of this chapter; except as hereafter modified:
GRANTEE: Midcontinent Communications, doing business as Midco, its agents and
employees, lawful successors, transferees or assignees. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS:
8-10C-2-1: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, operate, or maintain a cable
system or MVPD facility or to provide cable service, video programming, or
other MVPD services, including OVS, in the city of Mitchell, South Dakota,
without a franchise authorizing the same, unless applicable federal or state
law prohibits the grantor's enforcement of such a requirement. (Ord. 2550, 8-
15-2016)
8-10C-2-2: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
A franchise that is granted in the city shall be subject to the terms and
conditions contained in each individual franchise. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-2-3: GRANT OF NONEXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY:
   A.   A grantee shall have the right and privilege to construct, erect,
operate, and maintain, in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the
streets, public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated and all
extensions thereof, and additions thereto in franchise area, poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other television conductors and
fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation in franchise area of a
cable system.
   B.   A franchise shall be nonexclusive, and grantor reserves the right to
grant a similar use of said streets to other persons at any time, provided,
however, that all franchises shall contain substantially similar terms and
conditions as this franchise. In order that one person is not granted a
competitive advantage over another, in the event a person commences provision
of cable services without a franchise or is granted a franchise to provide
cable services by the grantor, the terms and conditions of which differ with
this franchise, grantee shall have the right either: 1) to opt into the
competitor's franchise by providing ten (10) days' prior written notice to the
grantor; or 2) to petition the grantor for modifications to its franchise, in
which case the grantor shall work in good faith with the affected grantee(s) to
review and adopt modifications which the grantee(s) deem necessary, review and
approval by grantor shall not be unreasonably denied.
   C.   Every franchise shall apply to the entire franchise area of the
grantor, as it exists now or may later be configured.
   D.   Neither city nor grantee(s) may unilaterally alter the material rights
and obligations set forth in this franchise. In the event of a conflict between
any other ordinance and this franchise, the franchise shall control. (Ord.
2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-2-4: FRANCHISE TERM:
Unless renewed, revoked, or terminated sooner as herein provided, a franchise
shall be in effect for a period of up to five (5) years from the effective date
of an individual franchise, with an automatic renewal term of up to an
additional five (5) years unless notice of nonrenewal is provided six (6)
months in advance of expiration. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-2-5: TERRITORIAL AREA INVOLVED:
   A.   Grantee shall provide cable services to any and all persons requesting
same at a location within the franchise area as such area boundaries may exist
from time to time. No line extension charge or comparable charge shall be
imposed on any current or potential subscriber when located within the
franchise area except as further provided by this section.
   B.   Grantee shall not be required to extend its lines or provide cable
service any sooner than electric utility service is available to the
subscriber's location. Grantee shall provide service to a requesting subscriber
within a reasonable amount of time which in no event shall exceed three (3)
months.
   C.   Prior to providing service in low density areas to residential
subscribers, a grantee may require a residential subscriber to commit to an
initial service agreement of up to three (3) years, subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   A grantee shall not require a residential subscriber to pay a line
extension charge or comparable charge as a condition precedent to the provision
of service.
      2.   An agreement shall not require a residential subscriber to maintain
services in excess of the stand alone rate of basic cable service. However, a
residential subscriber and grantee are not restricted from agreeing on the
provision of additional services so long as subscriber may cancel such
additional services.
      3.   An agreement shall be terminable by a residential subscriber at any
time upon reasonable notice. However, said agreement may contain a provision
requiring payment of a line extension charge that shall only be applicable if,
prior to the end of the three (3) year term, the residential subscriber
terminates service entirely or the residential subscriber reduces subscriber's
services to a monthly rate less than the stand alone rate of basic cable
service.
      4.   Any such line extension charge shall be reasonable and shall be
prorated and reduced by the number of months the residential subscriber
maintained service and must take into consideration any subsequent development
in the area.
      5.   At the option of subscriber, subscriber may, as an alternative to
signing an initial service agreement, agree to pay a line extension charge.
      6.   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any existing or
potential commercial subscriber and, with a commercial subscriber, grantee is
not prohibited from reaching agreements or charging a line extension charge
that would otherwise be prohibited with a residential subscriber.
   D.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, a grantee may charge a
uniform standard installation fee. Grantee may also charge a drop fee for drops
exceeding the standard installation length of one hundred fifty feet (150') but
shall only charge for the incremental cost beyond one hundred fifty feet
(150'), which amount shall be reasonable. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-2-6: WRITTEN NOTICE:
All notices, reports, or demands required to be given in writing under this
article shall be deemed to be given when delivered personally to the party
listed below:
For city:
City Of Mitchell
c/o Finance Office
612 North Main Street
Mitchell, SD 57301
For grantee:
Midco
Attn: Nancy Vogel
3901 N. Louise Avenue
Sioux Falls, SD 57107
(Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-3: APPLICATION FOR NEW FRANCHISE:
Section
8-10A-3 of this chapter and its subsections are hereby incorporated by
reference. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-4: CONSTRUCTION, OPERATIONS STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS ON STREET USE:
   A.   A grantee shall obtain all required permits from grantor before
commencing any construction upgrade or extension of the system.
   B.   The grantee shall not be subject to permit fees except for any fees or
costs associated with repairs of streets or other infrastructure necessitated
by grantee's operations.
   C.   If, at any time during the period of this franchise, grantor shall
elect to alter, or change the grade or location of any street, alley, or other
public way, a grantee shall, at its own expense, upon reasonable notice by
grantor, remove and relocate its poles, wires, cables, conduits, manholes, and
other fixtures of the system. If grantor reimburses other occupants of the
street, a grantee shall be likewise reimbursed.
   D.   A grantee shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit
issued by grantor, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the moving
of buildings with the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by the
person requesting the same, and a grantee shall be given not less than ten (10)
days' advance notice to arrange for such temporary changes.
   E.   A grantee shall have the authority to trim vegetation or any trees upon
and overhanging the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public easements of grantor
so as to prevent such vegetation or trees from coming in contact with the wires
and cables of the grantee.
   F.   Nothing contained in this article shall relieve any person from
liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injuring grantee's system or facilities; nor shall grantee be so relieved of
liability arising out of its failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injury to any person's property.
   G.   In areas where all other utility lines are placed underground, grantee
shall construct and install its cables, wires and other facilities underground.
In any area where one or more public utilities are aerial, grantee may
construct and install its cables, wires and other facilities from the same pole
with the consent of the owner of the pole, subject to any future requirement of
city to have such aerial utilities placed underground.
   H.   A grantee shall at all times construct and operate its system in
accordance with applicable FCC technical specifications.
   I.   In the event that the use of any part of the system is discontinued for
any reason, except for nonuse arising from discontinued service by a
subscriber, for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, or in the event such
systems or property has been installed in any street or public place without
complying with the requirements of this article, or the rights granted
hereunder have been terminated, canceled or have expired, grantee shall,
subject to the rights of the city to acquire the abandoned portions of the
system as specified in subsection J of this section, promptly remove from the
streets, or public places all such property and poles of such system other than
any which the city may permit to be abandoned in place. In the event of such
removal, grantee shall promptly restore the street or other area from which
such property has been removed to a condition satisfactory to the city.
   J.   Any property of grantee to be abandoned in place shall be abandoned in
such a manner as the city may prescribe. Upon permanent abandonment of the
property of grantee in place, it shall submit to the city an instrument to be
approved by the city, transferring to the city the ownership of such property.
   K.   All cable and passive equipment for reception of cable services
installed by grantee at a subscriber's location shall remain the property of
grantee and grantee shall have the right to remove said cable and equipment.
Upon termination of cable service to any subscriber, the grantee shall promptly
remove all its aboveground facilities and equipment from the premises of such
subscriber upon the subscriber's request.
   L.   No poles or other wire holding structures shall be erected by the
grantee without prior approval of the designated representative of the city
council with regard to locations, height, type, or any other pertinent aspect,
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. However, no locations of any
pole or wire holding structure of the grantee shall be a vested interest and
such poles or structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its own
expense whenever the city council or its designated representative determines
that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby.
   M.   Where poles or other wire holding structures already existing in use in
serving the city are available for use by grantee, but it does not make
arrangements for such use, the city council may require the grantee to use such
poles and structures if it determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available to the grantee are just and
reasonable.
   N.   Where the city or a public utility serving the city desires to make use
of poles or other wire holding structures of the grantee but agreement therefor
with the grantee cannot be reached, the city council may require the grantee to
permit such use for such consideration as is just and reasonable and upon such
terms as the council determines the use would enhance the public convenience
and would not unduly burden grantee or interfere with the grantee's operations.
   O.   Grantee shall at all times maintain on file with the city finance
office a schedule setting forth all rates and charges to be made to subscribers
for basic cable service, including installation charges.
   P.   During the term hereof, the city reserves the right to regulate rates
pursuant to federal law and federal communications commission ("FCC")
regulations and any such rate regulation shall not conflict with the provisions
of FCC regulations and federal law. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-5: SYSTEM PROVISIONS AND PUBLIC SERVICES:
8-10C-5-1: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM:
A grantee shall render effective cable service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt cable service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
(Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-5-2: PEG CHANNELS:
   A.   Grantee shall provide to its subscribers one public, educational, or
governmental ("PEG") channel administered by the city or its designee. Such PEG
channel shall only broadcast content originated by the city or its designee.
   B.   If the city deems it necessary, and upon reasonable notice, grantee
shall make available a second PEG channel to be utilized by city or a designee,
which shall also only broadcast content originated by the city or its designee.
   C.   City may require a technology grant from grantee to be used in or
associated with the construction of PEG access facilities. The terms of such
grant shall be included in exhibit 1 to this franchise. In accordance with FCC
rules and regulations, such grant is a capital cost and shall be excluded from
franchise fee calculation. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-5-3: EMERGENCY USE:
In the case of any emergency or disaster, a grantee shall, subject to federal
law, upon request of the city council, make available its system to the city
for emergency use. A grantee shall comply with the emergency alert requirements
of federal law. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-5-4: LOCKOUT DEVICE:
Upon the request of a subscriber, grantee shall provide by sale or lease a
lockout device which inhibits video programming or portions of video
programming delivered by the cable system. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-5-5: CITY CABLE SERVICE:
Grantee agrees to provide free basic cable services to a central location at up
to fifteen (15) buildings designated by city. Such basic cable services shall
not be calculated against the franchise fee. This section of the franchise is a
material term of the contract, however, its inclusion is not mandated by city
as a condition precedent to the grant of an individual franchise. Grantee
understands that federal law allows for the amount of the benefit of free basic
cable services to be calculated against the franchise fee and grantee
specifically waives such right. Locations designated by the city shall be
listed in exhibit 2 to this franchise. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-6: OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS:
8-10C-6-1: INDEMNIFICATION OF GRANTOR:
   A.   A grantee shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless grantor, its
officers, boards, committees, commissions, elected officials, employees, and
agents, from and against all liability, damages, and penalties which they may
legally be required to pay as a result of the exercise of a franchise granted
pursuant to this article, except claims covered by workers' compensation
insurance or any claims arising from or related to grantor's negligence.
Nothing in this article relieves a person from liability arising out of the
failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring the grantee's system or
facilities while performing work connected with grading, regrading, or changing
the line of a street or public place or with the construction or reconstruction
of a sewer or water system.
   B.   In order for grantor to assert its rights to be indemnified, defended,
and held harmless, grantor must with respect to each claim:
      1.   Promptly notify a grantee in writing of any claim or legal
proceeding which gives rise to such right;
      2.   Afford grantee the opportunity to participate in and fully control
any compromise, settlement, or other resolution or disposition of any claim or
proceeding; and
      3.   Fully cooperate with reasonable requests of grantee, at grantee's
expense, in its participation in, and control, compromise, settlement or
resolution or other disposition of such claim or proceeding subject to
subsection B2 of this section. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-6-2: INSURANCE:
A grantee shall maintain in full force and effect at its sole expense, a
comprehensive general liability insurance policy, including contractual
liability coverage, in protection of grantor in its capacity as such. The
policies of insurance shall be in the sum of not less than three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for personal injury or death of any one person,
and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury or death of two (2)
or more persons in any one occurrence, three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for property damage to any one person and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for property damage resulting from any one act or occurrence,
which amounts may be modified by city from time to time in its sole discretion
to be exercised in good faith. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-6-3: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   A grantee will pay grantor a monthly franchise fee in the amount of
five percent (5%) of grantee's gross revenues.
   B.   The franchise fee shall be payable monthly, together with a brief
report showing the basis for the computation, such report to be held
confidential and exempt from public records disclosure requirements pursuant to
South Dakota Codified Laws 1-27-1.5(3) as containing trade secrets and other
proprietary or commercial information which if released would infringe
intellectual property rights or give advantage to business competitors.
   C.   Grantor shall be limited to a period of limitation for recovery of any
franchise fee payable hereunder of five (5) years. However, grantee shall be
liable for interest, at the judicial rate, on any late payments from the date
of the payment missed. Such limitation shall not apply in cases of fraud.
Grantor may request a review of records relating to the franchise fee and
grantee shall accommodate all reasonable requests to review such records. In
the event such review reveals a discrepancy of more than five percent (5%),
grantee shall be responsible for reimbursing the reasonable cost of such review
to grantor in addition to the deficiency amount plus interest at the judicial
rate. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-7: REVOCATION, ABANDONMENT, SALE, OR TRANSFER:
8-10C-7-1: GRANTOR'S RIGHT TO REVOKE:
Grantor reserves the right to revoke, terminate, or cancel a franchise, if
after strictly following the procedures required below, it is determined that a
grantee has violated any material provision of its franchise or this article
and has failed to substantially cure said violation. Such revocation procedures
include, in their entirety:
   A.   Grantor shall provide a grantee with written notice of a cause for
revocation, including facts establishing the basis of revocation, and the
intent to revoke and shall allow grantee thirty (30) days subsequent to receipt
of the notice in which to substantially cure the violation or to provide
adequate assurance of performance.
   B.   Grantee shall be provided the right to a public hearing affording due
process before the city council prior to revocation, which public hearing shall
follow the thirty (30) day notice period to cure the violation. Grantor shall
provide grantee with written notice of its decision together with written
findings of fact supplementing said decision.
   C.   After the public hearing and upon written determination by grantor to
revoke the franchise, grantee may appeal said decision with an appropriate
state or federal court or agency.
   D.   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force and
effect unless the term thereof sooner expires.
   E.   Upon satisfactory correction by grantee of the violation upon which
said notice was given, the initial notice shall become void. If violations
reoccur for substantially similar reasons, the notice period may be reduced by
the number of days previously spent in violation for any substantially similar
prior violations. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-7-2: SALE OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE:
No sale or transfer of a franchise shall take place without the grantor's
amendment of grantee's individual franchise ordinance, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld. Upon such amendment, all of the rights, privileges,
obligations, duties, and liabilities created by this franchise shall pass to
and be binding upon the successor or assignee of a grantee. No approval shall
be required where a grantee grants a security interest in its franchise and
assets to secure indebtedness. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-8: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
8-10C-8-1: FRANCHISE RENEWAL:
Any renewal of a franchise shall be done in accordance with applicable federal
law. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-8-2: AMENDMENT OF FRANCHISE:
A grantee and grantor may agree, from time to time, to amend a franchise. Such
written amendments may be made at any time, subject to applicable law. (Ord.
2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-8-3: MARKETING:
A grantee shall have the right to conduct direct selling in the franchise area,
including door to door sales, subject to any peddler or solicitor ordinance.
(Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-8-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this franchise is for any reason
held to be invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by a decision of any
authority or court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this franchise and the remainder
shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-8-5: SUPPLEMENTAL EXHIBITS:
Supplemental exhibits to an individual franchise shall have full force and
effect but may or may not be codified. A supplemental exhibit shall be for the
purpose of complementing, clarifying, or otherwise augmenting a term of the
standard cable franchise but in no event shall a supplemental exhibit place a
grantee at an undue competitive disadvantage. As exhibit 1 and exhibit 2 are
specifically referred to in this franchise, neither exhibit 1 nor exhibit 2
shall be required to be individually executed by the city or grantee. Future
exhibits shall be individually executed by the city and grantee before they
take effect. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-9: PUBLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE:
A franchise shall become effective twenty (20) days after its adoption and
publication if not referred, all pursuant to state law. Once effective, the
franchise will be deemed to have been in effect as of September 18, 2016. (Ord.
2550, 8-15-2016)
8-10C-10: ACCEPTANCE:
   A.   Grantee shall accept an individual franchise by executing the same.
Such acceptance by the grantee shall be deemed the grant of an individual
franchise for all purposes. With its acceptance, grantee shall also deliver any
insurance certificates required herein that have not been previously delivered.
   B.   Upon acceptance of an individual franchise, grantee shall be bound by
all the terms and conditions contained herein.
   C.   Grantee warrants that it is an equal opportunity/affirmative action
employer. (Ord. 2550, 8-15-2016)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Fire District
9-1-2: Fire Code Official
9-1-3: Fire Code Adopted
9-1-4: NFPA Code Adopted
9-1-5: Portions Of Fire Code Excluded From Adoption
9-1-6: Limitation Of Application
9-1-7: Multi-Family Rental Units
9-1-8: Certain Occupancy Classifications Not Exempt
9-1-9: Code Enforcement
9-1-10: Appeals
9-1-11: Violations And Penalties
9-1-1: FIRE DISTRICT:
The entire city is declared to be a fire district, including fire zones one,
two and three, and the boundaries shall be illustrated on an official map to be
maintained by the city building official and on file with the chief of fire and
EMS. The boundaries of the fire districts shall be continued as previously
established and depicted upon the official maps of the city maintained for such
purpose. Whenever in any code or ordinance adopted by and in effect in the city
the term “jurisdiction” shall be used, said term shall mean the jurisdictional
limits of the city of Mitchell, South Dakota. (Ord. 2482, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord.
O2025-01, 1-21-2025)
9-1-2: FIRE CODE OFFICIAL:
The chief of fire and EMS, or their designee, shall perform the duties of the
fire code official. The duties of the fire code official are as provided by the
adopted fire code, the city’s ordinances, or as further provided by the chief
of fire and EMS. (Ord. O2025-01, 1-21-2025)
9-1-3: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Code Adopted: The 2012 edition of the international fire code
(sometimes referred to as the "fire code"), as promulgated and published by the
International Code Council, Inc., together with the appendixes thereto A and B,
is hereby adopted, and by this reference incorporated herein to the same extent
as if set out herein in full. Wherever in the fire code reference shall be made
to the NFPA code, such reference shall mean the then prevailing version of the
life safety code, as adopted by section
9-1-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Application Exclusions: No part or provision of the said 2012 edition
of said code shall be interpreted or applied in a manner which would require
that any fire sprinkler system be installed in a single-family dwelling. No
provision in the code adopted by this chapter shall apply to mobile or
manufactured homes as defined in South Dakota Codified Law chapter 32-7A which
are constructed in compliance with the applicable prevailing standards of the
United States department of housing and urban development at the time of
construction; and no provision in the code adopted by this chapter or provision
of any other ordinance shall apply to any specialty resort or vacation home
establishments as defined in South Dakota Codified Law chapter 34-18 that is
constructed in compliance with the requirements of group R-3 of the 2012
edition of the international building code. (Ord. 2482, 8-4-2014)
9-1-4: NFPA CODE ADOPTED:
The prevailing most current version of the NFPA code promulgated and published
by the National Fire Prevention Association (NFPA) is hereby adopted by
reference and the most current version of such NFPA code shall be the version
deemed to be referred to in and by the international fire code as such shall at
any time be in effect in the city. (Ord. 2482, 8-4-2014)
9-1-5: PORTIONS OF FIRE CODE EXCLUDED FROM ADOPTION:
Sections 103.2 and 103.3 of chapter one of the fire code are not adopted by the
city. (Ord. 2482, 8-4-2014)
9-1-6: LIMITATION OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Except as may otherwise be provided by city ordinance (exclusive of the
fire code) the fire code as above adopted shall not apply to one-family and
two-family dwellings.
   B.   Except as may otherwise be provided by city ordinance (exclusive of the
fire code) the fire code shall not apply to three- or four-family dwellings
provided that such dwellings are constructed on ground level and have more than
a single route of fire safety egress.
   C.   Except as may otherwise be provided by city ordinance (exclusive of the
fire code) the fire code shall not apply to buildings existing as of the
effective date of the fire code. Buildings and structures existing as of the
time of the effective date of the fire code shall be subject to the
requirements and standards of the fire code (i.e., then existing fire code) in
effect at the time of construction of such preexisting building or structure.
   D.   Requirements for permit as provided for in the fire code shall apply
only in respect to open burning/open fires, employment of or setting off of
fireworks and pyrotechnics, and explosives. The charge for any permit so
required shall be as established by resolution of the Mitchell city council.
(Ord. 2482, 8-4-2014)
9-1-7: MULTI-FAMILY RENTAL UNITS:
   A.   Rental structures used for human habitation consisting of two (2) or
more separate living units (commonly called apartments) shall have installed
operational smoke alarms, with not less than one such alarm installed in each
sleeping room (i.e., bedroom) and other area(s) used as an overnight sleeping
location and one in each hallway or passageway constituting an egress route
from each such sleeping room or area.
   B.   All rental structures used for human habitation consisting of two (2)
or more separate living units (commonly called apartments) which include living
units other than those entirely at ground level, which do not have firewall
separation between individual units of fire rating of at least one hour, and
including all multi-unit dwelling structures which were not originally
constructed as multi-unit dwellings and later converted to multi-unit dwellings
(i.e., apartments) shall provide at least two (2) separate egress pathways for
escape from fire from each bedroom or other area within the unit regularly used
for overnight sleeping, regardless of whether the structure was constructed
before the effective date of the fire code. Each such separate egress pathway
for escape from fire as required by this subsection shall be wholly independent
of the other escape pathway; and each such escape pathway must be qualified as
an accepted means of egress under the fire code or otherwise acceptable to the
chief of fire and EMS or their designee. Every bedroom or area regularly used
for sleeping shall have a window opening to the exterior which qualifies as an
egress window according to the fire code or alternatively is deemed adequate by
the chief of fire and EMS, or their designee, for escape in the event other
route(s) of escape would be blocked by fire, excepting that a bedroom or other
room or area regularly used for overnight sleeping which does not have a window
to the exterior as above specified shall have an exit door direct to the
exterior of the structure which can be opened at any time from the inside
without the requirement of a key; and if such an exit door is not at ground
level it shall exit onto a stairway suitable for fire escape. (Ord. 2501, 10-
20-2014; amd. Ord. O2025-01, 1-21-2025)
9-1-8: CERTAIN OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATIONS NOT EXEMPT:
Buildings with the occupancy classification of E (educational), H (high
hazard), and I (institutional) under the fire code are not exempt. Provisions
applicable to the above stated occupancy classifications within the fire code
shall not supersede the provisions of state and/or federal regulations at any
time in effect. (Ord. 2482, 8-4-2014)
9-1-9: CODE ENFORCEMENT:
The chief of fire and EMS, or their designee, shall be responsible for
enforcement of the applicable provisions of the adopted fire code as the same
shall be in effect at any time in the city. The chief of fire and EMS, or their
designee, shall exercise all authorities and duties of inspection as may
otherwise be provided by ordinance or fire code. Notice of action by the
issuing employee which is adverse to the application for a permit by any
person, or will adversely affect the interest of a person, shall be made in
writing and shall be delivered to the person either by deposit of such notice
in the U.S. mail, first class with postage prepaid and addressed to the last
known address of such person, or alternatively delivered personally to such
person. (Ord. 2482, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. O2020-14, 12-7-2020; Ord. O2025-01, 1-
21-2025)
9-1-10: APPEALS:
Any person who believes he or she has been aggrieved by an action of an
employee taken pursuant to this chapter which is adverse to the interests of
such person, such person may appeal the decision to the Mitchell city council
by filing a statement written in plain language with the city finance officer,
stating the action from which the appeal is taken within ten (10) days of
receiving written notification of adverse action taken under the preceding
section of this chapter. The appeal shall be heard by the Mitchell city council
in regular or special session within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of
such appeal by the city finance officer. Notice of hearing on such appeal shall
be given to the person making the appeal in the manner as notice of adverse
action as provided in section
9-1-9  of this chapter at least ten (10) days prior to the date set for such
appeal hearing. (Ord. 2482, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. O2025-01, 1-21-2025)
9-1-11: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of the fire code, including
standards relating thereto, whether adopted by specific action of the Mitchell
city council or incorporated by reference into a nationally published code
adopted by the Mitchell city council, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall
fail to comply with any order issued under the authority thereof, or who shall
build any structure not in conformance with the fire code standards, including
the standards of the life safety code, or shall build a structure not in
conformance with standards and specifications approved by the fire code
official, and who shall have taken no appeal or whose appeal shall not be
upheld, or shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by
the city council or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the time so
fixed, shall be subject to prosecution for violation of city ordinance, and
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of the city code. The application of the above penalty shall not be held
to prevent the enforcement, including, but not limited to, removal of the
noncompliant conditions. (Ord. 2482, 8-4-2014; amd. Ord. O2025-01, 1-21-2025)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Codes Adopted
9-2-2: Amendments To Codes
9-2-3: Sidewalks
9-2-1: CODES ADOPTED 1 :
The following codes and standards, as promulgated, approved and published by
the International Conference Of Building Officials, are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference. A printed copy of each code and standard
herein adopted is on file in the office of the city finance officer:
The international building code, 2012 edition, including chapters 1-10, 12-26,
and 30-35, and appendices C and I, as published by the International Code
Council, subject to such revisions and exceptions as may be provided by
ordinance.
The international residential code, 2012 edition, including chapters 1-23 and
appendix G, as published by the International Code Council, subject to such
revisions and exceptions as may be provided by ordinance. (Ord. 2505, 12-15-
2014)
The international existing building code, 2012 edition, including chapter A6 of
appendix A, and resource A, guidelines of fire ratings of archaic materials and
assemblies, as published by the International Code Council, subject to such
revisions and exceptions as may be provided by ordinance; said code as
heretofore adopted shall be an alternate set of regulations governing the
repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation of existing
buildings, including historic buildings, all as provided therein, and for
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor. (Ord. 2508, 1-19-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections 9-1-3 and 9-1-4 of this title for fire codes.
9-2-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODES:
Amendments to the codes adopted in section
9-2-1 of this chapter are incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 2506, 2-2-
2015)
9-2-3: SIDEWALKS 1 :
   A.   Installation And Construction: Installation and construction of
sidewalks shall be required as a condition of issuance of all building permits
in the city as follows:
      1.   All new residential construction for single- or multi-family housing
within the city for all sides of the property which face a curbed street.
      2.   All commercial construction or renovation for all sides of the
property which face a curbed street.
   B.   Waiver: The city council, or a designated committee of the city
council, upon request and application, may waive the requirement of immediate
sidewalk installation which is otherwise required as a condition for the
issuance of a building permit, but such waiver shall not constitute a waiver of
any later requirement of the installation of a sidewalk. (Ord. 2230, 12-4-2006)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 8, chapter 1, article A of this code.
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Permit Requirements
9-3-2: Plumber's Licenses
9-3-3: Work Specifications
9-3-4: Fees
9-3-5: Inspections And Tests
9-3-6: Enforcement
9-3-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Posting:
      1.   No person shall begin work on the construction, alteration or
reconstruction of any plumbing or house drainage system in any building without
first obtaining from the building official a permit for the work, which permit
shall, at all times during the construction of such work and until the
completion thereof, be posted in some conspicuous place in the building wherein
such work is being done. (1984 Code § 29-11)
      2.   When a permit has been issued for plumbing work, in no case shall
additional work be put in or additional fixtures set without the approval of
the building official. A new permit shall be taken out for all such additional
work or fixtures. (1984 Code § 29-15)
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a plumbing permit shall be
made, in writing, to the building official. Such application shall list the
fixtures to be installed, shall state the street address where the work is to
be done, shall carry the name of the owner and the master plumber under whose
direction the work is to be done and shall state that the work is to be done in
accordance with this chapter and the rules and regulations of the state board
of health. (1984 Code § 29-12)
   C.   Submission Of Plans: When required by the building official, plans
showing the entire plumbing system shall be submitted by the master plumber,
prior to the issuance of a permit. If such master plumber shall refuse to
furnish such plans of plumbing drainage work, he shall receive no permit, and
if he undertakes any contract work without permit, he shall forfeit his license
and shall not be allowed to do any further work in connection with sewers,
drainage or plumbing as a master plumber. (1984 Code § 29-36)
   D.   Issuance Of Permit; Contents: Upon approval of the application for a
permit and the payment of the proper fee, the building official shall issue a
plumbing permit; provided, that no permit shall be issued to a person who is
not a licensed master plumber or an owner doing the work personally on his own
property. Such permit shall set forth fully the fixtures to be installed and
the street address of the property and shall carry the names of the owner and
plumber who is authorized to install the work. (1984 Code § 29-14)
9-3-2: PLUMBER'S LICENSES:
   A.   License Required: No person shall do any work on the construction,
alteration or reconstruction of any plumbing or house drainage system or any
property in the city, of which he is not the owner and occupant, without first
securing a license either as a master plumber or a journeyman plumber. (1984
Code § 29-3)
   B.   Application For License; Requirements Of Applicant: Application for a
license shall be in writing and filed with the finance officer, who shall refer
such applications to the board of plumbing examiners for action. The applicant
shall state the class of license applied for and shall list his experience in
chronological order stating the name and address of employer and the type of
work engaged upon. The application shall further state the applicant's address
and telephone number.
      1.   An applicant for a journeyman plumber's license shall have been
employed as a plumber's helper for an aggregate of at least four (4) years.
      2.   An applicant for a master plumber's license shall have been employed
as a journeyman plumber for an aggregate of at least four (4) years. (1984 Code
§ 29-4)
   C.   Classes Of Licenses: There shall be two (2) classes of plumber's
license, namely journeyman plumber and master plumber.
      1.   A master plumber's license shall entitle the holder thereof to
engage in the business of installing plumbing work and to obtain permits
therefor. Such licensee shall be capable of executing the complete layout and
the complete installation of any plumbing system contemplated under this
chapter.
      2.   A journeyman plumber's license shall entitle the holder thereof to
execute the installation of plumbing work under the supervision and direction
of a master plumber. (1984 Code § 29-5)
   D.   Fees And Term Of Licenses: Before a license is granted to any
application and for the annual renewal of such license, the applicant shall pay
to the finance officer the fee required for the class of license applied for,
said fees to be established from time to time by resolution of the city
council.
Each license shall be for the calendar year and shall expire at midnight
December 31, following the date of issuance. (1984 Code § 29-6)
   E.   Bond Requirements: Before the granting of any master plumber's license
to any applicant or before any such expiring license is renewed, the applicant
shall file with the finance officer a surety bond in the amount of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00), in form to be approved by the city council.
The conditions of the bond shall be that the holder of the license shall
faithfully comply with all the provisions of this chapter and will indemnify
and save harmless the city and its officials from all damages, liability, loss
or judgments that may be claimed against the city by reason or failure of the
holder of the license to comply with all provisions of this chapter, by
incompetence or neglect on the part of such master plumber in the performance
of work done, on account of careless guarding of excavations made or failure to
put all streets or public places opened in as good condition as they were
before work was done, or by reason of any cause growing out of the negligence
or carelessness of such master plumber. (1984 Code § 29-7)
   F.   Conditions Of License:
      1.   Every licensed plumber shall be held responsible for the acts of his
agents or employees done under and by virtue of his license.
      2.   Any change in business name or location by a licensed plumber shall
be promptly reported to the building official.
      3.   The plumbing license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the
place of business of the licensee.
      4.   No plumbing license shall be transferable.
      5.   Any defective plumbing work shall be changed to conform to this
chapter or other ordinances pertaining hereto. If, on due notice from the
building official, such changes are not made, the building official shall
proceed to make such changes or to have them made, and the city may recover the
cost thereof from the plumber performing such defective work or from his
bondsmen. (1984 Code § 29-8)
   G.   Revocation Of License: Upon presentation to the building official of
charges that the holder of any license laws wilfully violated any of the
provisions of this chapter or is incompetent to comply with such provisions,
the building official shall fix a time and place for meeting to consider such
charges and shall notify the holder thereof. Such notification shall be in
writing and shall be delivered to the holder at least five (5) days in advance
of the meeting.
If, upon hearing of all evidence offered, it shall be decided that the holder
of the license has wilfully violated any of the provisions of this chapter or,
by continued violation, has proved his incompetence to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, then the license of the holder shall be revoked.
(1984 Code § 29-9)
9-3-3: WORK SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Pipe Materials; General Provisions: All soil, waste and ventilation
pipes, when placed in any building under alteration or construction, shall be
cast iron, brass, copper, lead or wrought iron pipe galvanized. No chimney,
brick or sheet metal pipe shall be used for any part of the plumbing or
plumbing ventilation.
Tapping holes in soil or waste pipes will not be allowed, and when necessary to
disconnect pipes for the removal of stoppage, cleanouts shall be inserted.
(1984 Code § 29-25)
   B.   Size Of Soil Pipes: When fifteen (15) or more water closets discharge
in a line of soil pipe, such soil pipe shall not be less than six inches (6")
in diameter. In all cases the soil pipe receiving the discharge from a water
closet shall not be less than four inches (4") in diameter. (1984 Code § 29-29)
   C.   Lavatories:
      1.   All earthenware and iron water closets having traps above floor,
using lead connection to soil pipe, shall have a cast brass floor flange not
less than one-eighth inch (1/8") thick, soldered to lead and bolted to trap of
closet, the joint being made airtight with rubber gasket. (1984 Code § 29-30)
      2.   Every factory, workshop or place where persons are employed shall be
provided with suitable closet accommodations for each sex. Theaters, public
halls, railway and bus depots shall be provided with sufficient closets for the
convenience of the patrons. (1984 Code § 29-31)
   D.   Compliance Of Plumbing In Moved Buildings: When a building is moved
from one location to another, no additional plumbing work or connection shall
be made until the plumbing in the building has been reconstructed to comply
with this chapter. (1984 Code § 29-32)
   E.   Additional Plumbing Where Defective Plumbing Exists: No additional
plumbing shall be installed in a building where there is defective plumbing
until such defects have been repaired, renovated, replaced or removed. (1984
Code § 29-33)
   F.   Yard Sprinkling System: Yard sprinkling systems shall be installed so
that all piping will drain dry when water is cut off, and there shall be
installed in the main supply in a syphon breaker behind all sprinkler heads.
The piping of such yard sprinkling system shall not be covered up until the
building official has approved the whole system. (1984 Code § 29-34)
   G.   Stormwater And Roof Drainage: In no case shall stormwater or roof
drainage be introduced into the sanitary sewer system. (1984 Code § 29-35)
   H.   Installation Of Plumbing By Owners: Plumbing may be installed by the
owner in a residence which is occupied by him as such, but all plumbing so
installed by such owner shall comply with this code or other ordinances
governing such installation. (1984 Code § 29-37)
9-3-4: FEES:
Every application for a permit to install, add to, alter, relocate or replace a
plumbing system or any part thereof shall be accompanied with the schedule
established from time to time by resolution of the city council.
Where inspection fees have been paid for openings left in any plumbing work, no
additional fee shall be charged when the fixtures are set. If, by reason of
noncompliance with any of the provisions of this chapter or through the use of
defective material, a subsequent inspection becomes necessary, the person doing
the plumbing within said premises first inspected shall notify the building
official, in writing, that another inspection is necessary, and for such
inspection a charge set by the city council shall be made. No permit shall be
issued to any plumber who is delinquent in the payment of any such charges.
All inspection fees shall be paid to the building official who shall issue the
plumbing permit, constituting the receipt of fees paid.
All work being done under one contract and ready for inspection at the same
time, shall be taken as one job for the purpose of basing the inspection fees.
(1984 Code § 29-13)
9-3-5: INSPECTIONS AND TESTS:
   A.   Tests Required: The plumbing in all buildings in the course of
construction or in buildings where plumbing is being installed shall have the
entire water, waste and vent pipes tested by stopping up all openings thereof
and filling the pipes with water to the highest point until all leaks are
stopped; provided, that during cold weather when there is danger from frost, a
smoke or peppermint test may be made. All defective material shall be replaced
and repaired to the satisfaction of the building official in such manner as to
be entirely sound.
Such test shall be made in the presences of the building official and shall
include all soil, waste and vent pipes, brass ferrules and soldering nipples in
connection with the same to the finished line or face of the floors or
sidewalks. (1984 Code § 29-19)
   B.   Notice To Building Official; Inspection: Any person doing plumbing
shall, when work has been prepared for inspection as provided for in this
chapter, notify the building official by notice provided for that purpose, that
inspection is required, giving location of premises and time that work will be
ready for inspection. If, upon inspection, the building official finds the work
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, he shall notify the plumber
doing the work, and such notice shall be the only notice required to be given
of the defects in the work found upon such inspection. (1984 Code § 29-20)
The building official shall inspect within two (2) working days after having
been notified that such work is ready for inspection. (1984 Code § 29-21)
   C.   Acceptance Of Roughing In Work: At the time of acceptance of any
roughing in work, the building official shall attach to the soil or waste pipe
in the basement, if there is a basement, and if none, on the plumbing in some
conspicuous place, a notice stating the date of acceptance of such work, the
name of such official and his title, also the name of the plumber having such
contract. (1984 Code § 29-22)
   D.   Final Inspection: When the work covered by the permit shall have been
completed, the building official shall be notified that the work is ready for
the final inspection, and the building official may, at his discretion, require
a final test. No work shall be done until this inspection has been made and a
certificate of final approval has been attached to such plumbing work. Such
certificates shall be in the form required for acceptance of roughing in work.
(1984 Code § 29-23)
9-3-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Of Provisions: The building official, acting under the
powers provided in this chapter, shall have the power to enforce this chapter.
In the exercise of such power he shall require that all installations be made
in an approved manner and the provisions of this chapter shall be construed in
accordance with the provisions of the South Dakota plumbing code adopted
September 7, 1971 1 . (1984 Code § 29-24)
   B.   Entry Provisions: The building official shall have access to all
buildings for the purpose of inspection and carrying into effect all provisions
of this chapter relating to drainage or ventilation.
   C.   Stop Work Orders: All plumbing work in process of construction,
alteration or repair shall be under the supervision of the building official
who shall have power to stop any such work when it is being done contrary to
the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Rules And Regulations: The building official shall have power to
establish and enforce such reasonable rules and regulations pertaining to
plumbing work as may be necessary for the protection of health, persons and
property. Such rules and regulations shall be effective upon approval by the
city council. In the absence of other rules or regulations, compliance with the
requirements of the uniform plumbing code, as adopted by the Western Plumbing
Officials Association, shall be considered as compliance with this chapter.
(1984 Code § 29-18)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL § 36-25-15.
CHAPTER 4
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose, Jurisdiction, Conflict And Separability
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: Administration And Enforcement
9-4-4: Permits; Exempt, Prohibited And Nonconforming Signs
9-4-5: Design, Placement And Construction Standards
9-4-6: General Sign Regulations
9-4-6-1: On Premises Signs
9-4-6-2: Aerial Signs
9-4-6-3: Banners
9-4-6-4: Off Premises Signs
9-4-6-5: Digital Off Premises Billboards
9-4-6-6: Electronic Message Centers
9-4-6-7: Historic Commercial District
9-4-6-8: Historically Or Culturally Significant Signs
9-4-6-9: Signs In Residential Districts
9-4-7: Tables
9-4-1: PURPOSE, JURISDICTION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general safety
and welfare of the city of Mitchell and its area of extraterritorial
jurisdiction, in regards to the appropriate installation, placement and
regulation of signs. The objectives of this chapter are:
      1.   To regulate signs which facilitate orientation, identify activities,
advertise or promote the interests of any person, product, services, express
local history and character, or serve educational purposes;
      2.   To encourage the readability of signs;
      3.   To control the number, size, location, installation, and conditions
of signs;
      4.   To regulate signs to prevent the obstruction of vision or
interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      5.   To maintain and enhance the overall aesthetics of the community and
ensure fair and consistent enforcement of this chapter.
   B.   Jurisdiction:
      1.   No sign may be erected, placed, established, created or maintained
in the city of Mitchell's zoning jurisdiction unless it is in conformity with
the standards, procedures, exceptions and other requirements of this chapter.
These regulations apply to all the zoning districts of the city of Mitchell and
its area of extraterritorial jurisdiction that has been mutually agreed upon by
the city of Mitchell council and the Davison County board of commissioners,
which is depicted on the official zoning maps of the city of Mitchell and
Davison County and as such limits now exist or as they may be changed.
      2.   All signs placed in or adjacent to any state controlled right of way
are subject to the requirements of the South Dakota department of
transportation and may require a permit from the state, as well as from the
city of Mitchell. Davison County and township governments may install or
require signs within the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction, but outside the
corporate limits, as they may determine to be necessary.
   C.   Conflict: All provisions of the laws and ordinances of the city of
Mitchell and state of South Dakota shall be complied with, whether specified
herein or not. In the event that portions of this chapter conflict with other
portions, or portions of this chapter conflict with other ordinances, statutes,
regulations, or laws of any governmental body and recorded covenants or deed
restrictions; the more restrictive requirement shall apply. In addition,
compliance with this chapter does not presume to give authority to violate,
cancel or set aside any of the provisions of the building code, this code,
state statutes or federal laws regulating the construction or development or
the performance of construction or development in the city's jurisdiction.
   D.   Separability: Should any article, section, or provisions of this
chapter be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such
declaration shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any
part thereof, other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or
invalid. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign or sign structure that is blank, obliterated, or
displays obsolete advertising material for a period in excess of six (6)
continuous months.
AERIAL SIGN: A balloon or other airborne flotation device which is tethered to
the ground or to a building or other structure that directs attention to a
business, community service, or entertainment where products or services are
provided or sold.
ALTERATION (STRUCTURAL): When any owner or authorized agent intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a
building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system, the
installation of which may be regulated by code, ordinance or state statute, or
to cause such work to be done. All alterations may require an application to
the building official for required permits.
AMBIENT LIGHT: The light surrounding an environment or subject, also called
available light or existing light.
ANIMATED SIGN: A sign that uses movement, electronic messaging, or the change
of lighting either natural or artificial, that depicts action or creates a
special effect of scenes.
APPROPRIATE PERIOD DETAILING: A design detailing commensurate to any
established construction period. Details vary for specific, commonly recognized
building styles. When these details are removed, there may be a significant
negative impact to the property.
ARTWORK: An artistic production, including, but not limited to, sculptures,
paintings, photographs, or other similar structures.
BANNER: Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is attached to
a structure or building with cables, ropes, tie downs, or other fasteners.
National flags, state or municipal flags, or the official flag of any
institution or business shall not be considered banners.
BEACON: A stationary revolving light which flashes or projects single color or
multicolored illumination, in any manner which is intended to attract or divert
attention. However, this term is not intended to include any kind of lighting
device which is required or necessary under the safety regulations described by
the federal aviation administration or similar agencies.
BILLBOARD: A large outdoor advertising sign or sign space suitable for leasing
to others for consideration. This sign shall be considered an off premises
sign, which may include, but not limited to, the following structure types:
   A.   Back To Back: A structure with two (2) or more parallel sign faces
oriented in opposite directions.
   B.   V-Type: A structure or structures with two (2) sign faces, forming the
shape of the letter "V" when viewed from above, with an angle between two (2)
faces of not more than thirty degrees (30°).
BULLETIN BOARD (KIOSK): Any sign or structure erected by a charitable,
educational, civic, or religious institution, attractions or a public body,
which is installed, for purposes of announcing events or serves as a community
directory to various points of interests. Includes required signs located on
construction sites.
CANOPY SIGN: A sign that is a part of or attached to an awning, canopy or
similar structure that provides a protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or sidewalk.
CIVIC EVENT: Any event sponsored by a public agency, educational institution,
religious institution, civic-fraternal organization, or similar nonprofit or
not for profit organization.
CLEARANCE (OF A SIGN): The smallest vertical distance between the grade of the
adjacent street, highway, or street curb and the lowest point of any sign,
including framework and embellishments, extending over that grade.
COMMEMORATIVE SIGN: A sign, tablet, or plaque commemorating or memorializing a
person, event, structure, or historic or significant site.
COMMERCIAL MESSAGE: Any sign, wording, logo or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, sale, or sales event or other commercial activity.
CONDITIONAL USE: As defined by South Dakota Codified Laws title 11 and title
10, "Zoning Regulations", of this code.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit issued by the city's authority stating that a
conditional use complies with all conditions and standards set forth in title
10 of this code and/or authorized by the city.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A temporary sign identifying a building or construction site
including, but not limited to, contractors, architects, engineers, financing
institutions, or suppliers; including a bulletin board containing required
information or announcements.
COPY, SIGN: Any graphic, word, numeral, symbol, insignia, text, sample, model,
device or combination thereof which is primarily intended to advertise,
identify, or notify a message for the public's view.
DEVELOPMENT IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign in which the copy identifies a shopping
center, commercial or industrial park, or other development that may include
other uses including, but not limited to, residential, commercial, public,
industrial or educational uses.
DIGITAL SIGN: A sign capable of displaying multiple static images controlled by
electronic communications either by automation or remotely controlled.
DILAPIDATED SIGN: A sign where elements of the display area or panel are
visibly cracked, broken, or discolored, where the support structure or frame
members are visibly corroded, bent, broken, torn, or dented, or where the
message can no longer be read under normal viewing conditions. Such sign may be
deemed unlawful or a public nuisance.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN (OFF PREMISES): A sign not located upon the premises of the
commercial or public activity to which it refers that directs the movement or
placement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic. An off premises directional sign
may contain only a business or entity name or logo and directional information.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN (ON PREMISES): A sign located upon the premises of the
commercial or public activity to which it refers that directs the movement or
placement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic. An on premises directional sign
may contain only a business or entity name or logo and directional information.
ELECTRICAL SIGN: A sign that uses electricity as a source of power for
illumination, functionality, or displaying of messages.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER SIGN: A sign capable of displaying words, symbols,
figures or images that can be electronically or mechanically changed by remote
or automatic means. Characteristics include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Frame: A complete, static display screen on an electronic message
display.
   B.   Frame Effect: A visual effect on an electronic message display applied
to a single frame to attract the attention of viewers.
   C.   Transition: A visual effect used on electronic message display to
change from one message to another.
ELEVATION: A mechanically accurate, "head on" drawing of a face of a building
or sign, without any allowance for the effect of the laws of perspective. Any
measurement on an elevation is in a fixed proportion, or scale, to the
corresponding measurement of the real building.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, or affix, and shall
also include the painting of wall signs.
EXEMPT SIGN: A sign for which a permit is not required.
FLAG: Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns or
symbols, used as a symbol, standard, signal or emblem.
FLASHING SIGN: An illuminated sign, in which artificial or reflected light is
not maintained stationary and is constant in intensity and color at all times
when in use.
FOOT-CANDLE: A measurement of the amount of light that is intercepted by a
meter or similar device from a given distance away from a lit object and
measured by a foot-candle meter or similar device.
FRAME HOLD TIME: The duration or interval of time during which each individual
advertisement or message is displayed on any sign which is capable of
sequentially displaying more than one advertisement or message on its display
surface.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign that is not attached to a building or structure to
which is located on and including, but not limited to, pole, monument or other
signs or sign structures placed independently from a building.
FRONTAGE: The length of the front zoning line or lines of any premises, which
is parallel to and along each street right of way it borders.
FUEL PRICE SIGN: A changeable copy sign advertising fuel prices at an
establishment providing fuel sales.
GHOST SIGN: A historical sign on a wall advertising a past business or pursuit.
GRADE: The ground level as established by the public works department.
HISTORIC CONTEXT: An organizing structure for interpreting history that groups
information about historic properties that share a common theme, common
geographical area, and a common time period.
HISTORIC INTEGRITY: The degree to which a building has retained its original
elements.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION: The commission appointed by the mayor to
conduct duties and responsibilities as set forth in title 3, chapter 4 of this
code and state statute.
HISTORICALLY OR CULTURALLY SIGNIFICANT SIGNS: Criteria to be considered a
historically or culturally significant sign include, but are not limited to:
South Dakota agricultural or western image; nostalgic significance; character,
design, or materials that represent a particular historical period; landmark
recognition; and character or design that are recognizably important to one or
more cultures. Signs that are hand painted directly on the surface of a
building and include artistic work without being a mural, in addition to a
commercial message, such as a ghost sign, may be eligible for a finding of
cultural significance. Historic or cultural nature of the signage may be
significant to society generally or in the context of the Mitchell community
particularly.
HOME OCCUPATION SIGN: A sign containing only the name and occupation of a
permitted home occupation.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, symbols, or
its outline illuminated by electric light, luminous tubes, or other artificial
lighting sources.
INSTITUTIONAL SIGN: A sign, which includes names and logos that identifies a
public, recreational, educational, religious, charitable, or similar
institutional uses permitted within applicable zoning districts and may also
provide the announcement of services or activities held therein.
INTEGRAL SIGNS: Names of buildings, dates of erection, monumental citations,
commemoration tablets, and the like, of permanent type construction and made an
integral part of the building structure.
LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign or sign structure which does not comply with
all provisions of this chapter, but which was legal at the time it was
constructed.
LIGHT TRESPASS: A term used in the outdoor lighting industry to describe light
that falls outside of a property that is primarily intended to be lighted.
MAINTENANCE (SIGN): The upkeep and repair of signs and sign structures that do
not include relocation, alteration, installation, removal, illumination, or
classification thereof.
MENU SIGNS: Signs which give menu items and prices for drive-up windows.
MONUMENT SIGN: A freestanding sign which is encased in framework or brickwork
upon the ground.
MOVING SIGN: Any sign which in part or in total rotates, revolves, or otherwise
is in motion.
MULTI-TENANT SIGN: An identification sign placed at a site with multiple
tenants, displaying the names of each tenant on the site.
MURAL: A sign painted directly onto a building. Murals are intended to serve an
artistic function and do not include a commercial message.
NONCOMMERCIAL SIGNS: Any sign, wording, logo or other representation that does
not directly or indirectly name, advertise, or call attention to a business,
product, service, sale, or sales event or other commercial activity.
NONILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign other than an illuminated sign or reflective sign
which is visible primarily from a natural light source.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign advertising a business, person, service or product
which is located or conducted elsewhere than on the premises where the sign is
located.
ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign advertising the business, person, service or product
of the building or land upon which it is located, or identifying the premises
or goods manufactured, produced, or services rendered thereon.
OUTLINE LIGHTING: An arrangement of incandescent lamps or electric discharge
tubing that outlines or calls attention to certain features of a building, such
as its shape or the decoration of a window.
OWNER, SIGN: The person with respect to any sign for which a sign permit has
been issued; or with respect to a sign for which no sign permit is required, or
for which no sign permit has been obtained, "sign owner" means the person
entitled to possession of such sign, the owner, occupant, and agent of the
property where the sign is located, and any person deriving a benefit from the
sign.
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE: The time period during which the majority of
contributing buildings in a historic district were constructed. The period of
significance is generally established by the designation of the district.
PERMANENT SIGN: A sign which is permanently attached to a framing or a sign
with a support member at or below the frost line or attached to a building or
another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall, frame or structure.
POLITICAL SIGN: A sign identifying and urging voter support or opposition for a
particular election issue, political party, ballot question, or advocating a
candidate for public office.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to "A-frames" or "T-frames"; menu and sandwich boards signs;
umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles
parked and visible from the public right of way, unless said vehicle is used in
the normal day to day operations of the business. These signs are considered
temporary signs.
PROJECTING OR HANGING SIGNS: Any double sided sign that is hung from a frame or
by a horizontal post attached to a storefront wall. A projecting sign's purpose
is to appeal to pedestrians.
PUBLIC INFORMATION SIGN: A sign usually authorized, erected and maintained by a
public agency that provides the public with information and in no way relates
to a commercial activity. Includes, but is not limited to, speed limits, stop
signs, city limit signs, street names, public parking sites, public buildings,
and directional signs.
RADIUS: A line segment extending from the center of a circle or sphere to the
circumference or bounding surface.
READER BOARD (CHANGEABLE COPY): A sign or portion thereof with characters,
letters, or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering
the face of the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message changes more
than eight (8) times per day shall be considered an animated sign and not a
changeable copy sign.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A temporary sign placed upon property for the purpose of
advertising to the public the sale or lease of the property and including signs
indicating open houses or auctions.
RELIGIOUS SYMBOLS: A structure symbolizing a particular faith, denomination, or
belief.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or to be occupied by a street, railroad,
transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water lines, storm or sanitary sewer
lines, pedestrian walkways or other public or special use. The use of the term
"right of way" for platting purposes shall mean that every right of way
hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct
from the lots or parcels adjoining such right of way and not included within
the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights of way may be dedicated
to public use by the owner of the plat on which such right of way is
established.
ROCK SIGNS: Signs that are engraved or otherwise inscribed into one or more
faces of a rock.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or essentially
integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that no part of
the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and such that
no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more
than six inches (6").
ROTATING SIGN: Any sign or portion of a sign which moves in a revolving or
similar manner.
SANDWICH BOARD (PORTABLE SIGNS): A double sided portable sign that sits on
pavement, like an easel.
SCALE: The size or apparent size of an object as seen in relation to other
objects or its environment or format; also used to refer to the quality or
monumentality found in some objects regardless of their size.
SCROLLING: The horizontal and/or vertical movement of a message moving across
the face of an electric message center sign. Scrolling of messages solely
containing text is allowed on an electric message center. Scrolling of images,
patterns and/or designs, even if the image pattern or design consists of text
is not allowed.
SETBACK: As defined by title 10, "Zoning Regulations", of this code.
SHADING: The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shielded, shaded or
directed so that the light intensity shall not adversely affect surrounding or
facing premises or safe vision of operators of vehicles on public or private
rights of way.
SIGHT VIEW TRIANGLE: The triangular area formed by a diagonal line connecting
two (2) points located on intersecting streets and a line connecting the two
(2) points on the curb line.
SIGN: Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors or visible from outdoors, which is used to advertise, identify,
display, direct or attract attention to an object, person, institution,
organization, business, product, service, event or location by any means,
including words, letters, figures, design, symbols, fixtures, colors,
illumination or projected images. This definition does not include national or
state flags or their emblems or insignia, interior window displays, athletic
scoreboards, or religious symbols.
SIGN AREA: The area of the largest single face of the sign within a perimeter
which forms the outside shape, including any frame which forms an integral part
of the display, but excluding the necessary supports or uprights on which the
sign may be placed. If the sign consists of more than one section or module,
all areas will be totaled.
SIGN HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the top of the sign or sign structure,
whichever is greater, to the ground directly below, measured from a point of
equal distance from the sides or edges of the sign.
SPITE SIGN: Any sign erected solely and intentionally for the specific purpose
of hiding or covering from the view of the public an adjacent or nearby sign.
STATIC IMAGE: Characterized by a lack of movement, animation or progression.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A detached sign made of nonrigid material, designed and
displayed for a seasonal or brief activity such as, but not limited to, sales,
specials, promotions, holidays, auctions, business grand openings, and signs
advertising the lease or vacancy of rental units in multi-unit residential
developments.
TRANSITION TIME: The duration or interval of time between which each individual
advertisement and message is displayed on any sign which is capable of
sequentially displaying more than one advertisement or message on its display
surface.
UNLAWFUL (NUISANCE) SIGN: A sign or sign structure which is unlawfully erected
or is unlawful for reasons of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster, damage, abandonment as declared by the
appropriate city officials. Such signs may be declared a nuisance.
VARIANCE: A departure from any height, setback, size or other physical
standards of this chapter for a specific size, except use, without changing the
zoning ordinance or the underlying zoning of the parcel. A variance is granted
only upon demonstration of hardship based on the peculiarity of the property in
relation to other properties in the same zone district.
WALL SIGN: Any sign that shall be affixed parallel to but within twelve inches
(12") of, the wall or printed on the wall of any building in such a manner as
to be read parallel to the wall on which it is mounted, provided, however, said
wall sign shall project above the top of the wall or beyond the end of the
building. For the purpose of this chapter, any sign display surface that is
affixed flat against the sloping surface of a mansard roof shall be considered
a wall sign. Any sign display surface that is affixed to the windows, benches,
building marquee, building awning, or a building canopy shall be considered a
wall sign.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign that is directly applied to the inside surface of a window
as a vinyl or screen printed application. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Officer: The designees of the city’s public works
department, police department, and fire and EMS department are authorized to
enforce all provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Interpretation; Appeals: The departments shall have the power to render
interpretations of this chapter and enforce rules and supplemental regulations
in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations,
rules and regulations shall be in conformance with the intent and purpose of
this chapter. Appeals of such interpretations shall be submitted to the city
board of adjustment as set forth in the city building code and zoning code.
   C.   Inspection: When necessary to make an inspection and enforce the
provisions of this chapter the designated official who has a reasonable cause
to believe a sign or a condition exists that may be in violation of this
chapter or this code, may enter the premises at a reasonable time to inspect
and enforce this chapter, provided credentials be presented to the occupant and
entry requested. If the premises are not occupied, the designated official
shall make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
charge or control of the premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the
designated official shall resort to the remedies provided by law to secure
entry.
   D.   Stop Work Order: Whenever any work is being done contrary to this
chapter or other applicable laws or ordinances, the designated official may
order such work stopped by notice in writing served on any person performing or
permitting such work to be done. Work must then be stopped until authorized by
the designated official.
   E.   Responsibility: This chapter shall not be construed to relieve or
reduce the responsibility to any person owning, operating or controlling any
sign or sign structure liability for any damages to persons or property caused
by defects, nor shall the city be deemed to have assumed any liability by
reason of any act or omission including, but not limited to, conducting any
inspection authorized by this chapter or any permits issued under this chapter.
   F.   Unlawful Declaration: The designated official may declare any sign
unlawful or a nuisance by reason of inadequate maintenance, improper placement,
dilapidation, abandonment or for having been erected in violation of this code
or other statute or federal law.
   G.   Property Owner Responsible For Violations: The property owner of any
unlawful sign or sign structure shall be responsible for such violations.
   H.   Nuisance: Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, an unlawful
sign is declared a nuisance and may be abated as such under applicable state
law and city ordinances.
   I.   Appeals, Variances, Conditional Uses, And Zoning Changes: Title 10,
"Zoning Regulations", of this code provides the procedure for applicants for
sign permits who seek installation, erection, alteration, relocation, or
placement of signs in a location that may not be permitted for such placement.
   J.   Liability Insurance: All installers, contractors or other persons
engaged in the business of sign or outdoor advertising that erects, maintains
or leases signs in the city's jurisdiction shall provide the appropriate city
official certificate of liability insurance and bonding as may be required by
the city and/or the state of South Dakota if work may encroach or include
public property or public rights of way.
   K.   Removal; Disposal: The city's code enforcement official may remove and
dispose of signs not in compliance with this chapter, if there is persistent
noncompliance. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013; amd. Ord. O2020-14, 12-7-2020)
9-4-4: PERMITS; EXEMPT, PROHIBITED AND NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Permits Required: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it
shall be unlawful for any person to erect, alter, install or relocate within
the city's zoning jurisdiction any "sign" as defined in this chapter, without
first obtaining a permit from the designated official and making applicable
payment of the appropriate fees if so required.
   B.   Exempt Signs: No permit shall be required for the following exempt
signs:
      1.   A nonilluminated nonprojecting on premises wall sign less than ten
(10) square feet in area.
      2.   A nonilluminated projecting on premises sign not more than five (5)
square feet in area and projecting not more than twenty four inches (24")
beyond the property line.
      3.   Temporary construction signs denoting construction and parties
involved in such construction. The sign shall not be installed until a building
permit has been issued. A construction sign must be removed within fourteen
(14) calendar days after substantial completion of the project.
      4.   Items considered maintenance, repairs, and alterations to an
existing lawful sign.
      5.   Temporary banners for special or civic events or promotions.
      6.   Any public information signs located on public property or public
rights of way.
      7.   Artwork that does not include a commercial message.
      8.   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message.
      9.   Public information signs on private property, including, but not
limited to, "Stop", "Yield", and similar signs, which meet South Dakota
department of transportation, city of Mitchell and Davison County standards and
do not contain commercial messages.
      10.   Signs or graphics on vending machines.
      11.   On premises directional signs that do not exceed ten (10) square
feet in area.
      12.   Flags.
      13.   "No Trespassing" or "No Dumping" signs or similar messages.
      14.   Plaques or nameplate signs which do not exceed ten (10) square feet
in area and which are fastened directly to the building and do not contain
commercial messages. Names and addresses may be listed.
      15.   Real estate signs shall be located on the property listed for sale
or lease. Off premises open house/auction signs may be placed no more than ten
(10) calendar days prior to the open house/auction and must be removed within
forty eight (48) hours afterward.
      16.   Window signs covering up to seventy five percent (75%) of the area
per window.
      17.   Political signs:
         a.   May not be located within a required sight view triangle.
         b.   Temporary political signs may not be placed more than sixty (60)
calendar days prior to an election date and shall be removed within ten (10)
calendar days after an election date.
         c.   The signs shall display required campaign finance information as
set forth in law and comply with election laws relating to polling places.
      18.   Identifying logos which do not advertise a product or service on
municipally owned water storage reservoirs, unless approved by the city
council.
      19.   Aerial signs (balloons).
      20.   Temporary on premises or off premises signs from educational
institutions, religious institutions, nonprofit organizations, governmental and
philanthropic institutions that are educational, cultural, religious,
benevolent, charitable, or recreational in nature, and that provide a message
of a civic event. The following requirements shall apply:
         a.   The size shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet.
         b.   The height of the sign shall not exceed eight feet (8').
         c.   Portable signs shall be properly anchored.
         d.   Signs shall not be placed within a required sight view triangle
area.
         e.   Banners shall be secured to a building, structure or fence at all
times.
         f.   Signs may be placed thirty (30) days prior to an event and shall
be removed within five (5) days of the termination of the event.
         g.   Any on premises portable sandwich board sign may remain on
display to the public only during the hours of business operation and allow for
safe pedestrian traffic and compliance with the Americans with disabilities
act.
      21.   Religious symbols.
      22.   Rummage, garage sales and similar sales taking place in residential
areas.
      23.   Rock signs.
      24.   Portable public information signs under the direction of the city
officials or other governmental agency.
      25.   Home occupation signs complying with title 10, "Zoning
Regulations", of this code.
      26.   Residential yard signs:
         a.   The total square footage allowed for temporary signs on a
residential lot shall not exceed eight (8) square feet with no individual sign
exceeding six (6) square feet and no more than two (2) signs displayed at any
one time.
         b.   The total square footage allowed for temporary signs on a
residential lot during a special event/election shall not exceed twenty four
(24) square feet with no individual sign exceeding six (6) square feet and no
more than six (6) signs displayed at any one time.
      27.   Bulletin boards and kiosks.
      28.   Signs and messages on operable vehicles.
   C.   Sign Permit Process:
      1.   Expiration: Every sign permit issued by the city shall expire by
limitation and become null and void if construction, erection or installation
does not commence within sixty (60) calendar days from date of permit issuance,
and shall expire by limitation in one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from
the date of permit issuance. For good cause, the designated official may extend
the time of permit validity for an additional one hundred twenty (120) calendar
days.
      2.   Number Of Signs: Any permit issued may authorize one or more signs.
      3.   Assignment Of Sign Permits: A current and valid permanent sign
permit shall be freely assignable to a successor in interest to the property
upon which such permanent sign was originally constructed, erected or
installed.
      4.   Permit Prohibited: No permit shall be issued to any property upon
which there exists any unlawful sign at the time of making permit application;
however, a permit may be issued for both the removal of any unlawful sign and
the erection of a lawful sign.
      5.   Fees: Each application for a sign permit shall be accompanied by the
applicable fees that shall be established by the governing body from time to
time by resolution.
      6.   Application Procedure: The following procedure shall govern the
application for, and issuance of, all sign permits under this chapter and signs
not classified as exempt signs.
         a.   Permanent Signs:
            (1)   All applications for construction, placement, modification
and installation of permanent signs, excluding exempt signs and activities
considered maintenance of an existing permanent sign, must be accompanied by
the following:
               (A)   Name and address of owner of the property upon which the
sign is to be erected, name and address of the sign owner and the name of the
sign contractor/installer who will erect/install the sign.
               (B)   A detailed site plan showing the exact location and
orientation of the sign(s) relative to all property lines, building lines,
parking lots, driveways, size and type of existing signs on the property and
other pertinent land and architectural features the city may require. The city
reserves the right to require written documentation from the property owner
verification of the accuracy of property lines.
               (C)   An elevation drawing showing the sign height above the
grade. Photographs with proposed images cropped or a rendering may be required.
               (D)   The dimensions of the sign facing.
               (E)   The design features of the sign, including, but not
limited to, illumination, materials or physical characteristics.
               (F)   Completed sign permit application.
               (G)   Required fee is remitted.
            (2)   Permits issued for permanent signs shall be deemed perpetual,
and shall not terminate unless:
               (A)   The sign has been abandoned.
               (B)   The business activity or identified entity which existed
at the time the sign permit was issued is discontinued for a period of one
hundred eighty (180) days or more.
               (C)   The type, size, height, location or illumination is
changed, altered or modified.
               (D)   The sign has been relocated.
         b.   Temporary Signs: All applications for the construction, creation,
placement or installation of certain temporary signs that are not exempt signs
and/or the modification or change of location of such signs, must be
accompanied by the following to enable permit issuance:
            (1)   Name and address of owner of the property upon which the sign
is to be erected, name and address of the sign owner, and name of the sign
contractor erecting the permitted sign.
            (2)   A site plan showing the exact location and orientation of the
sign(s) relative to all property lot lines.
            (3)   A drawing showing the sign height and facing dimensions.
            (4)   The type of illumination or other characteristics of the
sign.
            (5)   Completed sign permit application.
            (6)   Required fee is remitted.
         c.   Application Review: The designated official shall review all sign
permit applications and render a decision on permit issuance within ten (10)
business days.
   D.   Prohibited Signs:
      1.   Signs displaying words or pictures of obscene or pornographic
material.
      2.   Signs that emit sound, odor, visible matter.
      3.   Animation, flashing, blinking or any other such lighting or
depictions not providing constant illumination, but not including electronic
message centers.
      4.   Abandoned signs and unlawful signs.
      5.   Signs that replicate traffic control signs or signals and which
display words including, but not limited to, "Stop", "Go", "Danger", "Warning"
unless installed or approved by a governmental agency.
      6.   Signs attached to trees in the public right of way, utility poles,
public beaches, street and traffic lights, street signs or placed on any public
property or public right of way, unless approved by the city of Mitchell.
      7.   Signs that obstruct the vision or interfere with traffic control
signs, signals, or lights in the public right of way.
      8.   Signs that obstruct any required egress or ingress to and from a
building or structure.
      9.   Signs that obstruct the sight view triangle.
      10.   Off premises wall signs, with the exception of historic and
culturally significant signs and ghost signs in the central business district
(CB).
      11.   Spite signs.
   E.   Legally Nonconforming Signs: Any permanent sign existing after the date
of the adoption of this chapter, that does not conform to the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed a legal nonconforming sign. Such sign may remain,
but once the sign is removed the sign may be replaced except for the following:
      1.   Any abandoned sign.
      2.   Any sign declared unlawful or a nuisance by the designated city
official.
      3.   Any sign in which the type, size, height, location or illumination
is changed after enactment of the effective date of this chapter.
      4.   Any sign which has been damaged by more than fifty percent (50%) of
the replacement value of the sign at the time of such damage. The sign shall be
brought into conformance with this chapter when it is temporarily or
permanently removed by any means, including an act of God or other means. In
the event of repair, the damaged sign shall be brought into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. All other signs which remain on the property on the
site of such damage will be allowed to remain until such time as they are
required to be replaced.
      5.   Maintenance as defined herein may be performed upon legally
established nonconforming permanent signs. A legally established nonconforming
permanent sign may be restored, reconstructed, altered, or repaired only in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
      6.   Any sign which is deemed to be historically significant, as
determined by the historic preservation commission, is exempt from this
section.
      7.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any legal
nonconforming off premises sign may be reconstructed by the current permit
holder in the same location as it currently exists so long as the alterations
or reconstruction of the sign bring it into compliance with all the provisions
of this chapter with the exception of any spacing requirements between signs.
(Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013; amd. Ord. O2020-14, 12-7-2020)
9-4-5: DESIGN, PLACEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance With Applicable Codes: All signs and their supporting
structures shall comply with the applicable codes involving building standards,
including, but not limited to, wind loads, seismic loads, or other combined
loads.
   B.   Permanent, Attached Signs: All permanent signs shall be permanently
attached to the ground, a building or another structure and by direct
attachment to a rigid wall, frame or structure.
   C.   Minimum Standard Of Quality: Signs shall be constructed to a minimum
standard of quality as specified by this code and state or federal codes for
noncombustibility, steel, smoke density, ignition properties, and
classification of plastics.
   D.   Electrical Signs:
      1.   Signs using electricity as a power source, hereafter referred to as
electrical signs, shall be constructed in accordance with provisions of the
state electrical code and industry standards. All electrical signs constructed
must be energized by a licensed electrician.
      2.   Electrical signs and outline lighting shall be marked with the
manufacturer's name, voltage input, input rating, and a label of a state or
nationally recognized testing which shall be located where visible and readable
from the grade and near the disconnect.
      3.   Each electrical sign or outline lighting system shall have an
externally operable disconnect means and be located within sight of the sign or
outline lighting transformer.
      4.   Electrical signs may be illuminated internally or externally as long
as the lighting is directed away from the public rights of way and adjacent
residential areas.
   E.   Clearance At Location: Signs shall be located not less than six feet
(6') horizontally or twelve feet (12') vertically from overhead electrical
conductors or wires which are energized in excess of four hundred fifty (450)
volts. The term "overhead conductors" as used in this subsection means any
electrical conductor, either bare or insulated, installed above the ground,
except such conductors as are enclosed in iron pipe or other material covering
of equal strength. The utility providers may have additional requirements and
installers of a sign shall comply with such requirements.
   F.   Fire Escapes, Exits Or Standpipes: No sign or sign structure shall be
erected in such a manner that any portion of its surface or supports will
interfere in any way with the free use of any fire escape, exit or standpipe.
   G.   Responsibility: It is the responsibility of the property owner and/or
the installer of the sign to contact the appropriate utility providers that may
have utility lines or facilities located on the property in which the sign is
to be installed. The property owner is required to comply with the requirements
of the respective utility providers. The property owner and/or sign installer
is responsible for any damages as a result of any encroachments onto adjacent
property.
   H.   Computation Of Area And Height:
      1.   Computation Of Area Of Individual Signs: The area of sign face
(which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only 1 face)
shall be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle,
or combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing, or decorative
fence or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets city regulations and is
clearly incidental to the display itself.
      2.   Computation Of Area Of Multifaced Signs: The sign area of a sign
with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of all
sign faces visible from any one point. When two (2) identical sign faces are
placed back to back, so that faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same
time, and when the sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are not
more than forty two inches (42") apart, the sign area shall be computed by
measurement of one of the faces.
      3.   Computation Of Height: The height of a sign shall be computed as the
distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest
attached component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower
of the existing grade prior to construction and the newly established grade
after construction.
         a.   Exhibits:
   COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA
   COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA OF INDIVIDUAL
   SIGNS OF INDIVIDUALLY MOUNTED LETTERS OR
   SYMBOLS AND AWNING AND CANOPY SIGNS
   HEIGHT OF SIGN WITH GRADE MOUNTING
   I.   Sight View Triangle At Intersections:
      1.   Except where zoning setback requirements allow building construction
closer to the property lines, it is hereby declared unlawful for any person to
erect or maintain upon private property any sign which obstructs the view of
vehicle traffic at any intersection within a triangular area formed by the
adjacent sidelines of the two (2) intersecting streets and the line joining
points distant thirty five feet (35') on each sideline from their point of
intersection unless the sign in question is less than three feet (3') or twelve
feet (12') or more above the level of the right of way and shall not exceed ten
inches (10") in diameter.
      2.   Freestanding signs with supports shall not be located within twelve
feet (12') of the sideline of streets, unless the sign is located outside the
sight view triangle and outside the public right of way.
      3.   For the purpose of this subsection "sideline of street" shall mean
the curb line on those streets where curb is installed, and where curb is not
installed "sideline of street" shall mean that line which otherwise would be
the curb line if a standard city street with curb were installed and centered
within in the public right of way.
   J.   Maintenance Of Signs:
      1.   Maintenance Required: All signs and sign support structures,
together with all their supports, braces, guys and anchors shall be kept in
good repair and in a proper state of maintenance.
      2.   Maintenance Activities: Activities considered maintenance that do
not require a permit may include: replacing of defective or damaged parts such
as lamps; replacing ballast in freestanding signs; replacing transformers in
building identification signs; painting and/or repainting of the pole of
freestanding signs or the cabinet of freestanding or building identification
signs; replacing H-bars and retainers behind the face; replacing trim;
replacement of sign fasteners, nuts, and washers; and temporary removal of the
sign cabinet for the installation of a new sign face. A maintained sign
structure shall have a sign face. A permit may not be required; however
notification to the designated city official may be required prior to
conducting the activity.
      3.   Activities Not Considered Maintenance: The following items are not
considered maintenance and shall require any sign undergoing the following
activities to conform to this chapter thus requiring a permit unless there is a
determination the sign is an exempt sign. Maintenance shall not include any
changes made to the size, height, light intensity or bulk of the sign, such as
changes in poles, structural supports, bases or shrouds, footings or anchor
bolts, moving the sign for any reason, change or replacement of the interior
and/or exterior cabinet frame (excluding trim) and removal of any part of the
signs for maintenance except the sign face. For building signs, maintenance
shall not include change in the size of channel letters or any change or
replacement of returns or housing except for the sign face and trim. For
single-face cabinet signs, maintenance shall not include changes or replacement
of the interior/exterior cabinets nor the cabinet support structures.
   K.   Sign Restrictions In Relation To Public Rights Of Way: No sign shall be
erected in or encroach upon the public right of way except:
      1.   Public Information Signs: Public information signs erected or
installed on behalf of a governmental body to identify public property, convey
public information and direct or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      2.   Public Utility Information Signs: Informational signs by a public
utility regarding poles, lines, pipes or facilities.
      3.   Historic Commercial District: Awning, canopy, marquee, projecting
and suspended signs in the historic downtown commercial district provided they
are in conformance with applicable sections of this chapter and allowed under
state and/or federal guidelines. Sandwich boards are permitted, however they
shall be placed against the buildings, provide sufficient spacing to allow
pedestrian traffic and be in compliance with the Americans with disabilities
act.
      4.   Awnings Over Sidewalks: No person shall erect or maintain
projecting, marquee, awning, hanging signs that extend lower than nine feet
(9') above the sidewalk. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-6: GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS:
9-4-6-1: ON PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Intent: The following regulations provide standards for the erection
and maintenance of on premises signs. The principal feature of this section is
the regulation on the total sign area permissible per site. All signs shall be
erected and maintained in accordance with the following standards.
   B.   Sign Messages: Subject to the property owner's consent, a noncommercial
message of any type may be substituted for any duly permitted or allowed
noncommercial message; provided that the sign structure or mounting device is
lawful without consideration of the message's content. Such substitution of
message may be made without any additional approval or permitting. This
provision prevails over any provision to the contrary in this chapter. The
purpose of this provision is to prevent any inadvertent favoring of a
commercial message over a noncommercial message, or favoring of any particular
noncommercial message over any other noncommercial message. This provision does
not create a right to increase the total amount of signage on a parcel, nor
does it affect the requirement that a sign structure or mounting device be
properly permitted.
   C.   Noncommercial Messages: All noncommercial messages are considered on
premises signs and are entitled to the privileges that on premises signs
receive under this chapter. Noncommercial messages are messages not classified
as commercial messages; which include, but are not limited to, messages
concerning political, religious, social, ideological, public service and
informational topics. Commercial messages are speech or graphics advertising a
business, enterprise, provision, commodity, service or entertainment.
   D.   On Premises Signage Review Overlay District:
      1.   This district is to provide developing and redeveloping areas in the
highway oriented business district (HB), neighborhood shopping district (NS),
transportation, warehousing, and commercial district (TWC), and industrial
district (I) located in the identified on premises signage review overlay
district standards for placement of on premises freestanding signs. The
boundaries of this district are shown upon an exhibit adopted with these
provisions.
      2.   On premises freestanding signs shall not exceed a height of forty
five feet (45') with the exception of on premises freestanding signs placed in
the designated on premises signage review overlay district. On premises
freestanding signs in this district shall not exceed a height that exceeds the
elevation of one thousand four hundred feet (1,400') according to the United
States geodetic survey. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-6-2: AERIAL SIGNS:
Aerial, balloon or inflatable signs may be displayed without a permit; however
they must comply with the following conditions:
   A.   They do not interfere with utility lines, antennas or towers.
   B.   No cabling, tie downs or tether lines are located on or across publicly
owned property unless approved by the city.
   C.   They are not located in airport approach zone. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-6-3: BANNERS:
   A.   Districts Allowed: Banners are allowed in all the following districts
provided they comply with the standards in subsection B of this section:
Neighborhood shopping district (NS)
Highway oriented business district (HB)
Central business district (CB)
Transportation, warehousing, commercial district (TWC)
Industrial district (I)
Public lands district (PL)
   B.   Standards:
      1.   Banners are not permitted to be placed on any property that does not
have a principal structure.
      2.   Banners may not be used for off premises commercial advertising,
with the exception of civic events.
      3.   In the event a property has only one side which abuts a public right
of way then one banner will be allowed, provided said banner does not exceed
twenty four (24) square feet.
      4.   In the event a property abuts two (2) or more streets or public
rights of way, no more than two (2) banners will be allowed and not more than
one banner will be allowed to face any such right of way provided no banner
exceeds twenty four (24) square feet.
      5.   In the event a parcel contains more than one business or occupant;
only one banner will be allowed to face each street or public right of way per
business or occupant.
      6.   Any banner must be securely fastened to a building or secured to a
permanent foundation minimally consisting of four inch (4") nominal diameter
post concreted in the ground to a depth of thirty inches (30").
      7.   Shopping center or strip malls shall be allowed one banner per
business or tenant.
      8.   Temporary banners attached to or suspended under or over a marquee
are allowed; provided that no portion of such banners is less than nine feet
(9') above the sidewalk and provided also, that no more than three (3) banners
be attached or suspended under or over any marquee. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-6-4: OFF PREMISES SIGNS:
   A.   Support Structures: Off Premises freestanding signs shall have at least
one visible structural support.
   B.   Tone Of Support Structures: Off premises sign support structure(s)
shall be of a neutral and nonmetallic tone.
   C.   Variance: In the highway oriented business district (HB),
transportation, warehousing and commercial district (TWC), and industrial
district (I) off premises signs may be allowed to be greater than three hundred
(300) square feet in size, by variance granted by the board of adjustment to a
maximum of six hundred (600) square feet and shall not conflict with state or
federal law.
   D.   Sign Faces: Off premises signs shall have no more than two (2) sign
faces.
   E.   Space Between Faces: The faces of off premises signs shall be mounted
parallel or up to a maximum of thirty degrees (30°) between one another.
   F.   Sight View Triangle: Off premises signs shall not be located within any
sight view triangle.
   G.   Separation From On Premises Sign: Off premises signs shall be separated
by not less than fifty feet (50') from any on premises sign.
   H.   Property Owner Consent: Off premises sign permits shall not be issued
for any property without the designated official having first been provided
written consent of the property owner or their agent.
   I.   Light Trespass: The light from any light source intended to illuminate
an off premises sign shall be so shaded, shielded or directed so that the light
intensity or brightness shall not emit lighting directly on any adjoining
property, or shall the source of illumination produce a glare clearly visible
beyond a property line, or adversely affect safe vision of pedestrians or
operators of vehicles moving on public or private streets, driveways or parking
areas. Electrical service to all off premises signs shall be provided an
underground service lateral.
   J.   Conversion: No on premises sign may be converted to an off premises
sign without notification to the designated official and a permit is secured.
   K.   Political And Election Billboards: Political and election issue
billboards may be displayed at any time in all zoning districts allowing off
premises advertising as provided in this chapter.
   L.   Location In Certain Venues: Off premises signs may be placed entirely
within publicly owned sports venues, community centers, auditoriums, public
parks, and educational institutions, governmental buildings or community
theater and directed to the participants and spectators located within such
venues, but not adjacent rights of way, may be up to one hundred (100) square
feet in size and contain off site advertising and sponsorship acknowledgment.
   M.   Direction Of Faces: No more than one sign face per direction facing and
no more than two (2) parallel sign faces on any one sign structure.
   N.   Minimum Setback: The minimum setback from the sign face to the property
line shall be ten feet (10') in the highway oriented business district (HB),
transportation, warehousing and commercial district (TWC), and industrial
district (I) unless approved by a variance.
   O.   Overlap Into Setback Not Allowed: No part of the off premises sign face
or structure will be allowed to exist in or overlap into the required setbacks,
unless approved by a variance.
   P.   Measurement Of Distance Between Signs: The distance between off
premises signs shall be measured from the two (2) nearest points of each sign
in all directions.
   Q.   Distance From Another Off Premises Sign: Off premises signs shall not
be within a three hundred foot (300') radius of any other off premises sign to
be read from the same right of way under control of the city of Mitchell:
      1.   The sign shall not be within a one hundred fifty foot (150') radius
of any other off premises sign intended to be read from a different right of
way;
      2.   The sign shall be no closer than a five hundred foot (500') radius
from any existing off premises sign on a state controlled right of way and
comply with South Dakota department of transportation regulations or state law.
      3.   No off premises sign may be placed within a three hundred foot
(300') radius from the property line of a public park, public or parochial
school, postsecondary institution, religious institution, viaduct, designated
historic site, and publicly owned indoor or outdoor recreational facility.
   R.   Legitimate Business Enterprise: Off premises signs are recognized as a
legitimate business enterprise but are not considered to be an accessory land
use.
   S.   Distance From Public Street: Off premises signs shall not be located
closer than fifty feet (50') to any intersection of public street right of way
nor access point (driveway, approach, etc.) to a public street.
   T.   Illumination:
      1.   Off premises signs which are illuminated by any flashing,
intermittent or moving light(s) are prohibited.
      2.   Off premises signs shall not be illuminated so as to interfere with
vehicular or pedestrian traffic in any way.
      3.   Off premises signs shall not be so illuminated that it interferes
with the effectiveness of, or obscures an official traffic sign, device or
signal.
      4.   Off premises signs located on state controlled rights of way shall
comply with state regulations, standards and laws.
   U.   Height: Off premises freestanding signs shall have a minimum height of
twelve feet (12') and not to exceed a height of forty five feet (45'), with the
exception of off premises freestanding signs placed in the designated off
premises signage review overlay district. Off premises freestanding signs in
this district shall not exceed a height that exceeds the elevation of one
thousand four hundred feet (1,400') according to the United States geodetic
survey. The boundaries of this district are shown upon an exhibit adopted with
these provisions. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-6-5: DIGITAL OFF PREMISES BILLBOARDS:
New digital off premises billboards shall be permitted and conforming static
off premises billboards may be converted to digital off premises billboards in
zoning districts where off premises billboards are permitted subject to all
applicable regulations pertaining to off premises billboards as well as the
following:
   A.   Digital off premises billboards shall display static images for a
period of at least six (6) seconds before instantaneously transitioning to
another static image.
   B.   All digital off premises billboards shall come equipped with automatic
dimming technology which automatically adjusts the sign's brightness based on
ambient light conditions.
   C.   No digital off premises billboard shall exceed a brightness level of
0.3 foot-candle above ambient lights as measured using a foot-candle meter or
similar device at the present distance depending on sign area, measured as
follows:
 
Dimensions    Measurement Distance
(Feet)        (Feet)
    11 x 2150
    10.5 x200
    14 x 4250
    20 x 6350
 
(Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-6-6: ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTERS:
Electronic message centers shall be subject to all applicable restrictions
within this chapter, including, but not limited to, area, height and placement,
as well as the following conditions:
   A.   Electronic message sign displays shall be limited to displays, which
have gradual movements, including, but not limited to, dissolving, fading,
scrolling, or traveling. However, sudden movement is prohibited, including, but
not limited to, blinking and flashing.
   B.   Any permitted signs may be, or may include as an individual component
of the total sign area, electronic message signs.
   C.   Electronic message centers or graphic displays may be changed at
periodic intervals prescribed as follows:
      1.   Such signs shall come equipped with automatic dimming technology
which automatically adjusts the sign's brightness based on ambient light
conditions.
      2.   No electronic message sign shall exceed a brightness level of 0.3
foot-candle above ambient light as measured using a foot- candle meter at a
preset distance depending on sign area:
Area Of Sign  Measurement Distance
(Square Feet) (Feet)
Area Of Sign  Measurement Distance
(Square Feet) (Feet)
10            32
15            39
20            45
25            50
30            55
35            59
40            63
45            67
50            71
55            74
60            77
65            81
70            84
75            87
80            89
85            92
90            95
95            97
100           100
 
      3.   For signs with an area in square feet other than those specifically
listed in the table in this section (i.e., 12 square feet, 400 square feet,
etc.) the measurement distance may be calculated with the following formula:
The square root of the product of the sign area and 100
Example: 12 square foot sign: Measurement distance = (12 square feet x 100) =
34.6
      4.   The brightness measurement shall be performed as follows:
         a.   At least thirty (30) minutes after sunset or thirty (30) minutes
before sunrise, the appropriate city official shall measure and determine the
sign's brightness by aiming a foot- candle meter directly at the sign. The
measurement will be taken as close as possible to the above prescribed distance
from the sign face measured.
         b.   After the sign brightness has been determined, the appropriate
city official shall contact the sign owner or the owner's agent to schedule a
time to measure and determine the ambient light conditions with the electronic
message center off or while displaying all black copy. The ambient light
reading shall be taken with the same foot-candle meter at the same location
used to establish the sign's brightness.
         c.   Once the two (2) light readings have been determined, the second
measurement reading shall be subtracted from the first measurement reading. To
be in compliance with this standard, the difference of the two (2) readings
shall be 0.3 foot-candle or less.
   D.   Electronic message center signs shall be permitted uses in all
nonresidential districts and shall be subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Such signs shall display static images lasting for a period of one
second before transitioning to another static image.
      2.   Message transitions may contain frame effects as defined, so long as
flashing is not utilized.
   E.   All electronic message center signs in a residential zoning district
shall require a conditional use permit.
      1.   All electronic message centers in residential zoning districts shall
not be illuminated between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.
      2.   Such signs shall display static images lasting for a period of three
(3) second before transitioning to another static image.
      3.   Message transitions of such signs shall occur instantaneously and
may not utilize animation, frame effects or flashing. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-6-7: HISTORIC COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
The historic commercial district consists of the boundaries designated by the
South Dakota historic preservation office and signs requiring a permit to be
erected, installed or placed in the district shall be subject to the following
requirements.
   A.   Permit And Compliance Requirements:
      1.   Permit And Compliance: No permanent sign which is not an exempt sign
shall be erected within the historic commercial district of the city except in
compliance with the terms and regulations of this section, and after a permit
for the same has been acquired in accordance with the terms of this section.
      2.   Application For Permit: An application for a sign permit to be
installed within the historic commercial district must be submitted to the
historic preservation commission and the city of Mitchell planning office on
such form as said commission may prescribe, showing size, color, texture,
illumination, materials and including a detailed drawing of the proposed
signage. A photograph of the property and structure, a photograph or scaled
drawing of the property or structure with the proposed sign sketched on it,
color chips or color samples of the same colors that are to be used for the
sign, and a scaled drawing of the proposed sign depicting the sign fonts and
other attributes as they will actually appear on the sign must also be
submitted.
      3.   Commission Review: The historic preservation commission shall review
each sign request. The commission may not require that any applicant change or
alter a franchise logo or corporate commercial logo as a condition for approval
of an application under this section.
      4.   Appeal To City Council: Any applicant whose sign application is
denied by the historic preservation commission may appeal the decision to the
city council which shall have the final decision on the granting or denial of
the application. The commission shall be required to provide written reasons
for denial of the permit.
   B.   Sign Requirements: All signs that require a permit and are within the
historic commercial district, in addition to all other regulations which govern
signs in the city, except to the extent deviation or exception is granted or
required by the historic preservation commission, shall conform to the
following requirements:
      1.   Number Limited: Signage may be limited to one sign per twenty five
feet (25') of frontage. If a building has more than one tenant, the sign may
display the name and address of the building and a directory of tenants. If a
property is occupied by more than one tenant and lists separate ground level
entries for each tenant, the historic preservation commission may grant
permission for additional signage. Corner properties will be allowed a sign on
each street face.
      2.   Design Criteria: Lettering and numbering style for signage or
identification will be in accordance with the period of the dominant features
of the current facade and may not detract from appropriate period detailing.
Signs may list the building name and address. Advertising and tenant
information may be incorporated within the sign. Signs may display information
such as the name of firm or logo.
   C.   Prior Existing Nonconforming Signs: All signs legally in existence
within the historic commercial district and not conforming to the requirements
of this section shall be allowed to continue in existence in its present form,
subject to the maintenance requirements of this chapter, until such time as
such sign needs replacing or the business to which such sign relates is
terminated. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-6-8: HISTORICALLY OR CULTURALLY SIGNIFICANT SIGNS:
Signs that have historical or cultural significance to the city but do not
conform to the provisions of this chapter may be permitted by the Mitchell
historic preservation commission, provided that the following regulations and
procedures are followed:
   A.   Application for historical or culturally significant sign is completed
and submitted to the historic preservation commission.
   B.   The historic preservation commission approves the request, adopting
findings supporting the historical or cultural significance of the sign, and
advises the designated official to issue a historical or culturally significant
sign permit.
   C.   Criteria to determine a finding of historical or cultural significance
include, but are not limited to: South Dakota agricultural or western image;
nostalgic significance; character, design, or materials that represent a
particular historical period; landmark recognition; and character or design
that are recognizably important to one or more cultures. Signs that are hand
painted directly on the surface of a building and include artistic work without
being a mural, in addition to a commercial message, such as a ghost sign, may
be eligible for a finding of cultural significance. Historic or cultural nature
of signage may be significant to society generally or in the context of the
Mitchell community particularly. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-6-9: SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Within the residential districts, the signs are subject to the following
regulations and no permit is required:
   A.   Nameplate/Home Occupation, Home Childcare, And Single-Family: One
single surfaced nameplate sign may be located on the property provided the sign
does not exceed two (2) square feet in area. Such sign may indicate the name of
the occupants, address, and the type of the home occupation, if such exists.
   B.   Nameplate/Multi-Family: One single or double surfaced nameplate sign
for each apartment complex of six (6) or more units, which shall not exceed six
(6) square feet in area per surface. Such sign may indicate the names and
addresses of the buildings or project, or may be a directory for the occupants
or state any combination of the above information.
   C.   Yard Ornaments: Symbols, statues, sculptures and integrated
architectural features on nonresidential buildings may be illuminated by
floodlights, provided the direct source of light is not visible from the public
right of way or adjacent residential property; light trespass is prohibited.
   D.   Illuminated Flashing Signs: Illuminated flashing signs shall not be
permitted.
   E.   Promoting Residential Project: For the purpose of selling or promoting
a residential project of six (6) or more lots/dwelling units, a sign or signs
shall not exceed the aggregate of one hundred (100) square feet and may be
erected upon the project site and be maintained until each of the lots or units
has been sold, rented or leased. At such time the sign shall be removed and
future signs subject to this chapter.
   F.   Rock signs.
   G.   Residential yard signs.
   H.   Commercial structures located in residential districts shall comply
with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
9-4-7: TABLES:
   A.   Table 1; Signs By Type And Zoning District: Permitted signs shall be
allowed on real property in accordance with table 1 of this section. If the
letter "E" appears for a sign type in a column, such sign is exempt and allowed
without prior permit approval in the zoning districts represented by that
column. If the letter "P" appears for a sign type in a column, such sign is
allowed only with prior permit approval in the zoning districts represented by
that column. (*) indicates special standards may apply in some cases. If the
letter "N" appears for a sign type in a column, such a sign is not allowed in
the zoning districts represented by that column under any circumstances. A sign
designated by a "P" shall be allowed only if it conforms to all other
applicable requirements of this chapter.
   TABLE 1
Sign Type Zoning Districts
          R-1, R-2 R-3, R-4 CB NS HB TWC I PL UD
Sign Type                 Zoning Districts
                          R-1, R-2 R-3, R-4 CB NS HB TWC I  PL UD
Freestanding:                                           
 Ground (monument)*      P        P        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
 Off premises sign       N        N        N  N  P* P*  P* N  P
 Pole*                   P        P        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
Building:                                               
 Canopy/awning*          N        P        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
 Ghost                   N        N        P  N  N  N   N  N  N
 Integral                E        E        E  E  E  E   E  E  E
 Marquee*                N        P        P  P  P  N   N  N  N
 Mural                   N        N        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
 Off premises sign       N        N        N  N  P  P   P  P  N
 Projecting/hanging      N        P        P  P  P  P   P  P  N
 Roof                    N        N        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
 Wall                    P        P        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
 Window                  E        E        E  E  E  E   E  E  EMiscell aneous:
 Aerial*                 E        E        E  E  E  E   E  E  E
 Banner*                 E        E        E  E  E  E   E  E  E
 Flag                    E        E        E  E  E  E   E  E  E
 Pennant                 E        E        E  E  E  E   E  E  E
 Portable*               E        E        E  E  E  E   E  E  E
 Temporary*              E        E        E  E  E  E   E  E  E
Sign characteristics:                                   
 Changeable copy*        P        P        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
 Electronic message      P        P        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
  center*
 Illuminated - external* P        P        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
 Illuminated - internal* P        P        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
 Moving                  N        N        P  P  P  P   P  P  N
 Neon                    N        N        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
 Nonilluminated          P        P        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
 Reflective              P        P        P  P  P  P   P  P  P
 
(Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
B.   Table 2; Number, Dimensions And Location Of Signs And Maximum Total Sign
Area By Zoning District: Individual signs shall not exceed the maximum number
or square footage nor encroach into the minimum setback shown on this table.
Freestanding signs in R-4 high density residential district may not exceed
sixteen (16) square feet for single-, two- or three-family residences. All
other properties may not exceed one hundred (100) square feet. (Ord. 2537, 5-2-
2016)
   TABLE 2
Sign Type Zoning Districts
          R-1, R-2 R-3, R-4 CB NS HB TWC I PL UD
              Zoning Districts
              R- R-
Sign Type     1, 3, CB         NS       HB         TWC        I          PL         UD
              R- R-
              2  4
Freestanding:                                                                
  Number      n/ n/
 permitted   a  a            n/a      n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a
  per lot
                    1 for each          1 for each
                    business            business   1 for each 1 for each 1 for each 1 for each
                    with up to          with up to 500' of    500' of    500' of    500' of
  Number            200' of             200' of    frontage;  frontage;  frontage;  frontage;
  permitted         frontage;  1 for    frontage;  501' to    501' to    501' to    501' to
 per feet of n/ n/ 201' to    each     201' to    1,000' of  1,000' of  1,000' of  1,000' of
  street      a  a  400' of    200' of  400' of    frontage   frontage   frontage   frontage
  frontage          frontage   frontage frontage   is allowed is allowed is allowed is allowed
                    is allowed          is allowed 1          1          1          1
                    1                   1          additional additional additional additional
                    additional          additional sign       sign       sign       sign
                    sign                sign
  Setback     n/ n/
 from right  a  a  0'         0'       10'        10'        10'        10'        10'
  of way
                    1 sf for            2 sf for   1.33 sf    1.33 sf    1 sf for   1 sf for
                    each 2 lf           each 1 lf  for each 2 for each 2 each 2 lf  each 2 lf
  Maximum     n/ n/ of                  of         lf of      lf of      of         of
 area        a  a  frontage   75 sf    frontage   frontage   frontage   frontage   frontage
                    or 75 sf            or 300 sf  or 200 sf  or 200 sf  or 200 sf  or 200 sf
                    whichever           whichever  whichever  whichever  whichever  whichever
                    is less             is less    is less    is less    is less    is less
 Maximum     n/ n/ 30'        30'      45'        45'        45'        30'        45'
  height      a  a
 Minimum     n/ n/ 10'        6'       6'         10'        10'        10'        10'
  clearance   a  a
Building:                                                                    
 Area        3  3  n/a        n/a      n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a
              sf sf
 Wall area   n/ n/ 15%        10%      20%        7.5%       7.5%       10%        10%
              a  a
Maximum total                                                                
sign area:
  Maximum
  total
 square feet 16 16 400        200      800        800        600        750        750
  - single
  frontage
  Maximum
  total
  square feet n/ n/
 for lots    a  a  600        300      1,000      1,000      n/a        1,000      800
  with 2 or
  more
  frontages
 
   C.   Table 3; Number And Dimensions Of Certain Signs By Sign Type:
   TABLE 3
          Number  Maximum   Vertical      Horizontal
Sign Type Allowed Sign Area Clearance     Clearance
                            From Sidewalk From Curb
                   Number              Maximum        Vertical      Horizontal
Sign Type          Allowed             Sign Area      Clearance     Clearance
                                                      From Sidewalk From Curb
Building:                                                         
 Awning                                            9 ft.         2 ft.
 Awning, electric                                  9 ft.         2 ft.
 Building marker  1 per building      4 sq. ft.                    
 Canopy                                            9 ft.         2 ft.
 Identification   1 per building                                  
 Marquee                                           9 ft.         2 ft.
 Projecting       1 per building face 48 sq. ft.     10 ft.        2 ft.
 Roof                                              9 ft.          
 Suspended        1 per entrance                    9 ft.          
 Wall                                                            
Miscellaneous:                                                    
 Banner           2                   24 sq. ft. per              2 ft.
                                       banner
 Flag                                              9 ft.         2 ft.
 Inflatable       1                   100 sq. ft.                  
 Portable         1                   60 sq. ft.                   
 Temporary        1                   32 sq. ft.                   
 
(Ord. 2422, 1-21-2013)
CHAPTER 5
FENCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Applicability Of Provisions
9-5-2: Construction Standards
9-5-3: Privacy Fences
9-5-4: Exemptions
9-5-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not supersede any other ordinance or parts of ordinances
which restrict the placement, type or height of any fence within the city.
(1984 Code § 11B-4)
9-5-2: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
Any fence that is erected within the city limits shall not be constructed of
any type of metal guards and barbed wire, unless first being approved by the
city council. No such fence shall be of a material that will limit or conflict
with the value or appearance of abutting property in any way, and no fence
shall be erected or maintained in such a manner as to unreasonably obstruct the
view of others or their access to light or air. (1984 Code § 11B-1)
9-5-3: PRIVACY FENCES:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: As used in this chapter, privacy fences
shall apply to fences placed between commercial and existing residential areas
(not residential and commercial zones as defined by city ordinances 1 ).
Privacy fences shall be placed at the expense of the business at any location
where a new commercial business is being established or where any existing
business is expanding, remodeling or relocating in any way or if such
businesses and/or parking lots associated therewith come within thirty three
feet (33') of abutting existing residential property.
   B.   Location: Privacy fences shall be placed at a location and in an manner
as to screen the expansion or new location of the business from all existing
residential property abutting within thirty three feet (33') of the existing
commercial property.
   C.   Height And Materials: Privacy fences shall be of a six foot (6')
minimum and eight foot (8') maximum height. The material of which said privacy
fences shall be constructed shall be subject to approval by the city council
and shall not be of a type that is not appealing to the eye or of which will
devalue the abutting property. The construction of privacy fences shall be in a
manner and of a material that will confine and restrict the blowing of garbage
and trash and to minimize reflection of vehicle headlights on the abutting
residential property. (1984 Code § 11B-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
9-5-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Alleyways and driveway entrances shall be excluded from the provisions of this
chapter, subject to the approval of the city council. (1984 Code § 11B-3)
CHAPTER 6
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Permit Requirements
9-6-2: Building Inspections
9-6-3: Moving Operations
9-6-4: Exemptions For New Buildings
9-6-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: No licensed house mover 1  or other
person shall move any building over any street or alley without first securing
a permit for such removal as in this section provided and a fee as established
from time to time by resolution of the city council paid. Written application
for such permit shall be presented to the building official, which application
shall show:
      1.   Name of the applicant.
      2.   Name of owner of building.
      3.   Legal description of lot on which building has been located and also
that of the lot to which it is to be moved.
      4.   Route along which it is proposed to move said building.
      5.   Time when such removal is made.
      6.   Dimensions of such building.
Such application shall be accompanied by a certificate of the director of
public works approving the proposed route as set out in such application.
   B.   Issuance Of Permit:
      1.   The building official shall examine such written application, and if
he finds that such building can be so moved along the proposed route without
damage to the city or any property owner and the applicant is a licensed house
mover as shown by the records in his office, he shall file such application
with the finance officer and issue to the applicant a written permit,
designating the route along which such building shall be moved, the methods,
tools and appliances to be used in making such removal and date on which such
removal is to be completed.
      2.   If the building is of modular construction heretofore approved by
the city council, to be used as a new residence, the building official may
cause said permit to be issued without further hearing or notice, to be moved
to any lot approved by the building official. However, the building official
shall have authority to require a hearing as hereinafter set forth.
      3.   If the building is not of new construction, and the building is to
be moved to any location within the city, no permission shall be granted until
after a hearing on such application, which hearing shall be at a regular
meeting of the city council and after five (5) days' notice of such hearing has
been given by the building official by posting of not less than one sign of at
least nine (9) square feet in area with a white background and black letters at
least three inches (3") high, containing notice of hearing, in a conspicuous
place on or near the property to which the application is made to move such
building. (1984 Code § 16-6)
   C.   Deposit Or Bond Required: Before the issuance of a permit, the
applicant for such permit shall first deposit with the finance officer cash or
surety bond as shall be deemed adequate by the city council, pursuant to
resolution, with such deposit or surety conditioned upon the applicant
complying with all of the provisions of this code and other ordinances of the
city concerning the placing of the building in a condition of compliance to or
with all such provisions. (1984 Code § 16-7; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 9 of this code.
9-6-2: BUILDING INSPECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to move any building into or within the
city unless the building shall have been inspected and approved by the building
official for compliance with the building code and with the plumbing code. The
fee for such inspection of each building shall be as established from time to
time by resolution of the city council. (1984 Code § 16-8)
9-6-3: MOVING OPERATIONS:
   A.   Protection Of Pavement: Any person moving any house or building over or
across any street shall, when so provided in the permit, cause such street to
be protected by laying planks thereon. (1984 Code § 16-9)
   B.   Injuring Or Moving Utility Poles, Wires And Trees: Nothing in any
license or permit granted shall be construed as authorizing the holder thereof
to break, injure or move any telegraph, telephone or electric light poles or
electric line wires or in any way injure shade trees or other property without
permission from the owner thereof. (1984 Code § 16-10)
   C.   Obstructing Street Or Railway: No building or part of a building shall
be allowed to stand still in any public street for more than twenty four (24)
consecutive hours, except with written consent of the superintendent of
streets, and no building shall be allowed to obstruct any railway except with
the consent of the railway company. (1984 Code § 16-11)
   D.   Permission To Alter Trees And Plants: No person moving any building
shall cut down or trim any trees or disturb any shrubbery, flowers or grass or
use the parkings or break off any branches of any tree along any street without
the permission of the director of park and recreation. (1984 Code § 16-12)
9-6-4: EXEMPTIONS FOR NEW BUILDINGS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply, except for section
9-6-1 and subsections 9-6-3B, C and D of this chapter to any person making
application for a permit to move any building constructed within the city,
approved by the building official, where such building does not exceed nine
feet (9') in height, fourteen feet (14') in width and twenty feet (20') in
length, and provided, that such building may be carried on a straight flatbed
truck with an overall height not to exceed thirteen feet (13'). (1984 Code §
16-13; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME COMMUNITIES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Short Title
9-7-2: Definitions
9-7-3: Interpretation And Application Of Provisions
9-7-4: License Requirements
9-7-5: Mobile Home Community Requirements
9-7-6: Remodel Or Enlarge Mobile Home Communities
9-7-7: Violations And Penalties
9-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the MITCHELL MOBILE HOME CODE. (1984 Code § 36-1)
9-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings specified in the building
code 1  and the zoning code 2  of the city, except as otherwise defined herein:
MOBILE HOME: The meaning as defined in the South Dakota mobile home safety act,
as it now provides, or as it may be amended 3 .
MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY: Any area occupied by a mobile home with complies with
the safety code filed with the department of commerce and consumer affairs
pursuant to the South Dakota mobile home safety act, as it now provides, or as
it may be amended. (1984 Code § 36-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
2 2. See title 10 of this code.
3 3. SDCL ch. 34-34A.
9-7-3: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to be in conflict
with the housing authorities law or state statutes regulating trailers, trailer
camps, tourist camps or tourist campgrounds. (1984 Code § 36-2)
   B.   The use and occupancy of mobile homes as permitted in this chapter
shall also be subject to the regulations of the applicable codes and ordinances
of the city, except as provided herein; provided, however, that whenever the
regulations in this chapter require a greater area or impose other higher
standards than required by other applicable ordinances or laws, the provisions
of this chapter shall govern. (1984 Code § 36-4)
9-7-4: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to establish,
maintain, operate, occupy or permit to be established, maintained, operated or
occupied any mobile home or mobile home community within one mile from the
corporate limits of the city, except as provided in this chapter and without
first having secured a license therefor.
   B.   License Fee: The annual license fee for each mobile home space shall be
as established from time to time by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Approval And Issuance: Upon payment of the annual fee, the applicant
may be issued a license upon approval by the city council.
   D.   Transfer Ability: Such license may be transferred to another owner or
licensee upon written request to the finance officer.
   E.   License Term And Renewal: The period covered by such license shall not
exceed one year, and every license shall expire on June 30 following the date
on which it became effective. All licenses must be renewed annually, and the
renewed license period shall commence July 1. Each applicant for renewal of a
license must make application prior to June 1 to ensure adequate time for
proper inspection prior to city council approval action. (1984 Code § 36-5;
amd. 2005 Code)
9-7-5: MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY REQUIREMENTS:
All of the following requirements must be met and installed prior to renting
any lot.
   A.   Site Requirements:
      1.   It must have an area of not less than seven and five-tenths (7.5)
acres.
      2.   The area shall be well drained, properly graded to ensure rapid
drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water. Storm sewers shall be
required if deemed necessary by the director of public works.
      3.   A separate lot must be provided for each mobile home. Each lot must
have a minimum of five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      4.   There shall be twenty feet (20') between a mobile home and any
property line bounding a mobile home community. Mobile homes shall be situated
on lots such that there are minimum front, side and back yards of ten feet
(10'). Distances shall be measured between the lot line and the point on the
mobile home or appurtenance nearest the lot line. All additions and lean-tos
attached a mobile home shall have a building permit issued by the building
official for same.
      5.   No accessory building shall be within three feet (3') of any
interior lot line or twenty feet (20') of an exterior lot line. No accessory
building shall be constructed without obtaining required permits from the
building official. An accessory building shall be considered as a building
which is not attached to the mobile home which cannot be used as living
quarters.
   B.   Driveways And Sidewalks:
      1.   All lots shall have access to a driveway. There shall be at least
two (2) off driveway parking spaces for each mobile home space on each lot.
      2.   All driveways and sidewalks shall be illuminated at night to provide
a minimum illumination at ground level of five (5) foot- candles.
      3.   Driveways shall be of minimum widths as follows:
   One-way, parking on one side only   18 feet
   Two-way, no parking   24 feet
   Two-way, parking on one side only   30 feet
   Two-way, parking on both sides   36 feet
      4.   Each mobile home community shall have direct access to a city street
or state highway.
      5.   Driveways shall be coated to provide a dust free surface as approved
by the director of public works.
      6.   All drives shall be maintained and clear so as to provide clear fire
access routes.
   C.   Lots Graded: Each lot shall be graded so that surface water drains away
from the point where the utilities surface.
   D.   Anchors: Each mobile home shall be tied down or anchored with tie down
anchors or hurricane straps and/or cables, and it shall be the responsibility
of the park owner to see that all such mobile homes are properly tied down or
anchored.
   E.   Skirting: All mobile homes shall be skirted with metal, fiberglass,
wood or masonry materials on all sides between the mobile home floor and the
ground level within ninety (90) days of occupancy.
   F.   Utilities:
      1.   Water Supply: The water supply shall be connected to the municipal
water system 1 , and all plumbing shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with the city plumbing code 2  and ordinances. A private water
supply may be used in lieu of the municipal system only when the mobile home
community lies outside the city limits and:
         a.   A private water supply system is developed and used as approved
by the city and the state.
         b.   The mobile home community is located more than one thousand feet
(1,000') from the nearest water main.
         c.   Supply from the private source meets or exceeds two hundred (200)
gallons of water per space per day.
      2.   Sewer System: The sewer system of a mobile home community shall be
connected to the municipal sewer system 3 , and all plumbing shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with the city's plumbing code. A
private sewer system may be used in lieu of the municipal system only when the
mobile home community lies outside of the city limits and:
         a.   A private sewer system is developed and used as approved by the
city and the state.
         b.   The mobile home community is located more than one thousand feet
(1,000') from the nearest sewer main.
         c.   The system is capable of disposing and treating at least two
hundred (200) gallons of wastewater per space per day.
      3.   Garbage Disposal: Disposal of all domestic garbage shall be in a
manner approved by the proper city official. Minimum standards shall be:
         a.   Garbage must be stored in accordance with applicable city
ordinances 4  and collected at least twice weekly.
         b.   Central collection containers must be kept in a specific area
screened from view as approved by city officials
      4.   Heating: All heating of both service buildings and mobile homes
shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with city codes and
ordinances.
      5.   Other Utilities: All power, telephone, cable television and other
utility service lines within a mobile home community shall be located under the
surface of the ground. All electrical wiring outlets, services, etc., and shall
be constructed and maintained in accordance with city ordinances.
   G.   Fires: No open fires will be permitted within the mobile home
community. (1984 Code § 36-7)
   H.   Mail Service: Individual mailboxes for each mobile home space shall be
provided. The location and size of these mailboxes shall be in conformance with
all requirements of the U.S. postal service and approved by the director of
public works.
   I.   Lots Identified: All lots shall be provided with some type of
identification approved by the director of public works and/or building
official. (1984 Code § 36-7; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 8 of this code.
2 2. See subsection 9-3-6D of this title.
3 3. See title 8, chapter 9 of this code.
4 4. See title 5, chapter 4, article A of this code.
9-7-6: REMODEL OR ENLARGE MOBILE HOME COMMUNITIES:
An application to remodel or enlarge mobile home communities shall be filed
with the finance officer, in writing, and shall include the following:
   A.   Name and address of applicant.
   B.   Location and legal description of the area
   C.   A complete plan showing the location of all lots, driveways and all
other improvements required by this chapter which must be reviewed by the city
planning commission and approved by the city council.
   D.   Such additional information as may be required by the director of
public works or building official in order to determine that the proposed
mobile home community will comply with all the requirements of this chapter.
(1984 Code § 36-6)
9-7-7: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: If the building official shall find that any of
the provisions of this chapter are being violated, he shall notify, in writing,
by registered or certified mail, any person responsible for any violation
indicating the nature of the violation and specifying the action necessary to
bring about compliance. He shall order immediate discontinuance of any
nonconforming use or shall take any other action authorized by this chapter to
ensure compliance.
   B.   Stay Of Execution: The building official may grant a stay of execution
of his order, not to exceed ninety (90) days, upon such terms as he deems
necessary and may revoke any stay if such terms are not met.
   C.   Liability: Every owner remains liable for violations of duties imposed
upon him by this chapter even though an obligation is also imposed on the
occupants of his premises and even though the owner has, by agreement, imposed
on the occupant the duty of furnishing required equipment or of complying with
this chapter.
   D.   Violation Of Provisions: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day or portion thereof during which any such violation is committed, continued
or permitted. (1984 Code § 36-3)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL LANDSCAPING STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose And Application
9-8-2: Definitions
9-8-3: Landscape Plan Required
9-8-4: Regulations And Standards
9-8-5: Exceptions
9-8-6: Enforcement
9-8-7: Violations And Penalty
9-8-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICATION:
   A.   It is the desire of the city to encourage development that enhances the
environmental and aesthetic conditions that contribute to the quality of life
in the city. To achieve this, a minimum standard for a landscaped setback and
landscape features are prescribed to lessen the adverse effects common to
commercial property.
   B.   This chapter shall apply to all commercially zoned property improved
with new construction and major renovation and all new commercial construction
and major renovation and development in any other zone (except residential) on
or abutting state highways 37 and 38.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply retroactively, and this
chapter shall not apply to any building permit issued prior to the effective
date hereof. (Ord. 1873, 4-21-1997)
9-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
MAJOR RENOVATION: Reconstruction and renovation of an existing structure to the
extent of seventy five percent (75%) or more of the replacement cost of said
structure.
TREE: A tree which is required by this chapter and meets or exceeds the
following minimum specifications according to tree type:
Deciduous Ornamental Tree: A minimum of one inch (1") caliper measured at a
point six inches (6") above immediate ground level and normally growing to a
height less than thirty feet (30') at maturity.
Deciduous Shade Tree: A minimum of one and one-quarter inch (11/4") caliper
measured at a point six inches (6") above immediate ground level and normally
capable of reaching a mature height of thirty feet (30').
Evergreen Or Coniferous Tree: A minimum height of four feet (4') measured above
immediate ground level. (Ord. 1873, 4-21-1997)
9-8-3: LANDSCAPE PLAN REQUIRED:
In every case where landscaping is required, the applicant for a building
permit shall submit a landscape plan prepared in accordance with the provisions
of this section. The landscape plan shall include the following:
   A.   Name: Name and address of developer/owner.
   B.   Site Map: One scape drawing of site based upon survey of property lines
showing streets, easements, existing and proposed parking.
   C.   Landscape Proposal: Two (2) scale drawings of proposed landscaping
showing details of planting beds, foundation plantings, sodded and seeded
areas, screening, location and identification of trees, and location of
landscape islands with identification of plant material used.
   D.   Planting Schedule: A table containing common and botanical names, size,
root specifications, and proposed planting dates. (Ord. 1873, 4-21-1997)
9-8-4: REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Artificial Plantings: Artificial plantings are not acceptable under
this chapter, and no landscaping requirement of this chapter may be satisfied
through the use of artificial plantings.
   B.   Required Landscaping Of Front Yard Setbacks: A minimum width of ten
feet (10') of the required front yard setback shall be maintained in living
ground cover excluding necessary hard surfacing of driveways to reach allowed
or required off street parking areas.
   C.   Trees: In consideration of the benefits provided from the use of trees
in reducing heat and pollution, the following standards regarding trees shall
be met and maintained:
      1.   Total Number Of Trees Required: One tree per fifty feet (50') of
frontage or one tree per six (6) parking, loading and stacking spaces provided
on site, whichever is greater.
      2.   Placement According To Type And Percentage Allowed:
         a.   Deciduous Shade Trees: May be utilized for one hundred percent
(100%) of total tree requirements and is the only tree to be utilized for
interior trees or optional right of way planting. No more than fifty percent
(50%) of the total tree requirements may be planted in the right of way
boulevard area.
         b.   Deciduous Ornamental And Evergreen Trees: Up to twenty five
percent (25%) of the required trees may be deciduous ornamental, evergreen or
coniferous trees; however, such trees shall not be planted in a driveway or
intersection nor utilized for parking lot interior trees or right of way
plantings.
      3.   Interior Tree Requirements For Parking Areas Exceeding Fifty Spaces:
One tree per twenty five (25) interior parking spaces, equally spaced, in
planting islands within hard surfaced parking areas. Islands within hard
surfaced parking areas shall be minimum of five feet (5') wide and contain a
minimum of thirty five (35) square feet per tree with raised curbs or wheels
tops.
      4.   Existing Trees: The preservation of existing trees on any site
subject to this chapter which meet the minimum size requirements and are
properly located to satisfy the standards of this chapter is encouraged.
   D.   Parking Lot Buffer Areas: A setback area of at least five feet (5')
shall be provided between the parking surface and property line where a parking
lot abuts adjoining residential property; provided, however, that where a
screen, fence or wall is provided, the minimum required setback shall be
reduced to two feet (2').
   E.   Parking Lot Screening: Where a parking lot of property subject to this
chapter is adjacent to residential property, including where the residential
property is across an alley right of way from the parking lot, a fence, wall,
berm or shrubbery four feet (4') in height and of a character which will
provide for adequate screening of a parking lot from adjacent residential
property shall be provided.
Berms or other landscaping techniques may be used for all or part of the
screening requirements and may be incorporated into a required setback area.
Berms shall have a maximum grade of three feet (3') horizontal to one foot (1')
vertical and shall be sodded or planted with other acceptable living ground
cover.
   F.   Screening Dumpsters: All outside dumpsters or other garbage receptacles
on the site shall be screened by an opaque fence or wall.
   G.   Installation Requirements: Trees shall be located no closer than three
feet (3') to any curb and all landscape materials required by this section
shall be installed in accordance with accepted industry standards. Minimum
planting sizes of hedges and ground cover evergreens to meet the requirements
of this chapter are as follows:
      1.   Hedges: If hedges are utilized for the required screening of the
parking lot, plantings shall be a minimum of eighteen inches (18") above ground
height and of a species that is normally capable of reaching a height of four
feet (4') within three (3) years. Spacing shall be eighteen inches (18") to
thirty six inches (36") apart, depending upon species, as the hedge must also
be capable of providing a substantially full expanse of foliage within this
three (3) year period.
      2.   Ground Cover Evergreens: If ground cover evergreens are utilized in
areas required to be maintained in living ground cover, plantings shall cover a
minimum area of twelve inches (12") in diameter and spaced no more than four
feet (4') on center.
   H.   Maintenance: The use of in ground sprinkler systems is encouraged, and
at a minimum, water services shall be conveniently located to provide a
permanent and easily accessible means of watering. Property owners shall be
ultimately responsible for the proper maintenance of all required landscape
materials and any dead or substantially damaged landscape materials shall be
replaced.
   I.   Right Of Way Landscaping: The unpaved portion of a dedicated public
right of way abutting any development shall be landscaped with grass, or other
living ground cover approved by the director of park and recreation. Nonliving
ground cover, including, but not limited to, rock, stone, brick, concrete,
blacktop or other like materials shall not be used as landscape material except
as provided herein.
The director of park and recreation may authorize the use of nonliving ground
cover for landscaping a public right of way when it is determined that the
location will not allow for adequate maintenance of sod or other living ground
cover. This exception shall not include the use of loose rock or blacktop as
landscaping material. (Ord. 1873, 4-21-1997)
9-8-5: EXCEPTIONS:
Exceptions to the terms of this chapter may be granted by the planning and
zoning commission after public notice and hearing thereon. Notice of such
hearing shall be in the same form and manner as is required in respect to
zoning variances. A decision of the planning and zoning commission may be
appealed to the city council within ten (10) days after issuance of the
decision.
If such exception is granted, the property owner/representative must comply
with alternatives established by the planning and zoning commission or city
council, as the case may be. (Ord. 1873, 4-21-1997)
9-8-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the director of
parks and recreation and under the authority of the park and recreation
department. (Ord. 1873, 4-21-1997)
9-8-7: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
The maximum penalty for violation of this chapter shall be the maximum penalty
that may be charged for violations of municipal ordinances by the laws of the
state 1 . (Ord. 1873, 4-21-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code.
CHAPTER 9
SMALL CELL FACILITY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Purpose
9-9-2: Definitions
9-9-3: Applicability
9-9-4: Siting And Collocation Criteria
9-9-5: Small Cell Facility Permits
9-9-6: Permit Conditions
9-9-7: Relocation
9-9-8: Removal Of Abandoned Small Cell Facilities, Utility Poles, And Other SCF
Support Structures
9-9-9: General Indemnification
9-9-10: Appeal Process
9-9-11: Application Fees And Rates
9-9-12: Severability
9-9-13: Conflict
9-9-1: PURPOSE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the SMALL CELL FACILITIES
REGULATIONS. It is the purpose of these provisions to develop standards and
siting criteria, and to establish removal procedures. It is further the purpose
of these provisions:
   A.   To establish regulations and siting standards for small cell wireless
communication facilities (SCFs), whether in the public right-of-way or on other
public or private property, in a manner that will protect the public's health,
safety, and welfare and maintain the aesthetic integrity of the community;
   B.   To facilitate the provision of wireless communication services;
   C.   To provide regulations which are specifically not intended to, and
shall not be interpreted or applied to: 1) prohibit or effectively prohibit the
provision of wireless services; 2) unreasonably discriminate among functionally
equivalent service providers; or 3) regulate wireless communication facilities
and wireless transmission equipment on the basis of the environmental effects
of radio frequency emissions to the extent that such emissions comply with the
standards established by the Federal Communications Commission. (Ord. O2018-18,
12-26-2018)
9-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below:
ANTENNA: Any communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless
services. This definition does not include broadcast radio or television
antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use, or satellite dishes for
residential or household purposes.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application as or on behalf of a wireless
provider.
CITY: The City of Mitchell, South Dakota.
COLLOCATION: The mounting or installation of an antenna or a small cell
facility on a pre-existing utility pole or SCF support structure and/or
modifying a utility pole or SCF support structure for the purpose of mounting
or installing an antenna or SCF on that utility pole or SCF support structure
in order to transmit and/or receive radio frequency signals for communications
purposes.
DEPARTMENT: The Department of Public Works of the City.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the department.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission.
HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the base of the structure at grade
to the highest point of the structure, including the antenna.
NETWORK INTERFACE DEVICE: The telecommunications demarcation and test point
separating the wireless facility and the wireline backhaul facility.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization, including the City.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHT-OF-WAY OR ROW: The surface and space above and
below any street, sidewalk, avenue, boulevard, alley, lane, easement, right-of-
way, highway or thoroughfare open for public use in which the City has an
interest in law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or
as a trustee for the public.
SMALL CELL FACILITY OR SCF: A wireless facility that either meets both of the
following qualifications or is within a stealth design that is consistent with
the design guidelines:
   A.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than three (3)
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of no
more than three (3) cubic feet; and
   B.   Each provider's equipment enclosures shall be no larger than twenty
eight (28) cubic feet in volume. The following associated equipment may be
located outside of the primary equipment enclosure and, if so located, is not
included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meters, concealment
measures, network interface device, underground enclosures, backup power
systems, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switches, cable,
conduit, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services, and any equipment concealed from public view within or behind an
existing structure or concealment.
   C.   The facility is mounted: 1) on a utility pole or SCF support structure
fifty feet (50') or less in height including antennas; 2) on a utility pole or
SCF support structure no more than ten percent (10%) taller than other adjacent
structures of substantially similar design; or 3) on an existing utility pole
or SCF support structure where the facility does not extend the height of the
utility pole or SCF support structure on which it is to be located to a height
of more than the greater of either fifty feet (50') or the height of such
utility pole or SCF support structure plus ten percent (10%).
SMALL CELL FACILITY PERMIT: A permit authorizing the installation,
construction, and maintenance of a small cell facility.
SMALL CELL FACILITY SUPPORT STRUCTURE OR SCF SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A structure,
such as a monopole; tower, either guyed or self- supporting; billboard;
building; or other existing or proposed structure designed to support or
capable of supporting SCFs. Such term does not include a utility pole.
STEALTH DESIGN: Any SCF that is integrated as an architectural feature of a
utility pole or changes a support structure design so that the purpose of the
utility pole or SCF support structure for providing wireless services is not as
readily apparent. This includes the ability of SCFs to blend into the
neighborhood environment at a given location and camouflage or conceal the SCF
subject to applicable law.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is or may be used in whole or in
part to facilitate telecommunications, electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, signage, or to carry lines, cables, or other similar function, or for
location or collocation of small cell facilities. Such term does not include a
SCF support structure.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless services
between user equipment and a communications network, including: a) equipment
associated with wireless communications; b) radio transceivers; c) antennas; d)
coaxial or fiber optic cable located on a utility pole or SCF support structure
or immediately adjacent to the utility pole or SCF support structure or
directly associated with equipment located on the utility pole or SCF support
structure; e) regular and backup power supplies and rectifiers; and f)
comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration. The term
includes SCFs but does not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under,
or within which the equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul
facilities.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person that builds or installs wireless
facilities or utility poles or SCF support structures, but not a wireless
provider.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services, using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided to
the public.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY: An above-ground or underground wireline facility
used to transport communications data from a wireless facility network
interface device to a network. (Ord. O2018-18, 12-26-2018)
9-9-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Permit Processing: For all SCF installation types, including new and
replacement utility poles and SCF collocations to existing SCF support
structures or existing utility poles, the department shall issue permits in
accordance with the terms and procedures set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Zoning Exemption: All SCF installations shall be exempt from general
zoning restrictions unless a provision of such Zoning Code is explicitly cited
by a section of this chapter.
   C.   Exempt Activities: This chapter shall not apply to: 1) routine
maintenance; or 2) the replacement of an SCF, utility pole, or SCF support
structure which was previously approved pursuant to this chapter with another
SCF, utility pole, or SCF support structure that is the same or substantially
similar. (Ord. O2018-18, 12-26-2018)
9-9-4: SITING AND COLLOCATION CRITERIA:
   A.   SCFs shall:
      1.   Be located on existing structures, such as utility poles or SCF
support structures; or
      2.   Be located on public property and structures if the controlling
public entity agrees to the placement.
   B.   Applications to collocate SCFs at locations other than those listed in
subsection A of this section may not be approved administratively. However, if
an applicant certifies that it is not technically feasible, economically
feasible, or places an undue burden to collocate an SCF at a location
designated in subsection A of this section, the applicant may request a special
review of the application as provided under subsection
9-9-5C2 of this chapter. Such certification shall include a written statement
indicating the reasons why said location is not feasible. (Ord. O2018-18, 12-
26-2018)
9-9-5: SMALL CELL FACILITY PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: An SCF permit shall be required to install any SCF,
utility pole, or SCF support structure. Applications for an SCF permit shall be
considered and approved pursuant to the provisions of this section. An SCF
permit shall be deemed to include all other Municipal permits which may be
necessary to place and construct an SCF, utility pole, or SCF support structure
as represented in an approved application. The granting of an SCF permit
pursuant to this chapter is not a grant of any franchise. All applications
shall first be reviewed administratively and then, if not eligible for
administrative approval, may be considered via the special review process.
   B.   General Review Provision:
      1.   Review Period: The department must approve or deny all SCF permit
applications pursuant to this chapter: a) within ninety (90) days after the
date an application is filed for an SCF Permit Application to place a new
utility pole or SCF support structure, or b) within sixty (60) days after the
date an application is filed for collocation of an SCF. If approved, the permit
shall be issued on or before day ninety (90) or sixty (60).
      2.   Tolling Of Review Period: An applicant and the department can
mutually agree in writing to toll the applicable review period at any time.
      3.   Final Decision: By the end of the applicable review period, the City
must advise the applicant in writing of its final decision. If the final
decision is to deny the application, the final decision shall state the basis
for denial, including specific code provisions on which the denial is based.
      4.   Nondiscrimination: The department shall process all applications
under this chapter in a nondiscriminatory manner. Aesthetic requirements shall
be: a) reasonable, b) no more burdensome than for other types of infrastructure
deployments, and c) objective and published in advance.
   C.   Small Cell Facility Permit Process:
      1.   Administrative Review Process: An application submitted pursuant to
this subsection shall be reviewed as follows:
         a.   Submission Of Application: Applicant shall submit a complete SCF
Application accompanied by any corresponding application fee to the department.
         b.   Review For Completeness: The department shall review the
application for completeness following submittal. The department must provide a
written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within ten (10) days of
receipt of the SCF Permit Application, clearly and specifically delineating all
missing information. Information specified in a notice of incompleteness shall
be limited to that which is relevant to the approval or denial of an
application under this chapter. Applicant shall then submit all information
specified in the notice of incompleteness. The applicable review period shall
restart at zero on the date the applicant provides the missing information to
complete the application. For subsequent determinations of incompleteness, the
applicable review period shall be tolled if the department provides written
notice within ten (10) days that the supplemental submission did not provide
the information identified in the original notice delineating missing
information.
         c.   Application Approval: An application may not be approved via the
administrative review process unless the proposed SCF, utility pole, or SCF
support structure meets all applicable location and design requirements of this
chapter. An application shall be approved via the administrative review process
if the proposed SCF, utility pole, or SCF support structure meets all
applicable location and design requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Special Review Process:
         a.   An applicant may request a special review of an application which
is not eligible for administrative approval due to not meeting the applicable
location or design requirements of this chapter and where compliance with said
requirements is not technically feasible, economically feasible, or poses an
undue burden.
         b.   Special reviews shall be conducted by the Planning and Zoning
Commission in a public meeting. Notice of such meeting shall comply with South
Dakota Codified Laws 1-25-1.1. The review hearing and final decision shall take
place within the applicable sixty (60) or ninety (90) day review period which
shall begin on the date a complete application is submitted to the department.
         c.   The Planning and Zoning Commission must approve, by majority vote
of all members, an SCF application upon finding that the proposed installation
has no reasonable alternative which better fits the location and design
requirements of this chapter. The commission shall deny an application which
does have a reasonable alternative which better fits the location and design
requirements of this chapter. For an alternative to be reasonable, the
alternative must be technically feasible, economically feasible, and must not
impose an undue burden.
         d.   After the Planning and Zoning Commission has made a determination
on an SCF application, the department shall issue an SCF permit if the
application was approved. If denied, the department shall provide a notice of
final decision including the grounds upon which the Planning and Zoning
Commission denied the application.
   D.   Small Cell Facility Permit Applications:
      1.   Application Form: The Director shall designate or develop an
Application Form for an SCF permit. An application may include requests for new
or replacement utility poles or SCF support structures. The Director shall
allow for applications to be consolidated pursuant to this section. Each
applicant must submit a complete application for each permit desired.
      2.   Consolidated Applications: Each SCF permit request in a consolidated
application shall be considered individually.
      3.   Application Requirements: All applications for the placement of an
SCF, including modification or construction of a utility pole or SCF support
structure, submitted under this chapter shall include the following:
         a.   Photo Simulations: A photo simulation of a reasonably
representative installation type that includes to-scale visual simulations that
show unobstructed before-and-after construction daytime views from at least two
(2) angles, together with a map that shows the location of the proposed
installation, including all equipment. A separate set of such materials shall
be required for any design which is materially different.
         b.   Noise Study: A noise study for the SCF if: 1) requested by the
City, 2) the proposed site is within twenty feet (20') of a residential
structure, and 3) the application proposes to utilize equipment which may
produce a persistent or chronic audible tone at such distance.
         c.   Radio Frequency (RF) Emissions Compliance: Whereas the FCC has
exclusive jurisdiction to establish radio frequency emission safety standards,
the City may only require a written report or statement, signed and sealed by a
South Dakota licensed engineer or signed by a competent employee of the
applicant, which explains compliance with the RF emissions limits established
by the FCC.
         d.   Utility Pole Or SCF Support Structure Inspection: For
collocations or modifications to existing utility pole or SCF support
structure, applicant shall inspect the structure to which a proposed SCF would
be attached and determine, based on a structural engineering analysis by a
South Dakota registered professional engineer, the suitability of the pole or
structure for the applicant's purposes. The structural engineering analysis
shall be submitted to the department and shall certify that the utility pole or
SCF support structure can reasonably support the proposed SCF.
         e.   New And Replacement Utility Poles And SCF Support Structures: For
new and replaced utility poles and SCF support structures, applicant shall
submit foundation drawings demonstrating the foundation and new or replacement
utility pole or SCF support structure can reasonably support the SCF.
         f.   Design Justification: A clear and complete written analysis that
explains how the proposed design complies with the applicable design standards
under this section. A complete design justification must identify all
applicable design standards under this chapter and provide a factually detailed
reason why the proposed design either complies or cannot feasibly comply.
         g.   Site Plan: A site plan clearly indicating the location, type,
height and width of the proposed pole, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent
land uses and zoning, distances to nearby objects, structures, and property
lines, adjacent roadways, proposed means of access, utility runs, and other
information which may uniquely impact the SCF's fitness for a particular site.
         h.   Aesthetic Compliance Summary: An explanatory statement of
aesthetic considerations and requirements factored into applicant's design such
as stealthing, finishing, fencing, landscaping, or other elements which may
impact the visual appeal of the SCF.
         i.   Statement Of Purpose: A clear and complete written statement of
purpose which shall minimally include: 1) a description of the technical
objective to be achieved; 2) a to-scale map that identifies the proposed site
location and the targeted service area to be benefited by the proposed project;
and 3) full-color signal propagation maps.
   E.   General Standards:
      1.   Utility Pole Design: An existing utility pole may be replaced or
extended to accommodate small cell facilities subject to the following
requirements:
         a.   Replacement And New Utility Poles: Replacement utility poles
shall be substantially similar to the width, color, and material of the
original or adjacent utility poles. The City may approve minor deviations up to
the minimum additional height needed to allow for the required clearance from
electrical wires to accommodate an antenna or antennas and may also approve
minor deviations up to fifty percent (50%) of the pole width at its base, not
to exceed thirty inches (30"), when housing equipment is placed within the pole
base. Replacement utility poles shall be located as close as possible to the
existing utility pole, and the replaced utility pole shall be removed.
Replacement street lights and poles shall conform to the adopted streetscape
design standard for the zoning district. New utility poles shall mimic the
design of a replacement utility pole that is most suitable for the proposed
location.
         b.   Replacement And Existing Utility Pole Height: The height of any
antennas at the top of an existing utility pole or any pole extender, shall be
no higher than the greater of either fifty feet (50') or the height of such
utility pole or SCF support structure plus ten percent (10%).
         c.   Equipment Concealed: Whenever technically feasible, antennas,
cabling, and equipment shall be fully concealed within a pole, or otherwise
camouflaged to appear to be an integrated part of a pole.
         d.   Flush-Mounting And Pole-Top Antennas: When technically feasible,
antennas will be flush-mounted on a pole, which means either: 1) mounted
directly to the pole with no gap other than that which may be required for
screws, bolts, or similar hardware; 2) located at the top of the pole; or 3)
side mounted by mounted arm as needed for required clearance. Canisters
attached to the top of a pole shall not exceed the diameter of the pole, unless
technically required, and then shall not be more than fifty percent (50%)
greater than the diameter of the pole at the point of attachment or up to
sixteen inches (16") in diameter, whichever is greater.
         e.   Antenna Design: Each antenna shall be located in an enclosure of
no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume, or in case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an enclosure of no more than three (3) cubic feet.
         f.   No Illumination: Small cell facilities shall not be illuminated
except for small status LEDs installed by the manufacturer. Such LEDs may not
be of a nature which is likely to distract a vehicle or pedestrian due to
brightness, size, blinking, other similar condition, or any combination
thereof.
         g.   Generators And Battery Backup: Generators are not permitted for
small cell facilities. A battery backup may be permitted if it is concealed
consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
         h.   Cabinet Location And Dimensions: Any equipment cabinet for a
small cell facility shall utilize the smallest cabinet enclosure that is
technically feasible to enclose the equipment. Disconnect switches may be
located outside of the primary equipment cabinet.
         i.   Painting, Coating, Or Finish Material: The exterior of an SCF
shall be painted, coated, or be of a material which draws minimal attention
from an observer. For example, an SCF painted in blaze orange or safety green
is highly likely to draw attention and be distracting. An SCF finished with
polished aluminum is more likely to be distracting than an SCF finished with
matte grey paint.
      2.   Ground-Mounted Equipment: To allow full use of the public right-of-
ways by pedestrians, bicyclists, and other users, all ground-mounted equipment,
excluding antennas, shall, to the extent feasible, be either: a) undergrounded,
b) incorporated into street furniture, or c) concealed in the base of a pole,
and in all cases shall comply with the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA),
City construction standards, and any applicable State or Federal regulations in
order to provide clear and safe passage within the public right-of-ways. The
location of any ground-mounted equipment shall also comply with the Americans
With Disabilities Act (ADA), City construction standards, and any applicable
State or Federal regulations in order to provide clear and safe passage within
the public right-of-ways.
      3.   Building-Mounted Small Cell Facilities: Antennas may be mounted to a
building if the antennas do not interrupt the building's architectural theme.
         a.   Balanced Design: Small cell facilities attached to the side or
roof of buildings shall employ a symmetrical, balanced design for all facade-
mounted antennas. Subsequent deployments on a structure's exterior will be
required to ensure consistent design, architectural treatment and symmetry with
any existing small cell facilities on the same side of the structure.
         b.   Architectural Preservation: The interruption of architectural
lines or horizontal or vertical reveals is prohibited unless demonstrated to be
unavoidable.
         c.   Complementary Architecture: New architectural features, such as
columns, pilasters, corbels, or other ornamentation that conceal an antenna or
antennas, may be used only if the new feature complements the architecture of
the existing building.
         d.   Mounting Brackets: Small cell facilities shall utilize the
smallest mounting brackets necessary in order to provide the smallest offset
from the building.
         e.   Concealment: Skirts or shrouds shall be utilized on the sides and
bottoms of antennas in order to conceal mounting hardware, create a cleaner
appearance, and minimize the visual impact of the antennas. Exposed conduit,
cabling and wiring is prohibited.
         f.   Matching Paint: Small cell facilities, and all visible mounting
hardware, shall be painted and textured to match adjacent building surfaces.
         g.   Permission: All installations of a small cell facility shall have
permission from the utility pole or SCF support structure owner to install the
small cell facility on such utility pole or SCF support structure. Nothing in
this section affects the need for an applicant seeking to place a small cell
facility on a utility pole or SCF support structure that is not owned by the
City to obtain from the owner of the utility pole or SCF support structure any
necessary authority to place the small cell facility, nor shall any provision
of this section be deemed to affect the rates, terms, and conditions for access
to or placement of a small cell facility on a utility pole or SCF support
structure not owned by the City. This section does not affect any existing
agreement between the department and an entity concerning the placement of
small cell facilities on any City-owned utility pole or SCF support structure.
      4.   Preferred Projecting Or Marquee Sign: Small cell facilities
replicating a projecting or marquee sign must comply with the City's sign
regulations. All antennas shall be completely screened by the facade of the
sign. All cables and conduit to and from the sign shall be routed from within a
building wall. Cable coverings may be allowed on the exterior of the building
wall in limited circumstances and in situations where the coverings are
minimally visible and concealed to match the adjacent building surfaces.
      5.   Parking Lot Lighting: Small cell facilities are permitted as
attachments to or replacements of existing parking lot light fixtures. The
design of the parking lot light fixture shall be in accordance with applicable
Municipal Code and construction standards, except that a pole extender up to
five feet (5') in height may be utilized.
      6.   Purely Aesthetic Standards: To the extent that a requirement is
purely aesthetic, an SCF applicant shall not be required to meet a more
burdensome standard than other users of the right-of-way. Other users of the
right-of-way shall meet the purely aesthetic standards of this chapter for new
or replacement deployments to the extent which is technically and economically
feasible. (Ord. O2018-18, 12-26-2018)
9-9-6: PERMIT CONDITIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Law And Ordinances: A permittee shall comply with all
applicable law, including, but not limited to, applicable historic preservation
ordinances of the City and utility undergrounding requirements.
   B.   Public Right-Of-Ways Ownership: Issuance of any permit pursuant to this
chapter shall not confer any ownership rights in the public right-of-way.
   C.   Public Right-Of-Way Interference Prohibited: No permittee may
construct, operate, place, locate, or maintain any small cell facility so as to
interfere with the use of the public right-of-way by the City, the general
public, or any other persons authorized to use or be present in or upon the
public right-of-way.
   D.   Damaged Property: No permittee or affiliate thereof shall take any
action or cause any action to be done which may impair or damage any ROW, or
other property located in, on or adjacent thereto. Any and all public right-of-
way, public property, or private property that is disturbed or damaged by the
permittee or affiliate thereof during the construction, operation, maintenance,
or repair of a small cell facility shall be promptly repaired by permittee. In
the event permittee fails to make such repairs within a reasonable time period,
the City may complete or cause to be completed the repair work and bill the
actual and reasonable costs to the permittee. Public property, private
property, and public right-of-way must be restored to as good a condition as
before the disturbance or damage occurred to the reasonable satisfaction of the
City.
   E.   Unexpected Repair Or Emergency: In the event of an unexpected repair or
emergency, the owner of a small cell facility may commence such repair and
emergency response work as required under the circumstances, provided it shall
notify the City promptly before such repair or emergency work, or the next day
thereafter if advance notice is not practicable.
   F.   Maintaining Facilities: Each permittee shall maintain its facilities in
good and safe condition and in a manner that complies with all applicable
Federal, State, and local requirements. Permittee shall be responsible for all
electrical or other utility costs associated with operating each installed SCF.
   G.   Inspections And Information Requests: Every small cell facility shall
be subject to the right of periodic inspection by the City, after notification
to the small cell facility owner. Each operator must respond to requests for
information regarding its system and plans for the system as the City may from
time to time issue, including requests for information regarding its plans for
construction, operation and repair of the public right-of-way.
   H.   Relocating Facilities In Right-Of-Way: The City retains the right and
privilege, after notifying the small cell facility owner, to move any small
cell facility located within the public right-of-way as the City may determine
to be necessary, in response to any public health or safety emergency.
   I.   City Not Liable For Damage; Exception: To the extent permitted by South
Dakota law, the City shall not be liable for any damage to any small cell
facility within the public right-of-way as a result of or in connection with
any public works, public improvements, construction, excavation, grading,
filling, or work of any kind in the public right-of-way by or on behalf of the
City, except to the extent such damage is due to or caused by the City's
negligence or willful misconduct.
   J.   Restoration: Restoration shall comply with the following:
      1.   When a permittee, or any person acting on its behalf, does any work
in or affecting any public right-of-way, it shall, at its own expense, promptly
remove any obstructions therefrom and restore such right-of-way or property to
the same, or better than the, condition which existed before the work was
undertaken. As used in this section, "promptly" shall mean as soon as required
by the City in the reasonable exercise of the City's discretion.
      2.   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete
restoration required hereunder, the permittee shall temporarily restore the
affected right-of-way or property. Such temporary restoration shall be at the
permittee's sole expense, and the permittee shall promptly undertake and
complete the required permanent restoration when the weather or other
conditions no longer prevent such permanent restoration.
      3.   A permittee or other person acting on its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flagmen, lights, flares and other measures as required for
the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent injury or damage
to any person, vehicle or property by reason of such work in or affecting the
right-of-way.
      4.   Restoration and repair work shall be the responsibility of the
permittee for two (2) years after completion thereof. Such work shall be
limited to further restoration or repairs arising out of deficient completion
of the initial work but shall not include further restoration or repairs
arising out of events not related to the initial completion of the work.
   K.   Maintenance: The site and small cell facilities and SCF support
structures, including all landscaping, fencing and related transmission
equipment must be maintained at all times in a neat and clean manner and in
accordance with all approved plans. This includes, but is not limited to,
mowing, weeding and trimming.
   L.   Graffiti Removal: All graffiti on small cell facilities must be removed
at the sole expense of the permit holder after notification by the City to the
owner or operator of the small cell facilities.
   M.   Certificate Of Completion:
      1.   A certificate of completion will only be granted upon satisfactory
evidence that the SCF was installed in substantial compliance with the approved
plans and photo simulations.
      2.   If it is found that the SCF installation does not substantially
comply with the approved plans and photo simulations, the applicant shall make
any and all such changes required to bring the SCF installation into compliance
within the timeframe established by the Municipality. Failing to obtain a
Certificate of Completion within the applicable timeframe shall cause a permit
to be revoked.
   N.   Compliance: All small cell facilities must comply with all standards
and regulations of the FCC and any State or other Federal government agency
with the authority to regulate small cell facilities.
   O.   Applicant Insurance: Each applicant shall secure and maintain liability
insurance policies, as accepted by the City, insuring the applicant and
including the City, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, boards,
commissions, agents, representatives and employees as additional insureds, as
their interest may appear under this section except workers compensation and
employer's liability, which insurance shall be maintained during and for one
year after termination of the permit. Expected coverage shall be the same or
substantially similar to the following:
      1.   General liability insurance with limits of:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) per occurrence for bodily
injury (including death); and
         b.   Two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) for property damage resulting
from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) general aggregate including
premises-operations, products/completed operations, and explosion, collapse and
underground hazards.
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles in the
amount of two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) combined single limit for each
accident for bodily injury and property damage.
      3.   Worker's compensation within State statutory limits and employer's
liability insurance with limits of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each
accident/disease/policy limit.
Upon receipt of notice from its insurer(s) applicant shall provide City with
thirty (30) days' prior written notice of cancellation of any required
coverage.
The applicant shall obtain, furnish to the City replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   P.   Financial Assurance: Upon the approval of an SCF application, the
permittee shall post a bond, letter of credit, or other form of surety
acceptable to the City.
      1.   The purpose of such financial assurance shall be to:
         a.   Provide for the removal of abandoned or improperly maintained
SCFs, including those that the City determines need to be removed to protect
public health, safety, or welfare;
         b.   Restoration of the ROW in connection with removals as provided
for in this chapter; or
         c.   Recoup rates or fees that have not been paid by the permittee in
over twelve (12) months, so long as the permittee has received reasonable
notice from the City of any of the non-compliance listed above and an
opportunity to cure.
      2.   The amount of the financial assurance shall be two hundred dollars
($200.00) per approved SCF permit. For permittees with multiple SCFs within the
City, the total amount of financial assurance across all facilities may not
exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), which amount may be combined into one
surety instrument. (Ord. O2018-18, 12-26-2018)
9-9-7: RELOCATION:
All small cell facilities shall be constructed and maintained so as not to
obstruct or hinder the usual travel on or safety of the public right-of-way or
obstruct any legal use of the City's right-of-way or uses of the right-of-way
by utilities or other providers. If, in the reasonable determination of the
City, a small cell facility needs to be relocated for reasons of public health,
safety or welfare, or ROW maintenance or construction projects, then the small
cell facility shall be relocated at the owner's or operator's expense. If the
owner or operator of the small cell facility fails to complete any relocation
as required by the City within ninety (90) days of mailing of written notice,
the City may commence and complete the relocation and charge the owner or
operator of the small cell facility for the actual and reasonable costs of the
relocation, including any reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses. (Ord. O2018-
18, 12-26-2018)
9-9-8: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED SMALL CELL FACILITIES, UTILITY POLES, AND OTHER SCF
SUPPORT STRUCTURES:
Any SCF, utility pole or other SCF support structure that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months or is no longer authorized by a small
cell facility permit or other permit shall be considered abandoned, and the
owner of such SCF, utility pole or other SCF support structure shall so notify
the City in writing and remove the same within ninety (90) days of giving
notice to the City of such abandonment. Failure to remove an SCF, utility pole,
or other SCF support structure within said ninety (90) days shall be grounds
for the City to remove the SCF, utility pole, or SCF support structure, at the
owner's expense, including all costs and reasonable attorneys' fees. If there
are two (2) or more users of a single utility pole or SCF support structure,
then these provisions shall not become effective until all users cease using
the utility pole or SCF support structure. (Ord. O2018-18, 12-26-2018)
9-9-9: GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION:
In addition to and distinct from the insurance requirements of this chapter,
each applicant hereby agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City
and its officers, officials, boards, commissions, employees, agents and
representatives from and against any and all damages, losses, claims and
expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees and costs of suit or defense,
arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or result from the
acts, omissions, failure to act or misconduct of the applicant or its
affiliates in the construction, installation, operation, maintenance, repair,
removal or replacement of the SCF. This section shall not require the applicant
to indemnify or hold harmless the City for any losses, claims, damages, and
expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence or willful misconduct
of the City. (Ord. O2018-18, 12-26-2018)
9-9-10: APPEAL PROCESS:
If a permit is denied in the administrative review process, then the applicant
may appeal that decision to the Planning Commission for further consideration.
If that same permit or a request for a conditional use permit is denied by the
Planning Commission, then the applicant may appeal that decision to the City
Council for further consideration. (Ord. O2018-18, 12-26-2018)
9-9-11: APPLICATION FEES AND RATES:
   A.   Application Fees: A permit for SCF including a utility pole or SCF
structure shall be limited to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for up to five (5)
SCFs, and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each additional SCF on the
application.
   B.   Recurring Fees: A wireless provider authorized under this chapter to
place SCFs and any related utility pole or SCF support structure in the ROW
shall pay to the City a ROW access fee of up to two hundred seventy dollars
($270.00) per site per year to cover all recurring fees, including the cost of
ongoing monitoring of each site for compliance with the terms of this chapter
and for the health, safety, and welfare of the general public, and for the
attachment of SCF's to City-owned or controlled utility poles or SCF support
structures. Recurring fees shall be paid annually on or before January 15th of
each year beginning the calendar year after installation. The City Council
shall establish and adjust recurring fee rates by resolution.
   C.   Increase Of Fees: The application fee and the recurring fees under this
section shall be the sole compensation that the wireless provider shall be
required to pay the City. However, the rates of either the application fee or
the recurring fees may be increased due to extreme circumstances but in no case
may such fees exceed a reasonable approximation of the City's actual and
reasonable costs. (Ord. O2018-18, 12-26-2018)
9-9-12: SEVERABILITY:
The various parts, sentences, paragraphs, sections and clauses of this chapter
are hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph, section
or clause is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. O2018-18, 12-26-2018)
9-9-13: CONFLICT:
These small cell facilities regulations are in addition to other regulations in
this Code. In case of a conflict between regulations, the more restrictive
provisions shall apply. (Ord. O2018-18, 12-26-2018)
CHAPTER 15
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
(Rep. by Ord. O2022-01, 2-14-2022)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE, INTERPRETATION, AND JURISDICTION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Intent And Purpose
10-1-2: Jurisdiction
10-1-3: Savings Clause
10-1-4: Interpretation
10-1-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The Mitchell city council deems it necessary, in order to lessen congestion in
the streets, to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers, to promote
health and the general welfare, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent
the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population, to
facilitate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and
other public requirements, to protect the total environment of the community
and its inhabitants, to conserve the value of buildings and property and
encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the city and within its
zoning jurisdiction as described and delineated in the master plan for the
city, adopted by the Mitchell city planning commission and approved by the
Mitchell city council September 1990, as such plan now exists or may be
amended, with reasonable consideration and in accordance with such
comprehensive plan, to enact this zoning title. The major street plan approved
by city council in 2002 is on file with the Davison County register of deeds
and displayed at Mitchell City Hall. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-1-2: JURISDICTION:
This title shall apply to all real property within the corporate limits of the
city and within the area known as the area of extraterritorial jurisdiction
that has been mutually agreed upon by the city of Mitchell council and the
Davison County board of commissioners, which is depicted on the official zoning
maps of the city of Mitchell and Davison County and as such limits now exist or
as they may be changed. The following described properties are within the
zoning jurisdiction of the city of Mitchell:
Mitchell Township 103-60; Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, W 1/2 11, 14, 15, 16,
17, E 1/2 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, W 1/2 24, NW 1/4 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, E1/2 30, 32,
33, 34, and NE 1/4 & the W 1/2 of 35;
Perry Township 104-60; Sections 27, 28, 29, E 1/2 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-1-3: SAVINGS CLAUSE:
This title shall in no manner affect pending actions, either civil or criminal,
founded on or growing out of any ordinance or part of any ordinance hereby
repealed; this title shall in no manner affect rights or causes of action,
either civil or criminal, not in suit that may have already accrued or grown
out of any ordinance or part of any ordinance hereby repealed. (Ord. 2408, 10-
1-2012)
10-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not the
intent of this title to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements,
covenants or deed restrictions; however, where this title and another
ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this title are hereby repealed to the extent of
this inconsistency only. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
title is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this title shall not be affected thereby.
The catch heads appearing in connection with the sections of this title are
inserted simply for convenience to serve the purpose of an index. The
introductory statements found at the beginning of each chapter are to serve as
general references only. The catch heads, introductory statements and
illustrative examples of zoning terms shall be wholly disregarded by any
person, office, court or other tribunal in construing the terms and provisions
of this title. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
10-2-2: Definitions Of Words And Phrases
10-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
All terms and abbreviations shall have the same meanings as they are now
defined and used by law, statutes and other chapters of this code or as they
may be amended, except as they are specifically defined otherwise for the
purpose of this zoning title. When reference is made to any thing, condition,
rule, statute or ordinance, it shall be deemed to refer thereto as it exists or
may be amended unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the past and future.
   B.   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   D.   The word "may" is permissive.
   E.   The word "used" or "occupied" shall include the words "intended",
"designed", or "arranged to be used or occupied".
   F.   The word "person" shall include a "firm", "association",
"organization", "partnership", "trust", "company" or "corporation", "LLC" as
well as an "individual".
   G.   The word "building" shall include the words "structure" and "premises".
   H.   Any word not herein defined shall be as defined in a recognized English
dictionary. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
When used in this title, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY: A use, activity, structure, or part of a structure that is
subordinate and incidental to the main activity or structure on the site.
ACCESSORY AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE: A structure customarily incidental and
necessary to farming and the raising of animals including, but not limited to,
barns, coops, corrals, pens, stables, silos and other structures for storage of
machinery or crops.
ADJUSTMENT TRAINING FACILITY: Community support providers certified by
appropriate state agency providing prevocational, vocational and resident
training for individuals with developmental disabilities.
AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES ESTABLISHMENTS (Implement): Establishments
selling, renting, or repairing agricultural machinery, equipment and supplies
for use in soil preparation and maintenance, the planting and harvesting of
crops, and other operations and processes pertaining to farming and ranching.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT PROCESSING FACILITY: A business activity customarily
designed to process raw agricultural products into value added products.
Agricultural processing facilities include, but are not limited to, feed mills,
ethanol plants, soybean processing facilities, cheese plants, milk processors,
packing plants, and rendering facilities.
AGRICULTURAL SALES AND SERVICE: A use primarily engaged in the sale or rental
of farm tools, feed, grain, tack, animal care products and farm supplies. This
excludes large implement, such as tractors and combines.
AGRICULTURE ACTIVITY: Farming, including plowing, tillage, cropping,
installation of best management practices, seeding, cultivating, orchards, or
harvesting for the production of food and fiber products; grazing and raising
of livestock, aquaculture, sod production, tree plantations, nurseries, apiary,
soil conservation (except animal concentrated feeding operations).
AIRPORT: A place where aircraft can land and take off, usually equipped with
hangars, facilities for refueling and repair, and various accommodations for
passengers.
ALCOHOL SALES (OFF-SALE): The sale of any alcoholic beverage, for consumption
off the premises where sold.
ALCOHOL SALES (ON-SALE): The sale of any alcoholic beverage, for consumption
only upon the premises where sold.
ALLEY: A public or private right of way which affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting properties.
ALTERATION (STRUCTURAL): When any owner or authorized agent intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a
building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing system, the
installation of which may be regulated by code, ordinance or state statute, or
to cause such work to be done, shall be deemed an alteration. All alterations
may require an application to the appropriate building official for any
required permits.
ANIMAL BOARDING: Any structure, land, or combination thereof used, designed, or
arranged for the boarding, breeding or care of domestic animals for profit, but
exclusive of animals for agricultural purposes.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL/CLINIC: Any building or portion of a building designed or used
for the care, observation or treatment of domestic animals. These facilities
may also include temporary indoor kenneling of recovering animals.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any premises designated for impoundment, caring for animals
running at large, abandoned or otherwise subject to impoundment by local
government ordinances; including the adoption of animals or other functions of
a humane society facility.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, or corporation requesting approval of any land
use, development, or improvement application, or similar entitlement regulated
by zoning or other municipal code.
APPLICATION: The process by which an applicant submits a request and indicates
a desire to be granted a permit under the provisions of this title. An
application may include written documentation, statements, and representations
in whatever form.
ASSEMBLING AND PACKAGING: An operation where manufactured parts are assembled
into a complete machine or structure and packaged for shipment.
ASSEMBLY HALL (AUDITORIUM): An open area, partially enclosed area, or a
building or a portion of building used for gathering for such purposes such as
deliberation, worship, auditorium, dancing, meeting and conference activities,
education, dining and entertainment, spectators' sports, expositions, and other
public gatherings, including amphitheaters.
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: An intermediate term care facility licensed by the
state of South Dakota providing personal care and services beyond food,
shelter, and laundry. The facilities include the supervision of self-
administration of medication and other services such as recreational,
financial, and transportation services. The facilities may admit those and
retain only those who do not require more than intermittent nursing care by a
licensed nurse.
AUTOMOTIVE DEALERSHIP (SALES): A retail business primarily housed in a
structure and characterized by a mixture of related uses upon a commercial
site; however, the principal use of the site shall be the marketing of new or
used motor vehicles, whether by sale, rent, lease, or other commercial or
financial means. Secondary supporting uses may also exist upon the same site,
such as maintenance, repair and service areas, parts storage areas, and
financial service areas.
AUTOMOTIVE PARTS/SUPPLY RETAIL: The use of any land area for the display and
sale of new or used parts and accessories for motor vehicles, trailers, or
recreation vehicles.
AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SERVICES: The use of a site for repair of automobiles,
trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational vehicles, or boats, including
the sale, installation, and servicing of equipment and parts. This use includes
muffler shops, auto repair garages, tire sales and installation, wheel and
brake shops, transmission repair, body and fender shops, and similar repair and
service activities, but excludes dismantling and salvage.
AUTOMOTIVE STORAGE YARD: The temporary storage or impoundment in an unroofed
area of licensed and operable vehicles.
BAKERY: A place for preparing, cooking, baking or selling of bakery products
and may be included in grocery stores, food service provider or eating
establishment.
BASEMENT: Any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a
floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a
basement unless such floor level qualifies as a "first story" as defined in
this section.
BATCHING PLANT: An industrial facility used for the production of asphalt or
concrete or concrete products, used in building or construction, and includes
facilities for the administration or management of the business, the
stockpiling of bulk materials used in the production process or of finished
products manufactured on the premises and storage and maintenance of required
equipment, but does not include the retail of finished asphalt or concrete
products.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS: A private single-family residence occupied by
the owners, which is used to provide limited meals and temporary accommodations
for a charge to the public.
BEVERAGE BOTTLING: A facility used for the production and preparation of
beverages for wholesale distribution and human consumption.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The board that is granted the authority set forth by state
statute and municipal ordinance that in appropriate cases and subject to
appropriate and safe conditions, safeguards, grant variances, appeals and
conditional uses to the terms of the ordinance.
BOARDING HOUSE: A dwelling as distinct from a hotel or motel where, for
compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals and/or lodging
are provided.
BOARDING SCHOOL: A school under the sponsorship of a private agency,
corporation, or religious entity, having a curriculum generally equivalent to
public elementary or secondary schools accredited by the state of South Dakota
and provides room and board for its students; but excluding private trade or
commercial schools. "Childcare centers" as herein defined, shall not be
considered schools as applicable to this definition.
BOAT SALES: The use of any building or land area for the display and sale or
rent of new or used boats, trailers or other types of watercraft.
BOWLING ALLEY: An indoor facility for the sport of bowling, with customary
accessory uses such as food and beverage services.
BREWPUB (MICROBREWERY): A facility that includes the brewing of alcoholic
beverages. The brewing operation processes water, malt, hops, yeast and other
ingredients into alcoholic beverages by mashing, cooking, fermenting and other
processes performed on the site.
BUILDING: Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosures of persons,
animals, chattels, or property of any kind, and when separated by party walls
without openings, each portion of such building so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
Accessory: A structure located on the same parcel with the main (principal)
building, detached or attached, and is subordinate and customarily incidental
to the use of the main (principal) building.
Principal: A building in which the primary use of the parcel on which the
building is located is conducted.
BUILDING AREA: The areas of a zoning lot remaining after the minimum yard and
open space requirements of the zoning ordinance have been met.
BUILDING CODE: A code or codes governing the erection, construction,
renovation, demolition, relocation, or maintenance of buildings as currently
adopted by the city.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the lowest point of the building,
structure, or wall exposed above the ground surface to the highest point of the
roof, parapet wall, or uppermost part. Chimneys, vents, or utility service
structures shall not be included in the measurement of vertical structures.
BUILDING LINE (SETBACK): A line parallel to and equidistant from relevant lot
line (front, back, and side) between which no buildings or structures may be
erected as prescribed by zoning regulation. The measurement shall commence from
the building's overhang (excluding gutters) and the zoning lot line.
BUILDING PERMIT: Permission in writing that is issued by the proper authority
for the construction, repair, alteration, demolition, relocation, or addition
to structure(s).
BUSINESS SERVICES: Establishments primarily engaged in rendering services to
business establishments on a fee or contract basis, such as, but not limited
to, advertising and mailing, building maintenance, employment services,
management and consulting services, protective services, equipment rental and
leasing, commercial research, development and testing, and photo finishing.
CAMPGROUND: An area that is occupied or intended or designed or improved for
occupancy by transient occupancy by camping in tents, camp trailers,
recreational vehicles, motor homes, or mobile trailers for dwelling, lodging,
or sleeping purposes.
CAR WASH (INDUSTRIAL): Mechanical facilities for washing, waxing, and vacuuming
of automobiles, heavy trucks, and buses.
CAR WASH (SELF-SERVICE): A car wash wherein the customer provides labor and
where no self-propelled wash racks are provided.
CEMETERY: Land used or dedicated to the burial of the dead, including
mausoleums, necessary sales, and maintenance facilities. This includes
columbarium and cremation burials.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A document issued by the proper authority allowing
the occupancy or use of a building and certifying that the structure or use has
been constructed or will be used in compliance with all the applicable
municipal codes and ordinances and state laws and regulations.
CHANGE OF USE: Substitution of one thing for another specifically regarding use
of land or use of a building.
CHANGE OF USE CERTIFICATE: Written authorization to change the use of land or
building.
CHILDCARE CENTER, PRESCHOOL, AND NURSERY: A facility intended primarily for
care of children of preschool age and infants. It may also provide educational
instruction and developmental skills. May have employees and be commercial in
nature and may be located within a religious or educational institution.
CHILDCARE (FAMILY RESIDENTIAL): A home which generally provides care,
protection, and supervision of children in the provider's own home, while the
parents or guardians are away.
CLINIC: See definition of Personal Health Services.
COFFEEHOUSE: An establishment that sells primarily coffee and other similar
refreshments and may include the sale of coffee beans, baked pastries, bagels,
cookies, cold and hot sandwiches and soup.
COMMUNITY CENTER: A building used for social, recreational or other activities
by a group of people with common interests but not primarily for profit or to
render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
COMMUNITY GARDEN: A private or public facility for cultivation of fruits,
flowers, vegetables, or ornamental plants, by more than one person or family.
COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A temporary residential treatment facility licensed and/or
accredited by the state of South Dakota for persons in need of supportive
living including support staff, which provides therapy and counseling to
residents.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: Any document which describes in words, and may illustrate
by maps, plats, charts, and other descriptive matter, the goals, policies, and
objectives of the municipality to interrelate all functional and natural
systems and activities relating to the development of the territory under its
jurisdiction.
CONCENTRATED FEEDING OPERATION: A facility where more than five hundred (500)
animal units are stabled, confined, fed, or maintained in either an open or
housed lot for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period. The open lot does not sustain crops, vegetation, forage growth, or
postharvest residues in the normal growing season. Two (2) or more facilities,
whether under common ownership or not under common ownership, but which bear
some incident or operational relationship, are a single animal operation if
they are situated within one mile, or if they use a common system or area for
the production and processing of or distribution of feed or disposal of manure.
The acronym CAFO (concentrated animal feeding operation) shall be governed by
this definition.
No CAFO (concentrated animal feeding operation) shall be permitted anyway
within the zoning jurisdiction of the city of Mitchell, South Dakota.
CONCRETE MANUFACTURING AND PROCESSING: See definition of Batching Plant.
CONDITIONAL USE: As defined by South Dakota Codified Laws 11-4-4.2 a
conditional use is any use that, owing to certain special characteristics
attendant to its operation, may be permitted in a zoning district subject to
the evaluation and approval by the approving authority specified in South
Dakota Codified Laws 11-4-4.1. A conditional use is subject to requirements
that are different from the requirements imposed for any use permitted by right
in the zoning district.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit issued by the city authority stating that a
conditional use complies with all conditions and standards set forth in the
zoning ordinance and authorized by the respective authority.
CONGREGATE CARE HOUSING: A facility to provide apartment living for persons
over the age of fifty five (55) or persons subject to chronic illnesses or
infirmities but who do not need a level of nursing care provided in a licensed
nursing home or assisted living facility. Congregate care housing need not be
licensed by the state of South Dakota, but must provide at least one common hot
meal per day for residents in the facility.
CONTIGUOUS: Next to or abutting, or touching and having a boundary, or portion
thereof, which is common or coterminous.
CONTRACTOR'S SHOP AND STORAGE YARD: Use of land or buildings for storage and
preparation of materials used by the same individuals in conducting the
business of construction and repair work generally completed at some other on
site location.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A small retail establishment that offers a limited line of
groceries and household items. The store may have on site services of food or
beverages preparation for immediate consumption or sale. It is designed to
attract large volume of stop and go traffic. The establishment may also include
fuel dispensing facilities.
CREMATORIUM: A location containing properly installed, certified apparatus
intended for use in the act of cremation.
DETAILING SHOP: A facility which provides services, such as applying paint
protectors, interior and exterior cleaning and polishing as well as
installation of aftermarket accessories such as tinting, auto alarms, spoilers,
sunroofs, headlight covers and similar items. However, engine degreasing or
similar automotive services may not be included in this definition unless
appropriate permits from city, state or other public agencies are secured.
DETENTION FACILITY (JAIL): Prisons or similar detention facility for
incarceration of people at the direction of the court or the South Dakota
department of corrections.
DEVELOPMENT: The carrying out of any construction, reconstruction, alteration
of surface, structure, change of land use or intensity of use, and including,
but not limited to, the deposit of refuse, solid or liquid waste, and mining or
drilling operation, or work in relation to the creation of a road, street or
parking area.
DRIVE-UP SERVICE WINDOW/DEVICE: An establishment which accommodates patrons
from their motor vehicles from which the patron may obtain or receive a service
or obtain a product through a service window or automated device.
DWELLING, SINGLE-, TWO- OR MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling for one, two (2) or more
families. The term "dwelling" as used in this title shall not include mobile or
manufactured homes, as defined in this title, or as defined by South Dakota
Codified Laws, or as defined in the national manufactured home construction and
safety standards act.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for occupancy
as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary facilities
provided within a dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single family
maintaining a household.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION (SCHOOL): A public, parochial, private, charitable, or
nonprofit school, offering instruction for preschool, elementary and/or
secondary students. Also included are facilities offering instruction for
students of a junior or community college, college, university, vocational or
technical institution (including industry training and support), including
instructional and recreational uses, with or without living quarters, dining
rooms, restaurants, heating plants, assembly halls, and other incidental
facilities for students, faculty, administrators and support staff.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE: Any vehicle that operates, either partially or exclusively,
on electrical energy from the grid, or an off board source, that is stored on
board for motive purpose. "Electric vehicle" includes: a battery electric
vehicle and a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION: A public or private parking space that is
served by battery charging station equipment that has as its primary purpose
the transfer of electric energy (by conductive or inductive means) to a battery
or other energy storage device in an electric vehicle. An electric vehicle
charging station equipped with level 1 or level 2 charging equipment.
Electric Vehicle Charging Station; Public: An electric vehicle charging station
that is: a) publicly owned and publicly available (e.g., park and ride parking,
public library parking lot, on street parking) or b) privately owned and public
available (e.g., shopping center parking, nonreserved parking in multi-family
parking lots).
Electric Vehicle Charging Station; Restricted: An electric vehicle charging
station that is: a) privately owned and restricted access (e.g., single-family
home, executive parking, designated employee parking), or b) publicly owned and
restricted (e.g., fleet parking with no access to the general public).
Rapid Charging Station: An industrial grade electrical outlet that allows for
faster recharging of electric vehicle batteries through higher power levels and
that meets or exceeds any standards, codes, and regulations of the federal,
state or local government.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE PARKING SPACE: Any marked parking space that identifies the
use to be exclusively for the parking of an electric vehicle.
EQUIPMENT RENTAL: See definition of Business Services.
EXPLORATION FOR MINERALS: The act of searching for or investigating a mineral
deposit, including, but not limited to, sinking shafts, tunneling, drilling
cave, and bore holes, and digging pits or cuts and other work for the purpose
of extracting samples prior to commencement of development of extraction
operations, and the building of roads, accessways and other facilities related
to such work.
EXTRACTION OF MINERALS (MINING): The extraction of minerals, including solids,
such as coal, ores; liquids, such as crude petroleum; and gases, such as
natural gases. The term also includes quarrying; well operation, milling, such
as crushing, screening, washing and flotation; and other preparation
customarily done at the extraction site or as a part of the extractive
activity.
EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTIONAL TERRITORY: The power of the municipality to
plan and zone the area agreed by the municipality and the county.
FABRICATION: The manufacturing, excluding the refining or other initial
processing of basic raw materials such as metal, ores, lumber, or rubber. This
also relates to assembling, stamping, cutting or otherwise shaping the process
materials into useful objects.
FAMILY: A person living alone or any of the following groups living together as
a single nonprofit housekeeping unit and sharing common living, sleeping,
cooking, and eating facilities (as referenced in the building code):
Any number of people related by blood, marriage, adoption, guardianship, or
foster care.
Not more than four (4) unrelated people and any children related to any of
them.
A group of no more than seven (7) people who are "disabled" as defined by the
fair housing act, 42 USC section 3602(h) and which is confirmed by a record of
impairment through a state licensed adjustment training center or similar
organization licensed by the state of South Dakota.
FARM (HOBBY): An activity carried out in rural residential areas, which
includes the planting, cultivating, harvesting and storage of grains, hay or
plants, fruits, or vineyards. The raising and feeding of livestock and poultry
shall be considered as part of a hobby farm if the area, in which the livestock
or poultry is kept, is one acre or more in area for every one animal unit, and
if such livestock does not exceed ten (10) animal units.
FARM OCCUPATION: A business activity customarily carried out on a farm by a
member of the occupant's family without structural alterations in the building
or any of its rooms, without the installation or outside storage of any
machinery, equipment or material other than that customary to normal farm
operations, without the employment of more than the equivalent of two (2) full
time employees not residing in the home, which does not cause the generation of
additional traffic in the area. Farm occupations include, but are not limited
to, seed sales and custom combining support facilities.
FARM UNIT: A unit of buildings and structures that are needed in an
agricultural operation, including dwellings for owners, operators, and other
family members.
FARMSTEAD: The area surrounding and adjacent to the house and main buildings,
including, the driveway and the land lying between the farmstead and the road.
For the purposes of this title a farmstead shall include a residential
structure fit for human habitation and the customary outbuildings such as
barns, sheds, grain bins, etc.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION (SERVICES): A building used for the custody, loan,
exchange, investment or issuance of money and for the transmission of funds.
This use may include a drive-up service window/device. Examples include banks,
savings and loan, credit unions, payday loaning.
FIREWORKS SALES: The sale of any substance or combination of substances or
articles prepared for purpose of producing visible or an audible effect by
combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation, which include, but not
limited to, firecrackers, torpedoes, sky rockets, roman candles, day-go bombs,
sparklers, or other fireworks of like construction, any fireworks containing
any explosive or flammable compound, or any tablet or other device containing
any explosive substances.
FIRST STORY: The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a story, except
that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be
classified as a first story, providing such floor level is not more than four
feet (4') below grade for more than fifty percent (50%) of the total perimeter,
or more than eight feet (8') below grade at any point.
FUEL DISPENSING STATION: Any building or premises which provides for the retail
sale of fuel for motor vehicles or oil. No automobile repair work or sale of
auto accessories or testing may be done.
FUEL SERVICE STATIONS: Any building or premises used for the retail sale of
liquefied petroleum products for the propulsion of motor vehicles and including
such products as kerosene, fuel oil, packaged naphtha, lubricants, tires,
batteries, antifreeze, motor vehicle accessories and other items customarily
associated with the sale of such products and for the rendering of service and
making of adjustments and replacements to motor vehicles as incidental to other
services rendered.
FUNERAL HOME (MORTUARY): A building used primarily for human funeral services.
Such building may contain space and facilities for preparation of the dead and
for burial, performance of autopsies and surgical procedures, storage of
caskets, urns and related funeral supplies, storage of funeral vehicles and
includes funeral chapel for services.
GAME FARM: An area of five (5) acres or more, which is used for producing
hatchery, raised game and nondomestic animals for sale to private shooting
preserves.
GAME LODGE: A building or group of detached, or semidetached, or attached
buildings occupied or used as a temporary abiding place of sportsmen, hunters
and fishermen, who are lodged, with or without meals, and in which there are
more than two (2) sleeping rooms.
GOLF COURSE: A public or private area operated for the purpose of playing golf,
and includes, but is not limited to, a par 3 golf course, clubhouse and
recreational facilities, driving ranges, and miniature golf courses, and
similar uses.
GRADE (Adjacent To Ground Elevation): The average elevation of the land around
a building; the percent of rise or descent of a sloping surface.
GRAIN TERMINAL (ELEVATOR): Grain storage facilities, which are the principal
and primary use of the parcel. Said facilities are generally equipped with
devices for housing and discharging significant grain. This definition does not
include normal farm product storage and warehousing facilities such as grain
bins and where such storage is an accessory use to the parcel.
GREENHOUSE (NURSERY) GARDEN CENTER: Retail business whose principal activity is
the selling of plants and having outside storage, growing, or display.
GROCERY STORE (MARKET): See definition of Retail Services And Trade.
HANGAR: A building on an airport used for housing and repairing aircraft.
HARDSHIP (UNNECESSARY): A restriction on property so unreasonable that it
results in an arbitrary and capricious interference with basic property rights.
Hardship relates to the physical characteristics of the property, the personal
circumstances of the owner or user, and the property is rendered unusable
without the granting of a variance.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Any containment and any hazardous chemical constituting a
physical or health hazard as defined and classified in the building code or
fire code.
HELIPORT: An area designated to facilitating the arrival and departure of
helicopters.
HIGH WATER LEVEL (MARK): That mark established on Lake Mitchell that will be
found by examining the bed and banks and ascertaining where the presence and
action of waters are so common and usual and so long continued in ordinary
years. The current mark is determined to be one thousand two hundred sixty six
feet (1,266') as determined by the city of Mitchell public works department.
HISTORIC SITE: Lands with sites, structures, or objects of local, regional,
statewide, or national historical significance.
HOME OCCUPATION: A use incidental and secondary to a property's primary
residential use. A home occupation use shall meet all applicable legal
requirements as set forth in chapter 5, article G of this title.
HORTICULTURE: The science or art of cultivating fruits, vegetables, flowers,
and plants.
HOSPICE RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: One or more buildings or portion thereof, on
a zoning lot in which terminally ill persons live in order to receive
appropriate hospice care.
HOSPITAL: An institution providing primary health services and medical or
intensive treatment for alcohol and drug abuse to persons, primarily
inpatients, suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity, and other
abnormal physical or mental conditions, and including, as an integral part of
the institution, related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient
facilities, or training facilities.
HOTEL (MOTEL): See definition of Retail Services And Trade.
INDOOR CROP PRODUCTION: The use of a site for the raising and harvesting of
indoor crops on a commercial basis, including packaging and processing, and
including the use of accessory buildings located on-site.
JUNKYARD (SALVAGE): The temporary or permanent storage outdoors of junk, waste,
discarded, salvaged, or used materials or inoperable vehicles or vehicle parts.
This definition shall include, but not be limited to, the storage of used
lumber, scrap, metal, tires, household garbage, furniture, and inoperable
machinery, and as further defined in the current edition of city's adopted
building and fire code. This definition shall include outdoor storage of normal
residential equipment and related activities such as garden tools, lawn mowers,
wood piles, grass clippings, and similar items.
LABORATORY:
Research: A building or group of buildings in which are located facilities for
scientific research, investigation, testing or experimentation, but not
facilities for the manufacture or sale of products, except incidental to the
main purpose of the laboratory.
Support: A facility used for scientific laboratory analysis of natural
resources, medical resources, and manufactured materials. The scientific
analysis is generally performed for an outside customer, to support the work of
that customer. This category includes environmental laboratories for the
analysis of air, water, and soil; medical or veterinary laboratories for the
analysis of blood, tissue, or other human medical or animal products. Forensic
laboratories for analysis of evidence in support of law enforcement agencies
would also be included in this category.
LANDSCAPE BUSINESS: A business principally engaged in the decorative and
functional alteration, planting, and maintenance of grounds. Such business may
engage in the installation and construction of underground improvements but
only to the extent that such improvements (e.g., drainage facilities) are
accessory to the principal business and are necessary to support or sustain the
landscaped surface of the ground.
LAUNDROMAT (DRY CLEANER): See definition of Personal Service Establishments.
LIVESTOCK MARKET (AUCTION/SALE BARN): An enclosure or structure designed or
used for holding livestock for the purposes of sale or transfer by auction,
consignment, or other means.
LOADING SPACE: An unobstructed area provided and maintained for the temporary
parking of trucks and other motor vehicles for the purpose of loading and
unloading goods, wares, materials, and merchandise.
LOCKER (BUTCHER): A retail store supplying meat and poultry products where meat
processing is making cuts of meat from limited slaughtering of live animals and
preprocessed carcasses.
LODGING HOUSE: A dwelling containing a single-family unit with not more than
six (6) guestrooms where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to
previous arrangement, but not open to the public or transients.
LOT, CORNER (Zoning): A lot abutting on two (2) or more streets at their
intersection.
LOT DEPTH (Zoning): The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
zoning lot lines.
LOT, FLAG: A lot so shaped and designed that the main building site area is set
back from the street on which it fronts and includes access strip connecting
the main building site with the frontage street.
LOT, FRONT (Zoning): The front of a zoning lot is a side abutting on a public
right of way.
LOT, INTERIOR (Zoning): A zoning lot other than a corner zoning lot.
LOT, IRREGULAR: A lot whose opposing property lines are generally not parallel,
such as a pie shaped lot on a cul-de-sac, or where the side property lines are
not parallel to each other.
LOT WIDTH (Zoning): The mean horizontal distance between the side zoning lot
lines measured parallel to the street line or its chord if curved.
LUMBERYARD: A facility where building materials such as lumber, plywood,
drywall, paneling, cement blocks, and other cement products, and other building
products are stored and sold. Lumberyards may also process lumber by performing
millwork, planing, cutting, and other customizing processes. Lumberyards may
provide for the sale of associated products including tools and fasteners.
MAJOR STREET PLAN: A document that consists of a map and/or written narrative
of a municipality's future collector and arterial streets that are incorporated
as a part of municipality's comprehensive plan or as a stand alone document.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure used exclusively for human habitation, which is
constructed on a permanent chassis in compliance with the national manufactured
home construction and safety standards act, formerly known as the national
mobile home construction and safety standards act, subsequent to June 15, 1976
(the effective date of said national manufactured home construction and safety
standards act) and which is transportable in one or more sections.
MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY: A parcel of land which has been planned and
improved for the placement of manufactured or mobile homes for residential use,
with a single control or ownership.
MANUFACTURING: The mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or
substances into new products, including the assembling of component parts, the
manufacturing of products and the blending of materials.
Custom: Establishments primarily engaged in the on site production of goods by
hand manufacturing, within enclosed structures, involving the use of hand
tools, or the use of mechanical equipment commonly associated with residential
and commercial uses, or a single kiln.
Light: The manufacturing, predominately from previously prepared materials, of
finished products or parts, including processing, fabrication, assembly,
treatment, and packaging of such products, and incidental storage, sales and
distribution of such products, provided all manufacturing activities are
contained entirely within a building and noise, odor, smoke, heat, glare, and
vibration resulting from the manufacturing activity are confined entirely
within the building.
Medium: The processing and manufacturing of materials or products predominately
from extracted or raw materials. These activities do not necessitate the
storage of large volumes of highly flammable, toxic matter or explosive
materials for the manufacturing process.
Heavy: The manufacturing of products from raw or unprocessed materials, where
the finished product may be combustible or explosive. This category shall also
include any manufacturing establishment or facility using large unscreened
outdoor structures such as conveyor belt systems, cooling towers, cranes,
storage silos, or similar equipment that cannot be integrated into the building
design, or engaging in large outdoor storage. Any industrial use that generates
noise, odor, vibration, illumination, or particulate that may be offensive or
obnoxious to adjacent land uses, or requires a significant amount of on site
hazardous chemical storage shall be classified under this land use. This use
shall include any packaging of the product being manufactured on site. Examples
include, but are not limited to, the production of the following: large scale
food and beverage operations, lumber, milling, and planing facilities;
aggregate concrete and asphalt plants, foundries, forge shops, open air
welding, and other intensive metal fabrication facilities; chemical blending,
mixing, or production, and plastic processing and production.
MAXIMUM ZONING LOT COVERAGE: The maximum portion of a zoning lot that may be
occupied by buildings or structures, including accessory buildings and
structures and expressed as a percentage of a lot's total area.
MINIMUM LOT AREA (YARD): The area within the exterior lines of the zoning lot,
exclusive of any area in a public or private way open to public uses.
MOBILE HOME: A structure used exclusively for human habitation, constructed in
a manufacturing facility prior to June 15, 1976 (the effective date of national
manufactured home construction and safety standards act, formerly known as the
national mobile home construction and safety standards act) and which is
transportable on a permanent chassis. A mobile home shall be construed to
remain a mobile home subject to all regulations applying thereto, whether or
not wheels, axles, hitch or other appurtenances of mobility are removed and
regardless of the nature of the foundation provided. A mobile home shall not be
construed to be a recreational vehicle.
MODULAR HOME: Any building used exclusively for human habitation, constructed
off site and in compliance with the applicable local or state building codes
and which is transported on a temporary chassis to a permanent building site.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A lawful structure which exists on the date of passage
hereof that could not be built under the terms of this title by reason of
restrictions on area, lot, height, yard setbacks, or other characteristics of
the structure.
NONCONFORMING USE: A legal use, structure, or development which existed prior
to the adoption of the ordinance or any amendment thereto, which does not
presently conform to the ordinance or its amendments.
NURSING HOME: An extended or intermediate care facility licensed or approved to
provide full time convalescent or chronic care to individuals who, by reason of
advanced age, chronic illness or infirmity, are unable to care for themselves.
OFF STREET PARKING: A site or a portion of a site, devoted to the off street
parking of vehicles, including parking spaces, aisles, access drives, and
providing vehicular access to a public street as required by chapter 11,
article A of this title.
OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL: An office building for the use of a person or persons
generally classified as professional. A building designed for or used as the
office of professional, commercial, industrial, financial, religious,
institutional, public, or semipublic persons or organizations. Broadcast
stations, offices and studios shall be considered to be office buildings;
broadcast towers as defined in this title shall not be so considered.
OPEN SPACE: An area or portion of land, either landscaped or essentially
unimproved and which is used to meet human recreation, habitat protection,
resource protection, environmental regulations, buffering conflicting land
uses, and spatial needs.
OUTDOOR SALES: The use of building, land area, or their premises which provides
for the display and sale of new or used automobiles, trucks, or vans,
recreational vehicles, camping trailers, modular, manufactured, or mobile
homes, boats, utility trailers, and storage sheds.
OUTSIDE COMMERCIAL STORAGE: The short term or long term leasing for the parking
or storage of motor vehicles, equipment, or personal items outside.
OUTSIDE STORAGE: The keeping in an unroofed area of any goods, junk, material
or merchandise in the same place for more than one month.
OWNERSHIP LINE: A line defining ownership of property between owners of record.
PARCEL: Legally defined piece of property including a platted lot; legally
described piece of property primarily used as an identifier within taxation.
PARK (PLAYGROUND): Any public or private land available for recreational,
educational, cultural or aesthetic use. This may also include designated open
space.
PARKING FACILITY (Public And Private): An approved, hard surface open or
enclosed off street parking area or structure where licensed and operable motor
vehicles are temporarily parked for a fee or allowed without a fee by a public
entity or private party.
PARKING SPACE: An area enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in size to park one
motor vehicle.
PERMITTED USE: The listing of uses, buildings or land which are acceptable in a
particular zoning district. A building permit may be issued for a permitted use
set forth under a listing of "permitted uses" based upon a properly filed
application without further action.
PERSONAL HEALTH SERVICES: Establishments primarily engaged in providing health
services, including, but not limited to, medical, dental, chiropractic,
ophthalmology, optometry, audiology, physical therapy, massage therapy, and
mental health services.
PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS: Establishments providing nonmedical related
services and personal in nature, including beauty and barber shops, clothing
rental, dry cleaning pick up stores, to include, but not limited to:
laundromats (self-service laundries), psychic readers, shoe repair, tanning
salons, photographic studios, tattoo parlors, and travel agencies. These uses
may also include accessory retail sales of products related to the services
provided.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The city planning commission for the city of Mitchell,
South Dakota.
PRINT PLANT: A commercial printing operation involving a process that is
considered printing, imprinting, reproducing, or duplicating images and using
printing methods including, but not limited to, offset printing, lithography,
web offset, flexographic, and screen process printing. This includes
publication of newspapers, magazines, books and other mass printing
publications.
PRINTING SHOP: A facility used for custom reproduction of written or graphic
materials on a custom order basis for individuals or businesses. Typical
processes include, but are not limited to, photocopying, blueprint, and
facsimile sending and receiving and including offset printing.
PRIVATE CLUB: A group of people organized for a common purpose to pursue common
goals, interests or activities, and usually characterized by certain membership
qualifications, payment of fees and dues, regular meetings, and a constitution
and bylaws.
PRIVATE SHOOTING PRESERVES: An acreage of at least one hundred sixty (160)
acres and not exceeding one thousand two hundred eighty (1,280) acres either
privately owned or leased on which hatchery raised game and/or larger game is
released for the purpose of hunting, for a fee, over an extended season.
PROCESSING: To subject some special process or treatment, as in the course of
manufacture; change in the physical state or chemical composition of matter;
the second step in uses of natural resources; examples include petroleum
refining, oil shale crushing, retorting, and refining, ore smelting, coal
crushing and cleaning, sawmill, alfalfa pellet mills, food canning or
packaging, creation of glass, ceramic, or plastic materials, gravel crushing,
cement manufacture, concrete batch plants.
PROCESSING (LIGHT): Those processing activities which are not obnoxious due to
odor, noise, vibration, pollution, smoke, heat or glare. These uses are
characterized by generally having all aspects of the process carried on within
a building.
PROPERTY LINE: The division between two (2) parcels of land, or between a
parcel of land and the right of way.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or to be occupied by a street,
railroad, transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water lines, storm or
sanitary sewer lines, pedestrian walkways or other public or special use. The
use of the term "right of way" for platting purposes shall mean that every
right of way hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate
and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right of way and not
included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights of way
shall be dedicated to public use by the owner of the plat on which such rights
of way are established.
PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY: Local, state, or federal governmental facilities and
uses that provide an essential public purpose or service including, but not
limited to, postal service, administration, a police station, judicial court,
fire station, maintenance facilities, ambulance service, transit or
transportation transfer station, library, community center, public recreation
facility, or office, but not including the following: public utility or
treatment stations, sanitary landfills or facilities for incarcerated persons.
QUARRY: A surface excavation used for the removal of rock, stone, sand, gravel,
and fill dirt for sale or uses off site, and includes sifting, crushing, and
washing and bagging.
RACETRACK: A measured course where animals or machines are entered in
competition against another or against time, including tracks used only in the
training of animals; may include seating, concession areas, and parking
facilities.
RADIO AND TELEVISION STUDIO (Communication Services): Establishments primarily
engaged in the provision of broadcasting and other information relay services
accomplished through the use of electronic and telephonic mechanisms. Excluded
are facilities classified as major utility services or broadcasting or
communication towers. Typical uses include television studios,
telecommunication service centers, telegraph service offices, or film and sound
recording facilities.
RAIL TERMINAL OR SERVICE (USE): The occupation and use of land, buildings, and
structures directly connected with rail transportation of articles, goods, and
passengers, including such facilities as tracks, sidings, signal devices and
structures, shops and yards for maintenance and storage of rail machinery,
loading platforms, and passenger and freight terminals, but excluding freight
terminals and yards, and similar facilities which are maintained and operated
by the owning railroad or by a lessee for the purposes of auxiliary to rail
transportation; provided, however, that the operation of such facilities as a
hobby or as part of an amusement business shall not be considered a railroad
use.
RAILROAD TERMINAL STATIONS AND ACTIVITIES: A facility for the operation of a
line haul or short line freight railroad.
RECREATION INDOOR FACILITY: A commercial or public recreational land use
conducted entirely within a building or group of buildings, including arcade,
arena, art gallery and studio art center, assembly hall, athletic and health
clubs, auditorium, bowling alley, club or lounge, community center, conference
center, exhibit hall, gymnasium, library, movie theater, museum, performance
theater, pool and billiard hall, skating rink, swimming pool, tennis court and
other activities.
RECREATION OUTDOOR FACILITY: Predominantly participant uses conducted in open
or partially enclosed or screened facilities. Typical uses include driving
ranges, miniature golf, swimming pools, tennis courts, outdoor racquetball
courts, motorized cart and motorcycle tracks and motorized model airplane
flying, outdoor skating, baseball, softball, soccer, football, golf, tennis and
skateboard and similar activities. The property may be publicly or privately
owned.
RECYCLING CENTER: A building and/or area in which used material is separated
and processed prior to shipment to others who will use those materials to
manufacture new products.
REFINING: A process in which a substance is reduced to a pure state or
perfected through the elimination of impurities.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: A place of worship or religious assembly with related
facilities such as the following in any combination: rectory, or convent,
meeting hall, offices for administration of the institution, childcare,
playground, cemetery, parsonage, and accessory buildings. This use includes
church, synagogue, temple, mosque or other place of worship.
RENDERING: A building or premises used for the processing or temporary storage
of dead animals.
RESIDENTIAL ASSOCIATION (HOMEOWNER): A community association, which is
organized in a development in which individual owners share common interests in
open space or facilities.
RESIDENTIAL CARE: A residential style facility in a residential zoning
district, licensed and/or accredited by the state of South Dakota with capacity
for no more than twelve (12) persons, which reside for counseling and/or
supportive services.
RETAIL SERVICES AND TRADE: Establishments engaged in selling products, goods or
merchandise to the general public for personal or household consumption; and
establishments engaged in providing services or entertainment to the general
public including, but not limited to, eating establishments, hotels, motels
(conference facilities), repair shops, indoor amusements, theaters, copying
services, health, professional, educational, and social services, and other
miscellaneous services.
RETAIL WAREHOUSE: A building operated by a specific commercial establishment,
where goods and materials are to be moved to the commercial establishment or
where the general public may pick up merchandise sold on site or at a different
location.
RIDING STABLE: A place that has more than fifteen (15) stalls or horse spaces
to board, train, or provide recreational equine activities.
ROADSIDE STAND: A temporary structure which is not permanently affixed to the
ground and is readily removable in its entirety, which is used solely for the
display or sale of farm products.
RODEO GROUNDS: A building or place where rodeo events such as roping and riding
are done for practice or competition.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site and related facilities at which the method
of disposing solid waste is by landfill.
SCREENED: Concealing or covering a use in a manner which reduces the view of
such use from adjacent properties.
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY: A building or group of buildings consisting of
individual, self-contained units leased to individuals, organizations, or
businesses for self-service storage of personal property.
SERVICE STORE: A facility that provides maintenance, repairs or incidental
services without producing a tangible or material commodity.
SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM: Any system, other than individual septic tank, tile
field or individual well, which system is operated by a municipality,
governmental agency, or utility for the collection, treatment, and disposal of
wastes and the furnishing of water, that is compliant with state and federal
regulations.
SHOOTING RANGE: An area or structure specially designed for the safe discharge
and use of rifles, shotguns, pistols, silhouettes, skeet, trap, black powder,
or any similar firearm for the purpose of sport shooting or military/law
enforcement.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of commercial establishments planned and designed for
the site on which it is built, functioning as a unit, with off street parking
and landscaped areas, provided on the property as an integral part of the unit.
SIGN STORE: An establishment where the primary use is the retail sale of signs,
banners, vehicle signage, or similar items. Limited on site fabrication of
signage may be permitted.
SITE PLAN: A scaled view showing the proposed uses and structure(s) for a
parcel of land as required by the regulations involved. It includes building
location, property lines, streets, open space, access drives, landscaping and
parking areas.
SMELTING: A facility where metals are melted or fused with an accompanying
chemical change.
SPOT ZONING: An arbitrary zoning or rezoning of a small tract of land, usually
surrounded by other uses or zoning categories that are of markedly or
substantially different intensity that is not consistent with the comprehensive
land use plan, and primarily promotes the private interest of the owner rather
than the general welfare.
STREET LINE: The line between a street or avenue right of way and an abutting
zoning lot.
STREET(S) (AVENUES, ROADS, LANES, DRIVES):
Arterial Street: A principal traffic artery, more or less continuous across the
city, which acts as a principal connecting street with state and federal
highways and includes each street designated as an arterial street on the major
street plan.
Collector Street: A street which carries traffic from local streets to arterial
streets or highways, including the principal entrance streets of a residential
development and streets for circulation within such development.
Local Street: A street intended to provide access to other streets from
individual properties and to provide right of way beneath it for various
utilities but not intended to be used for through traffic.
STUDENT HOUSING (OFF CAMPUS): Any housing for students not located within an
educational institution's campus, however an integral part of the institution
or the institutional theme. Uses include, but are not limited to, dormitories,
fraternities, sororities, and theme houses.
SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT FACILITY: A facility for the purposes of temporary or
long term inpatient treatment of victims of alcohol or drug use or addiction.
SUPPORTIVE LIVING HOMES: A group of people living together in transition to a
productive life. Supportive living homes are designed as a step down from a
halfway house with lesser restrictions and increased responsibility to the
resident for their own recovery. This home shall include no more than twelve
(12) people living together who are "handicapped" as defined in the fair
housing act, 42 USC section 3602(h) and which is confirmed by a record of
impairment by supportive living home operator. This definition does not include
the following:
   A.   Persons currently illegally using a "controlled substance" as defined
in the controlled substances act, 21 USC section 802(6).
   B.   Persons considered as an immediate danger or who pose a threat of
physical injury to self or others making it necessary or advisable to receive
appropriate supports and services when based upon reliable and objective
evidence of current threatening conduct or recent history of overt acts.
The supportive living home operator must be able to confirm a record of
impairment of their residents by certifying both of the following:
   A.   Each occupant has completed inpatient or outpatient treatment.
   B.   Each occupant must be actively and continuously enrolled in a twelve-
step recovery program.
TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER HEIGHT: The vertical distance above grade to include
base pad, tower structure, and antenna hardware, excluding lightning
protection.
TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER SITE: The telecommunications tower site shall be the
lot of record for which the telecommunications tower is located.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER: A self-supporting lattice, guyed lattice, or monopole
structure which supports wireless communications facilities. The term includes
new and existing towers that are used for services such as microwave, common
carrier, cellular telephone, personal communication services, two-way radio
paging, and other similar services. The term telecommunications tower does not
include amateur radio operators' equipment, as licensed by the federal
communications commission.
TEMPORARY BUILDING: Any building not permanently affixed to the land.
TEMPORARY OR EMERGENCY SHELTER: A facility providing refuge to persons who
require physical, social, or psychological therapy and counseling to assist
them in overcoming physical or emotional problems which includes, but is not
limited to, missions, shelters, or detoxification centers. Exception: All
temporary or emergency shelter facilities associated with a declared state of
emergency by local, state, or federal government are exempted.
TEMPORARY USE: Those land uses and structures that are needed or are in place
for only short periods of time.
THEATER: A structure used for dramatic, operatic, motion pictures, or other
performance, for admission to which entrance money may be received.
TRUCK STOP: A facility intended to provide services to the trucking industry,
including, but not limited to, the following activities: dispensing of fuel,
repair shops, automated washes, restaurants, and motels, all as part of the
facility.
TRUCK TERMINAL: Any premises used by a motor freight company, as a carrier of
goods, which is the origin or destination point of goods being transported, for
the purpose of storing, transferring, loading or unloading goods.
UTILITY STATION: A building, structure, or property used or intended to be used
by any public utility, including, but not limited to, any gas treatment plant
reservoir, tank or other storage facility; water treatment plant, well,
reservoir, tank, or other storage facility, electric generating plant,
distribution, or transmission substation; telephone switching or other
communication plant, earth station, or other receiving or transmission
facility; any storage yard for public utility equipment or vehicles; and any
parking lot for parking vehicles to serve the public utility.
VARIANCE: A departure from any provision of the zoning requirements for a
specific parcel, except use, without changing the zoning ordinance or the
underlying zoning of the parcel. A variance is granted only upon demonstration
of hardship based on the peculiarity of the property in relation to other
properties in the same zoning district.
VETERINARIAN SERVICES: See definition of Animal Hospital/Clinic.
WHOLESALE MERCHANDISING, WHOLESALE TRADE: Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial,
commercial, institutional or professional business users, or to other
wholesalers; or acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise for, or
selling merchandise to, such individuals or companies.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot measured
between the front lot line and the front building line.
YARD, FRONT (LAKE): A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot
measured between the high water level of Lake Mitchell and the front building
line (lake side).
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot measured
between the rear lot line and the rear building line.
YARD, REAR (LAKE): A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot
measured between the rear lot line (road side) and the rear building line.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard and measured
between the side zoning lot lines and the side building line.
ZERO LOT LINE DEVELOPMENT: Single-family dwellings arranged on individual lots
as detached structures with one or more side walls on a side property line.
ZONING CODE: This title or any subsequent revisions hereof.
ZONING CODE AMENDMENT: A change in the wording, context, or substance of this
title or a change in the zoning or district boundaries of the official zoning
map, to be made part of this title.
ZONING DISTRICT: An area or areas within the jurisdiction of the city of
Mitchell for which the regulations and requirements governing use, lot, and
size of building and premises are uniform.
ZONING LOT: A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied, or
capable of being occupied, by a permitted principal building or a group of such
buildings and accessory buildings, or utilized for a principal use and uses
accessory thereto, together with such open spaces as required by code.
ZONING LOT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: An agreement that is required to be signed by
the owners of the real property when one lot is not in compliance with the
zoning laws, but is waived because two (2) or more lots will be combined to
allow compliance. The agreement will require all future conveyances to be as
one parcel.
ZONING MAP: The map or maps that are part of zoning code and that delineate the
boundaries of all mapped zoning districts within the boundary of the
jurisdiction of the city. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2454, 11-4-2013;
Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015; Ord. O2022-17, 11-14-2022)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Administrative Authorities
10-3-2: Fees And Costs
10-3-3: Board Of Adjustment Powers And Duties
10-3-4: Changing The Zoning Districts Classification
10-3-5: Change Of Zoning District Regulations And Standards
10-3-6: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy For Conditional Uses And
Variances
10-3-1: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITIES:
The administration and enforcement of this title is hereby placed in the public
works department. The officials of that department are authorized and directed
to enforce the provisions of this title. For such purpose, they shall have the
powers to act as agents of this city.
   A.   If the building official along with any employee within the public
works department and/or any employee of the public safety department, shall
find that any provision of this title is being violated, he/she shall notify,
in writing, the person responsible for such violation and order discontinuance
of use of land, structures or buildings, removal of buildings or structures or
of additions or alterations or structural changes thereto, discontinuance of
any illegal work being done or take any other action authorized by this title
or elsewhere stated in this code or state statute. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
   B.   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this title, the appropriate
authorities of the city may in addition to other remedies, institute
injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion,
maintenance or use, and may correct or abate such violation or prevent the
occupancy of said building, structure or land. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord.
2512, 4-6-2015)
   C.   For each violation of the provisions of this title, owner, contractor
or other persons interested as general agent, architect, engineer, land
surveyor, building contractor, owner, tenant or any other persons who commit,
take part in or assist in any violation of this title or who maintain any
building or premises or uses of any land in violation of this title, shall, for
each and every violation, be fined as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code. Whenever such person shall have been officially notified by
the building official or code enforcement authorities or by service of a
summons in a prosecution, or in any other official manner, that said person has
committed or is committing a violation, each day's continuance of such
violation after such notification shall constitute a separate offense
punishable as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-3-2: FEES AND COSTS:
The city council shall, by resolution, establish a schedule of fees, charges
and expenses and a collection procedure for all matters pertaining to this
title. Such schedule shall be posted in the office of the building official.
Nothing shall be filed or issued until and unless the prescribed fees, charges
and expenses have been deposited with the finance officer. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-
2012)
10-3-3: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT POWERS AND DUTIES 1 :
The board of adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Appeals: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is
error in any order, requirement or decision made by the building official in
the enforcement or interpretation of this title. In exercising its official
powers, the board shall have the powers of the official from whom the appeal is
taken. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
      1.   Filing: Appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by any decision of
the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within fifteen (15)
calendar days, as provided by the rules of the board, by filing with the
building official and the finance officer a notice of appeal, specifying the
grounds thereof and deposit of the necessary fees as prescribed by the schedule
of fees and charges established by the city council. The finance officer shall
forthwith notify the mayor and building official of said appeal. (Ord. 2408,
10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
      2.   Stays: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the building official from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the board, after the notice of appeal is submitted to him/her,
that, by reason of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his
opinion, cause imminent peril of life and property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order issued by the board.
      3.   Appearance At Hearing: At the hearing, any person may appear in
person, by agent or attorney. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
      4.   Vote: The concurring vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the full membership
of the board of adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision or determination of the building official, and in
compliance with South Dakota Codified Laws 11-4-24. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd.
Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
   B.   Variances: The board of adjustment may authorize such variances from
the terms of this title and the city subdivision ordinance 2  as will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of the ordinances would result in unnecessary
hardship. Under no circumstances shall the board grant any variance to allow a
use that is not permissible under the terms of this title in the district
involved. Variances apply only to yards, signs, height, and coverage, parking
or loading requirements but shall not be granted unless and until the following
procedures have been complied with:
      1.   Application: A written application, accompanied by the appropriate
fees and the following information:
         a.   A survey, site plan, or similar documents prepared by a
registered land surveyor, which shows, to scale, existing buildings and
property lines. The aforementioned materials shall also show the proposed
addition, expansion and an indication of the variance request. The survey shall
also show all neighboring property improvements.
         b.   What conditions, if any, exist on this building lot and do not
exist on other building lots in the district, causing the need for the
variance.
         c.   Why a strict interpretation of the zoning code would deprive the
owner of rights commonly enjoyed by others in the same district.
         d.   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from
actions of the applicant.
         e.   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other land,
structures or buildings in the district.
         f.   The property owner shall cause the building corners of the
proposed expansion to be staked on the property.
Nonconforming uses of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in the same
district, and permitted use of lands, structures or buildings in any other
district, shall not be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
      2.   Notification Of Property Owners: Upon receipt of the above defined
application, the public works department shall notify, by direct mail, all
property owners within one hundred forty feet (140') of the property, not
including alleys and streets rights of way. The address of property owners
shall be the last known address as established on county director of
equalization records. This notice shall give adjoining property owners a
minimum of five (5) days to respond.
         a.   The above notice shall explain the variance request and alert
adjoining property owners of any public hearings on the matter.
         b.   The notice shall also give adjoining property owners a form to
give their opinion of the request, which may be mailed to the building
official.
      3.   Recommendation To Board: A planning commission hearing shall be
scheduled after the five (5) day period above has been met. The planning
commission will hear the variance request and based upon a vote of the members
present will submit a recommendation to the board of adjustment.
      4.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of the recommendation of the planning
commission and after due notice of a public hearing the board of adjustment
will hear and act on the request.
      5.   Examination: The board of adjustment will examine the reasons set
forth in the application to justify the granting of the variance. The variance
is the minimum variance that would make possible a reasonable use of land,
buildings or structures.
      6.   Required Findings: The board of adjustment must find that granting
of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
title and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to
the public welfare. If the board finds the variance does not meet the
aforementioned criteria the request shall be denied. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
      7.   Consideration Of Submission And Testimony: The planning commission
and board of adjustment will only consider the site plan, building plans, and
drawings submitted by the applicant, staff, interested parties and testimony
presented to said body. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
      8.   Appearance At Hearing: At the hearing, any person may appear in
person, by agent or attorney.
      9.   Vote: The concurring vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the
board of adjustment shall be necessary to decide in favor of the appellant on
any matter upon which it is required to pass under any zoning ordinance, or to
effect any variation in such ordinance and in compliance with South Dakota
Codified Laws 11-4-24.
      10.   Reapplication: No applicant requesting a variance, whose
application includes the same or substantially the same requirements for the
same or substantially the same property as that which has been denied by the
board of adjustment, shall be again considered by the planning commission and
submitted to the board of adjustment before the expiration date of six (6)
months from the date of the final action on the previous application.
      11.   Building Permit Issuance: A building permit will be issued only
after the board of adjustment approves the variance(s) in accordance with state
statute and the municipal ordinances.
      12.   Expiration Of Variance: The variance shall expire two (2) years
from the date upon which it becomes effective if the construction is not
completed.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The board of adjustment may authorize by a
conditional use permit the uses designated in this title when located in a
zoning district allowing such use. The board of adjustment shall impose such
conditions as a part of the conditional use permit as are appropriate and
necessary to ensure compliance with the comprehensive plan and to protect the
public health, safety and general welfare. Unless expressly modified by the
board of adjustment, all regulations of the zoning district in which the use is
located shall apply.
      1.   Application For Permit: An application for conditional use permit
shall be filed with the public works department.
         a.   Such application shall state the proposed modifications to
existing zoning and shall be accompanied by general plans.
         b.   The applicant's submitted plans shall show the improvements to be
erected upon the tract, the open spaces to be provided, the nature and the
location of the proposed use or uses, the relationship of the proposed
development to surrounding properties and such other information of such
sufficient scope and character as to determine that the intent of this chapter
will be met.
         c.   The planning commission, city council, board of adjustment or any
city staff may require any documentation and data that is deemed relevant to
the consideration of the conditional use application.
         d.   Any proposed division of the tract into separately owned and
operated units shall be indicated. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
         e.   The planning commission and board of adjustment will only
consider the site plan, building plans, and drawings submitted by the
applicant, staff, interested parties, and testimony presented to said body.
(Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
      2.   Notice:
         a.   The public works department shall send notice thereof to each of
the owners of record of all property lying within one hundred forty feet (140')
of the tract measured by excluding streets and alleys rights of way for which
the conditional use is requested and the applicant's request. The commission
shall publish such notice in the municipality's legal newspaper once not less
than ten (10) nor more than fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing.
         b.   Said notice shall contain the date, time and place of hearing and
the general substance of the application, including the parcels involved.
         c.   The hearing shall be conducted and held in accordance with rules
adopted by the planning commission.
         d.   The planning commission shall submit its recommendations to the
finance officer within thirty (30) days after the hearing.
      3.   Planning Commission Minutes: A conditional use permit may be granted
by the board of adjustment only after the filing of planning commission
minutes, which include findings and conclusions by the planning commission.
      4.   Time Of Hearing: The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time
(within 60 days) for the hearing of any appeals or any question which shall
require public notice and give public notice thereof, as well as notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time.
      5.   Approval Criteria: The board of adjustment shall act upon the
application for conditional uses in accordance with the provisions of this
title whereby the board of adjustment is authorized by this title to grant
conditional uses, with such conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under
this title, and to deny conditional uses when not in harmony with the purpose
and intent of this title. The board shall find the following to approve the
application for a conditional use permit:
         a.   The use sought to be permitted is in accordance with the
comprehensive plan of the city, including all plans of redevelopment and
renewal; and
         b.   Such use will not be grossly detrimental in any way to nearby
affected property or to their occupants; and
         c.   Such use meets the overall density, coverage, yard, height and
all other regulations of the district in which such use is sought; and
         d.   A public hearing has been held thereon by the planning
commission.
      6.   Appearance At Hearing: At the hearing, any person may appear in
person, by agent or attorney. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
      7.   Vote: The concurring vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the full membership
of the board of adjustment elected shall be necessary to decide in favor of the
appellant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any zoning
ordinance, or to effect any variation in such ordinance. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012;
amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
      8.   Permit Required: No land or structures may be used, built, designed,
constructed or altered for a conditional use until a conditional use permit is
issued.
      9.   Permit Expiration: A conditional use permit shall expire two (2)
years from the date upon which it becomes effective if the construction is not
completed.
      10.   Existing Uses: An existing use eligible for a conditional use
permit which was lawfully established on the effective date of this title shall
be deemed to have received a conditional use permit as herein required and
shall be provided with such permit by the city upon request, and it shall not
be a nonconforming use, provided, however, for any enlargement, extension, or
relocation of such existing use, an application in accordance with this section
shall be required.
      11.   Conformance To Standards: Any conditional use approved by the board
of adjustment shall conform to the standards for such uses set forth by the
board. These standards shall be construed to be the minimum requirements for
any of the specified conditional uses and the board of adjustment requires
additional requirements in their discretion. In all cases, the impact of the
proposed use on the adjacent properties will be a significant consideration.
      12.   Reapplication: No applicant requesting a conditional use permit,
whose application includes the same or substantially the same requirements for
the same or substantially the same property as that which has been denied by
the board of adjustment, shall be again considered by the planning commission
and submission to board of adjustment before the expiration date of six (6)
months from the date of the final action on the previous application. (Ord.
2408, 10-1-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 3 of this code.
2 1. See title 11 of this code.
10-3-4: CHANGING THE ZONING DISTRICTS CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Application: A proposed change in the zoning district classification or
boundaries of the zoning map may be initiated by the city council, city
planning commission or the owners of property within the area requested to be
changed. A written application shall be filed with the public works department
requesting a change in the zoning district classification; such application
shall be provided by public works department and shall be completed by the
applicant.
   B.   Planning Commission Hearing:
      1.   Application: Upon the filing of an application for a request of
zoning district classification change with the public works department,
accompanied by the remittance of the applicable fees, the department shall
draft the appropriate ordinance for consideration by the planning commission
and city council.
      2.   Notice: The planning commission shall send notice of the planning
commission and council hearings thereof. It shall be sent to each of the owners
of record of all property lying within one hundred forty feet (140') of the
tract measured by excluding streets and alleys rights of way for rezoning
requested and the application made. The commission shall publish such notice in
the municipality's legal newspaper once not less than ten (10) nor more than
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing.
      3.   Appearance At Hearing: Any interested person shall be given a full,
fair, and complete opportunity to be heard at the hearing. At the hearing, any
person may appear in person, by agent or attorney.
      4.   Planning Commission Findings: The planning commission shall submit
to the city council its written findings and conclusions on those applications
for zoning district regulation or classification changes that it has
considered.
   C.   City Council Hearing:
      1.   Application And Notice: The city council shall conduct a public
hearing and act on the submitted ordinance. Notice of the time and place of the
public hearing shall be given once at least ten (10) days in advance by
publication in a legal newspaper of the municipality. Any interested person
shall be given a full, fair, and complete opportunity to be heard at the
hearing, and the governing body may adopt or refuse the ordinance, with or
without amendment.
      2.   Appearance At Hearing: At the hearing, any person may appear in
person, by agent or attorney.
      3.   Review Of Planning Commission Decision; Determination: At such
public hearing, the city council shall review the decision and recommendation
of the planning commission of the proposed ordinance submitted to the city
council. The city council, in making its determination of such application, may
make changes in the zoning map in accordance with, or in modification or
rejection of, the recommendation of the planning commission. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-
2012)
      4.   Approval Or Denial: Approval or denial of any application for a
zoning district classification change shall be a majority of the members of the
city council. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
         a.   If a zoning ordinance is adopted, the ordinance shall be
published and take effect as other ordinances unless the referendum is invoked,
or unless a written protest is filed with the finance office, signed by at
least forty percent (40%) of the owners of equity in the lots included in any
district and the lands within two hundred fifty feet (250') from any part of
such proposed district.
         b.   A corporation shall be construed to be a sole owner, and when
parcels of land are in the name of more than one person, ownership
representation shall be in proportion to the number of signers who join in the
petition in relation to the number of owners.
         c.   If a protest is filed, the ordinance does not become effective
unless the ordinance is approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the city council. Such
written protest shall not be allowed as to any ordinance regulation or
establishing floodplain areas. See South Dakota Codified Laws 11-4-5.
      5.   Reapplication: No application requesting a zoning district
classification change on any property whose application includes any such
property either entirely or substantially the same as that which has been
denied by the city council shall again be considered by the planning commission
before the expiration of six (6) months from the date of the final action of
the city council on the previous application. However, this shall not prevent
the city council from acting on its own initiative in any case or at any time
as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-3-5: CHANGE OF ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Intent: A proposed amendment, supplement or change of the provisions of
this title may be initiated by the city council, city planning commission or
citizens of the city. A proposed ordinance stating the proposed amendment shall
be prepared by the public works department.
   B.   Planning Commission Hearing:
      1.   The planning commission shall schedule a date for a public hearing.
Notice of the hearing shall be by publication in the legal newspaper. The
notice shall be no less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing date. Any
interested person shall be given a full, fair, and complete opportunity to be
heard at the hearing.
         a.   Appearance At Hearing: At the hearing, any person may appear in
person, by agent or attorney.
      2.   The planning commission shall submit to the city council a written
recommendation of the proposed amendment to the zoning code.
   C.   City Council Hearing:
      1.   Application And Notice: The city council shall conduct a public
hearing and act on the submitted ordinance. Any interested person shall be
given a full, fair, and complete opportunity to be heard at the hearing and the
governing body may adopt or refuse the ordinance, with or without amendment.
      2.   Appearance At Hearing: At the hearing, any person may appear in
person, by agent or attorney.
      3.   Review Of Planning Commission Recommendation: At such public
hearing, the city council shall review the decision and recommendation of the
planning commission of the proposed ordinance submitted to the city council.
The city council, in making its consideration of such amendment may concur,
modify or reject the recommendation of the planning commission.
      4.   Approval Or Denial: Approval or denial of any application for a
zoning code amendment shall be a majority of the members of the city council
who are present and voting. If a zoning ordinance is adopted, the ordinance
shall be published and take effect as other ordinances unless the referendum is
invoked. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-3-6: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY FOR CONDITIONAL USES AND
VARIANCES:
   A.   Building Permits: Applicants for building permits for conditional use
permits and variances shall file detailed plans with the building official
showing the details of the proposed development as fully as possible and
including elevations and perspectives of proposed construction. No building
permit for the proposed development or any part thereof shall be issued unless
the detailed plans are in accordance with the application and general plans as
approved and with the intent as stated in this title.
The building permit issued is valid for a period of two (2) years. If the
construction is not completed within the two (2) year period, the new permit
must be acquired and necessary fees must be paid for said permit.
   B.   Time Limitation For Construction: If construction of improvements has
not begun and diligently prosecuted to completion as established in subsection
A of this section, and if an extension of time is not given by the building
official for good cause shown, the building official shall thereupon revoke the
building permit and the same shall become null and void. Furthermore, the
conditional use permit and/or variance shall expire.
   C.   Issuance Of Certificate Of Occupancy And Compliance Required: The
building official shall not issue any certificate of occupancy unless occupancy
is in compliance with this title. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued
until a detailed report is submitted by the applicant to the building official
showing the outcome of construction and compliance with the conditions or
standards set forth by the board of adjustment or city council. (Ord. 2408, 10-
1-2012)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS, ZONING MAP AND OVERVIEW
SECTION:
10-4-1: Enumeration
10-4-2: Overlay Districts
10-4-3: Zoning Districts And Map
10-4-4: Similar Uses
10-4-5: General Standards
10-4-6: Manufactured Homes Or Structures
10-4-1: ENUMERATION:
In order to regulate and restrict height and size of buildings and other
structures, the percentage of a parcel that may be occupied, the size of the
yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of population, and the
location and use of buildings, structures and land for residential, commercial,
industrial or other purposes, the city and the area of extraterritorial
jurisdiction is hereby divided into the following districts:
R-L Lake residential
R-1 Single-family residential
R-2 Single-family residential
R-3 Medium density residential
R-4 High density residential
R-5 Single-family and manufactured housing residential
NS  Neighborhood shopping
HB  Highway oriented business
CB  Central business
TWC Transportation, warehousing and commercial
I   Industrial
PL  Public lands and institutions
CN  Conservation
UD  Urban development
PD  Planned developments
 
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-4-2: OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
The city may designate a zoning overlay district, imposing special regulations
upon the properties that fall within a designated overlay district without
eliminating the requirements imposed by the underlying land use regulations.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-4-3: ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP:
   A.   Zoning Map: The official zoning map, with all amendments thereto, is
displayed in the office of the public works department and by this reference is
made a part hereof as if fully set out at length herein.
   B.   Interpretation Of District Boundaries: Where uncertainty exists as to
the exact boundary of any district, the boundaries shall be interpreted as
following the nearest logical platted subdivision or parcel lines. When a
street is described as a boundary, it shall mean the center of such street
right of way. Disputes over boundaries shall be resolved by the city council.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-4-4: SIMILAR USES:
In order to ensure that the uses will permit uses similar to those identified
in each district, the planning commission, board of adjustment, and city
council, upon their own initiative or upon written application, shall determine
whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory, or conditional
use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory, or conditional use in
one or more districts on the basis of similarity to use specifically listed.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-4-5: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   No part of any yard, other than open space or off street parking or
loading space required in connection with any building or use shall be included
as part of a yard, open space, loading or parking space of any building or use.
      2.   The front yard depth on any zoning lot and the side yard of the side
of a corner zoning lot facing a street, where they abut on a "major street",
shall be measured from the proposed right of way line shown on the official
major street plan wherever a zoning lot abuts on a designated street.
      3.   Within the city's zoning districts and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction, the front yard setback shall commence from the identified right
of way property widths as indicated on the adopted city's major street plan;
except for the lakeside properties noted in the lake residential (R-L)
district. The right of way may be either platted or proposed to be expanded at
a future date.
   B.   Dwellings On Lots Of Record: In any district where dwellings are
permitted, a single-family dwelling may be located on any zoning lot or plat of
official record as of the effective date hereof, any two-family dwelling may be
located on any lot or plan in an R-3 residential district that has a zoning lot
width of not less than as established in section
10-5D-5 of this title and is of official record as of effective date hereof
provided.
   C.   Height Regulations:
      1.   Height limitations contained in any district regulations do not
apply to spires, steeples, belfries, cupolas, chimneys, water tanks,
ventilators, heating and cooling units, and elevator housing, if attached to a
structure.
      2.   All sending and/or receiving towers and/or antennas shall have a
maximum height of sixty feet (60') in all residential districts, measured from
the building grade level to the highest point of the tower or antenna,
including small wind energy systems. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
   D.   Accessory Buildings And Uses:
      1.   In the R-L, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5 and UD districts consisting of
residential properties, the accessory buildings and uses are limited to the
following:
         a.   Private residential garage (detached).
         b.   A storage shed, garden house, gazebo, pergola, noncommercial
greenhouse or pet shelter.
         c.   Swimming pool, tennis court, basketball court, or volleyball
court.
         d.   Similar uses customarily incidental to residential uses.
         e.   Detached carports.
         f.   Boathouses (adjacent to a body of water). (Ord. 2527, 1-4-2016)
      2.   No accessory building or use shall be constructed or established
upon a zoning lot located in a residential zoning district until the
construction of the principal building has actually commenced, and no accessory
buildings shall be used unless the principal building on the zoning lot is also
being used, unless approved by variance. The exterior appearance and materials
shall be consistent with residential construction materials and comparability
with the neighboring properties. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
      3.   The total square footage of all accessory buildings on a zoning lot
used for residential in the R-L, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5 and UD districts shall
not exceed the standards set forth in the respective district descriptions.
Exceptions are as follows:
Lots with apartment buildings, townhouses, condominiums, and similar uses.
(Ord. 2527, 1-4-2016)
   E.   Rear Yards: For the purposes of rear yard area for corner lots, the
portion of the secondary front yard abutting the rear yard shall be included in
the rear yard area. For the purposes of calculating the rear yard area for
double frontage lots or lots with more than two (2) frontages, the rear yard
area shall be opposite the assigned street address.
   F.   Alcohol Sales: Alcohol sales (on- and off-sale) are prohibited in
residential districts.
   G.   Conformance:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all buildings shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, structurally altered or used:
         a.   Only for the purpose permitted in the district in which the
structure or land is located;
         b.   Only in conformance with the height and minimum lot requirements,
and the parking, loading, stacking, and sign regulations and any other
applicable requirements of the district in which the structure or land is
located; (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
         c.   Only in conformance with federal and state law and in accordance
with all municipal ordinances and regulations as may be applicable. Where this
title and any other ordinance conflict or overlap, which imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall apply.
      2.   The density and yard regulations of this title are minimum
regulations for each building existing at the time of the effective date of
this title or for any building erected or structurally altered thereafter. No
land required for yards, zoning lot frontage or other open spaces adjacent to
an existing building or any building hereafter erected or structurally altered
shall be considered a yard, frontage, or zoning lot area for more than one
building except for a unit group of buildings. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
      3.   Every building erected or structurally altered after the effective
date of this chapter shall be located on a lot as herein defined and in no case
shall there be more than one main building on a lot except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
      4.   Cooperatives, corporations, condominiums and all other forms of
property ownership do not affect the application of these regulations and all
requirements shall apply as though the property were under single ownership.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-4-6: MANUFACTURED HOMES OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   The use of manufactured homes/structures or modular type buildings for
business occupancy and not for residential purposes may be allowed on a
temporary basis in the following districts only after an applicant has received
a temporary use permit for such use:
 
HB  Highway oriented business
NS  Neighborhood shopping
CB  Central business
TWC Transportation, warehousing and commercial
I   Industrial
 
   B.   The term of the temporary use permit for this purpose shall not exceed
thirty six (36) months. Under no circumstances may such manufactured home/
structure be placed on the property longer than thirty six (36) months.
   C.   An application for temporary use permit under the provisions of this
section shall include the proposed plan for use and improvements of the
premises following the expiration of the applied for temporary use permit.
   D.   A temporary use approved under this section shall not transfer with the
transfer of ownership of the premises in respect to which the temporary use is
approved, and temporary use permit shall lapse upon such transfer.
   E.   Wherever the requirements of this title are in conflict with that of
any other laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions or covenants,
the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
   F.   The city council may require a bond in an amount as determined by the
council, which would cover the costs of the removal of said building after the
expiration of the time in which permit was issued for the temporary placement.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT USES AND STANDARDS
ARTICLE A. R-L LAKE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Intent
10-5A-2: Permitted Uses
10-5A-3: Conditional Uses
10-5A-4: Accessory Uses
10-5A-5: Density, Area, And Height Regulations
10-5A-1: INTENT:
This district is designed to maintain public access to Lake Mitchell for
fishing, boating, and other recreational activities. This district is also to
establish the general location for single-family, low density residential
neighborhoods that are in harmony with area in the vicinity of Lake Mitchell.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Electric vehicle charging stations (restricted and rapid charging) and provided
the stations only serve the occupants of residential properties.
Open space.
Parks and playgrounds.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2454, 11-4-2013)
10-5A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Accessory uses and buildings not contained within the zoning lot of principal
buildings.
Childcare (family residential); however not allowed on properties on the
shoreline of Lake Mitchell.
Community gardens.
Home occupations that comply with article G of this chapter, with the exception
noted in subsection
10-5G-3A of this chapter. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015; Ord.
2527, 1-4-2016)
10-5A-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses and buildings permitted in this district customarily incidental
to any of the permitted uses and are contained within the zoning lot. (Ord.
2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2527, 1-4-2016)
10-5A-5: DENSITY, AREA, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   PROPERTIES WITH ACCESS TO THE SHORELINE OF LAKE MITCHELL
 
                         Minimum Minimum           Minimum   Maximum
        Minimum  Minimum Front   Rear    Minimum   Side Yard Zoning   Maximum
R-L     Lot Area Lot     Yard    Yard    Side Yard Corner    Lot      Height
                 Width   Lake    Road              Lot       Coverage
                         Side    Side
Single- 7,500                                                         21/
family  sq. ft.  75'     35'     30'     3'        20'       45%      2 stories
                                                                      or 35'
 
   PROPERTIES WITHOUT ACCESS TO THE SHORELINE OF LAKE MITCHELL
 
                 Minimum Minimum Minimum           Minimum   Maximum
R-L     Minimum  Lot     Front   Rear    Minimum   Side Yard Zoning   Maximum
        Lot Area Width   Yard    Yard    Side Yard Corner    Lot      Height
                                                   Lot       Coverage
Single- 7,500                                                         21/
family  sq. ft.  75'     30'     25'     3'        20'       45%      2 stories
                                                                      or 35'
 
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Accessory buildings in the R-L districts shall not exceed two
thousand (2,000) square feet and the principal and accessory buildings do not
exceed the maximum zoning lot coverage.
         a.   If the property has a shoreline to Lake Mitchell, this limitation
applies to accessory buildings located on the road side yard.
         b.   If the property does not have a shoreline to Lake Mitchell, this
limitation applies to accessory buildings located in the rear yard.
      2.   No accessory building shall exceed twenty two feet (22') in height.
      3.   Accessory buildings located on the shore of Lake Mitchell or within
the front yard (lake side) shall not exceed three hundred (300) square feet and
twelve feet (12') in height.
      4.   No separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet
(3') of any principal building's line.
      5.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots, with the footage to be measured from the overhang
building line. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE B. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Intent
10-5B-2: Permitted Uses
10-5B-3: Conditional Uses
10-5B-4: Accessory Uses
10-5B-5: Density, Area, And Height Regulations
10-5B-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this district is to establish the general location of single-
family, low density residential, exclusively. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Electric vehicle charging stations (restricted and rapid charging) and provided
the stations only serve the occupants of residential properties.
Open space.
Parks and playgrounds.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2454, 11-4-2013)
10-5B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Childcare, family residential.
Community garden.
Educational institution.
Religious institution. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5B-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Home occupations, unless the criteria set forth in section
10-5G-2 of this chapter is not met. Note subsection
10-5G-3A of this chapter.
Residential accessory buildings/structures/uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5B-5: DENSITY, AREA, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Single-                                              Minimum Maximum
Family      Minimum  Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Side    Zoning   Maximum
Residential Lot Area Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Yard    Lot      Height
R-1                  Width   Yard    Yard    Yard    Corner  Coverage
                                                     Lot
Single-     10,000                                                    21/
family      sq. ft.  80'     25'     25'     3'      20'     45%      2 stories
                                                                      or 35'
 
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Accessory buildings in the R-1 districts shall not exceed two
thousand (2,000) square feet and the principal and accessory buildings do not
exceed the maximum zoning lot coverage.
      2.   No accessory building shall exceed twenty two feet (22') in height.
      3.   No separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet
(3') of any principal building's line.
      4.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard.
      5.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots with the footage to be measured from the overhang
building line. On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements
on the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel
to the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than
sixteen feet (16'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE C. R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Intent
10-5C-2: Permitted Uses
10-5C-3: Conditional Uses
10-5C-4: Accessory Uses
10-5C-5: Density, Area, And Height Regulations
10-5C-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this district is to primarily establish the general location of
single-family, low density residential, with the possibility to permit uses
that may be in harmony with residential properties. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Electric vehicle charging stations (restricted and rapid charging) and provided
the stations only serve the occupants of residential properties.
Open space.
Parks and playgrounds.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2454, 11-4-2013)
10-5C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Adjustment training centers.
Bed and breakfast.
Childcare, preschool and nursery.
Community garden.
Educational institution.
Family residential daycare.
Hospitals.
Indoor recreational facility uses of existing buildings.
Lodging house.
Religious institutions.
Residential care.
Supportive living residences up to twelve (12) occupants.
Two-family dwellings. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2527, 1-4-2016)
10-5C-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory buildings and uses for approved conditional uses.
Home occupations, unless the criteria set forth in section
10-5G-2 of this chapter is not met. Note subsection
10-5G-3A of this chapter.
Residential accessory buildings/uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5C-5: DENSITY, AREA, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Single-                                              Minimum Maximum
Family      Minimum  Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Side    Zoning   Maximum
Residential Lot Area Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Yard    Lot      Height
R-2                  Width   Yard    Yard    Yard    Corner  Coverage
                                                     Lot
            10,000                                                    21/
Dwellings   sq. ft.  70'     25'     25'     3'      20'     45%      2 stories
                                                                      or 35'
            10,000                                                    21/
Other uses  sq. ft.  80'     25'     25'     3'      20'     45%      2 stories
                                                                      or 35'
 
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Accessory buildings in the R-2 districts shall not exceed two
thousand (2,000) square feet and the principal and accessory buildings do not
exceed the maximum zoning lot coverage.
      2.   No accessory building shall exceed twenty two feet (22') in height.
      3.   No separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet
(3') of any principal building's line.
      4.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard.
      5.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots with the footage to be measured from the overhang
building line. On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements
on the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel
to the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than
sixteen feet (16'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE D. R-3 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5D-1: Intent
10-5D-2: Permitted Uses
10-5D-3: Conditional Uses
10-5D-4: Accessory Uses
10-5D-5: Density, Area, And Height Regulations
10-5D-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this district is to afford flexibility for the establishment of
a broader range of uses, other than residential, that are not detrimental to
the overall intent of the residential neighborhoods. Although it accommodates
both residential and semicommercial uses it is not a business zone since the
overall consideration is for residential habitation and transition to multi-
family higher density. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5D-2: PERMITTED USES:
Electric vehicle charging stations (restricted and rapid charging) and provided
the stations only serve the occupants of residential properties.
Open space.
Parks and playgrounds.
Single-family dwelling.
Two-, three- and four-family dwellings. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2454,
11-4-2013)
10-5D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Adjustment training facility.
Assisted living facility.
Bed and breakfast.
Boarding schools.
Childcare center, preschool and nursery.
Childcare, family residential.
Community garden.
Community residence more than four (4) and less than twelve (12) units.
Congregate care housing.
Educational institutions.
Hospice residential facility.
Hospital.
Indoor recreational facility uses of existing buildings.
Lodging house.
Multi-family dwelling units between five (5) and twelve (12) units.
Nursing home.
Parking facility.
Personal health services.
Religious institutions.
Residential care facility between five (5) and twelve (12) units.
Supportive living home between five (5) and twelve (12) units. (Ord. 2408, 10-
1-2012; amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015; Ord. 2527, 1-4-2016)
10-5D-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory buildings and uses for approved conditional uses.
Home occupations, unless the criteria set forth in section
10-5G-2 of this chapter is not met. Note subsection
10-5G-3A of this chapter.
Residential accessory buildings/uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5D-5: DENSITY, AREA, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Medium                                              Minimum Maximum
Density     Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Side    Zoning   Maximum
Residential Lot     Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Yard    Lot      Height
R-3         Area1   Width   Yard    Yard    Yard    Corner  Coverage
                                                    Lot
1 dwelling  6,000                                                    21/
unit        sq. ft. 60'     25'     25'     3'      20'     60%      2 stories
                                                                     or 35'
2 dwelling  9,000                                                    21/
units       sq. ft. 75'     25'     25'     3'      20'     60%      2 stories
                                                                     or 35'
3 dwelling  12,000                                                   21/
units       sq. ft. 100'    25'     25'     5'      20'     60%      2 stories
                                                                     or 35'
4 dwelling  14,000                                                   21/
units       sq. ft. 100'    25'     25'     5'      20'     60%      2 stories
                                                                     or 35'
 
Note:
   1.    For each additional unit over 4 units add 1,500 square feet to the
minimum zoning lot area and 100 feet shall be the minimum lot width.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2476, 6-2-2014)
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Accessory buildings shall not exceed two thousand (2,000) square
feet per dwelling unit and the principal and accessory buildings do not exceed
the maximum zoning lot coverage.
      2.   No accessory building shall exceed twenty two feet (22') in height.
      3.   No separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet
(3') of any principal building's line.
      4.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard.
      5.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots with the footage to be measured from the overhang
building line. On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements
on the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel
to the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than
sixteen feet (16'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE E. R-4 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5E-1: Intent
10-5E-2: Permitted Uses
10-5E-3: Conditional Uses
10-5E-4: Accessory Uses
10-5E-5: Density, Area, And Height Regulations
10-5E-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this district is to afford flexibility for the establishment of
a broader range of uses, other than residential, that are not detrimental to
the overall intent of the residential neighborhoods. Although it accommodates
both residential and commercial uses it is not intended to be commercial zone
since the overall consideration is for residential habitation that permits
multi-family with higher density. Commercial uses are subject to a review
process. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5E-2: PERMITTED USES:
Adjustment training center facility.
Assisted living facility up to twenty four (24) units.
Boarding house.
Community residence up to twenty four (24) units.
Congregate care housing up to twenty four (24) units.
Educational institution.
Electric vehicle charging stations (restricted and rapid charging) and provided
the stations only serve the occupants of residential properties.
Lodging house.
Multi-family dwellings of twenty four (24) units or less.
Open space.
Parks and playgrounds.
Religious institution.
Residential care.
Single-family dwelling.
Supportive living homes.
Temporary or emergency shelter up to twenty four (24) units. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-
2012; amd. Ord. 2454, 11-4-2013)
10-5E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Assisted living center more than twenty four (24) units.
Bed and breakfast.
Boarding school.
Childcare center, preschool, nursery.
Community garden.
Community residence over twenty four (24) units.
Congregate care over twenty four (24) units.
Convenience stores.
Family residential daycare.
Fuel dispensing station.
Fuel service stations.
Funeral home and mortuary.
Hospice residential facility.
Hospital.
Indoor recreational facility uses of existing buildings.
Manufactured home communities.
Multi-family dwellings of more than twenty four (24) units.
Nursing home.
Office professional.
Parking facility.
Personal health services.
Personal services.
Retail services and trade.
Self-service storage facility with varying compartment sizes, fifty (50) to
four hundred (400) square feet per compartment, with the stipulation the
property be adjacent to a major collector or arterial street as designated by
the public works department.
Student housing (off campus).
Temporary or emergency shelter over twenty four (24) units. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-
2012; amd. Ord. 2476, 6-2-2014; Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015; Ord. 2527, 1-4-2016)
10-5E-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory buildings and uses for approved conditional uses.
Home occupations, unless the criteria set forth in section
10-5G-2 of this chapter is not met. Note subsection
10-5G-3A of this chapter.
Residential accessory buildings/uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5E-5: DENSITY, AREA, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
High                                                Minimum Maximum
Density     Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Side    Zoning   Maximum
Residential Lot     Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Yard    Lot      Height2
R-4         Area1   Width   Yard    Yard    Yard    Corner  Coverage
                                                    Lot
1 dwelling  6,000   60'     25'     25'     3'      15'     75%      6 stories
unit        sq. ft.                                                  or 65'
2 dwelling  8,000   75'     25'     25'     3'      15'     75%      6 stories
units       sq. ft.                                                  or 65'
3 dwelling  9,000   75'     25'     25'     5'      15'     75%      6 stories
units       sq. ft.                                                  or 65'
4 dwelling  14,000  100'    25'     25'     5'      15'     75%      6 stories
units       sq. ft.                                                  or 65'
 
Notes:
    1.    For each additional dwelling unit over 4 dwelling units add at least
1,000 square feet to minimum lot area.
    2.    In the R-4 district, no building shall exceed 6 stories or 65 feet in
building height; except, that 1 foot of height may be added to the building for
each foot that the building is set back from the required front yard.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2476, 6-2-2014)
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Accessory buildings cannot exceed twenty two feet (22') in building
height.
      2.   Accessory buildings in the R-4 district shall not exceed two
thousand (2,000) square feet per dwelling unit and the principal and accessory
buildings shall not exceed the maximum zoning lot coverage.
      3.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard and no separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet (3')
of any principal building's line.
      4.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots with the footage to be measured from the overhang
building line. On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements
on the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel
to the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than
sixteen feet (16'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE F. R-5 SINGLE-FAMILY AND MANUFACTURED HOUSING RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5F-1: Intent
10-5F-2: Permitted Uses
10-5F-3: Conditional Uses
10-5F-4: Accessory Uses
10-5F-5: Use Standards; Manufactured Housing
10-5F-6: Density, Area, And Height Regulations
10-5F-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this district is to provide for areas primarily for single-
family dwellings and manufactured housing and supportive facilities. Acceptable
similarity appearance standards will ensure compatibility with surrounding
uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5F-2: PERMITTED USES:
Electric vehicle charging stations (restricted and rapid charging) and provided
the stations only serve the occupants of residential properties.
Open space.
Parks and playgrounds.
Single-family dwellings.
Single-family manufactured housing. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2454, 11-
4-2013)
10-5F-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Adjustment training center facility.
Childcare centers, preschools, nurseries.
Community garden.
Community residence up to twelve (12) units.
Congregate care housing.
Educational institution.
Family residential daycare.
Hospice residential facility.
Multi-family dwelling twelve (12) units or less.
Parking facilities.
Religious institution.
Residential care facility up to twelve (12) units.
Supportive living home up to twelve (12) units. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5F-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory buildings and uses for approved conditional uses.
Home occupations, unless the criteria set forth in section
10-5G-2 of this chapter is not met. Note subsection
10-5G-3A of this chapter.
Residential accessory buildings/uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5F-5: USE STANDARDS; MANUFACTURED HOUSING:
   A.   Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum width of twenty four feet (24')
at the narrowest point of its first story.
   B.   Each dwelling unit shall have been constructed after June 15, 1976.
   C.   Each dwelling unit shall have a continuous and complete frost protected
perimeter foundation.
   D.   Each dwelling unit or garage shall have an exterior wall covering of
siding material customarily used on site constructed residential property.
   E.   Each dwelling unit or garage shall have a roof structure with a minimum
slope corresponding to two inches (2") of vertical rise for each twelve inches
(12") of horizontal run. Roofing material shall be the type customarily used on
site constructed residential property.
   F.   The hitch, axles and wheels shall be removed when the dwelling unit is
installed on a residential lot. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5F-6: DENSITY, AREA, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Single-                                              Minimum
Family And   Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Side    Maximum
Manufactured Lot     Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Yard    Zoning   Maximum
Housing      Area    Width   Yard    Yard    Yard    Corner  Lot      Height
Residential                                          Lot     Coverage
R-5
1 dwelling   10,000  80'     25'     25'     3'      15'     60%         21/2 stories or
unit         sq. ft.                                                  35'
 
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Accessory buildings in the R-5 districts shall not exceed two
thousand (2,000) square feet and the principal and accessory buildings do not
exceed the maximum zoning lot coverage.
      2.   No accessory building shall exceed twenty two feet (22') in height.
      3.   No separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet
(3') of any principal building's line.
      4.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard.
      5.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots with the footage to be measured from the overhang
building line. On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements
on the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel
to the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than
sixteen feet (16'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE G. HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
10-5G-1: Purpose
10-5G-2: Criteria And Standards
10-5G-3: Home Occupation Permits
10-5G-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Protect residential areas from the adverse impact of excessive traffic,
nuisance, noise and other possible effects of commercial activities within
residential neighborhoods.
   B.   Establish criteria and development standards for home occupations
conducted in dwelling units.
   C.   Provide residents the option to use their residences for certain home
occupations without altering the residential character of the neighborhood.
   D.   Assure that public and private services, such as streets, water and
sewer systems, fire protection and other public services, are maintained as
designed for residential areas.
   E.   Home occupations are not transferable to subsequent property owners or
occupants.
   F.   Home occupations involve products sold or repaired in the residential
property and clients or customers retrieve the products on site or services are
performed in the residential property.
   G.   Home occupations involving alcohol sales shall not be permitted.
   H.   To ensure the residential neighborhoods and their occupants' concerns
are properly considered. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5G-2: CRITERIA AND STANDARDS:
All home occupations shall meet the following criteria and standards:
   A.   The use or occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling
unit and shall be conducted entirely by the residents of the dwelling unit. No
home occupation activity may be conducted in an accessory building.
   B.   The area set aside for a home occupation shall not exceed twenty
percent (20%) of the total floor area of the residence. The permissible floor
area includes that space necessary for storage of goods or products associated
with the home occupation.
   C.   Merchandise offered for sale shall be clearly incidental to the home
occupation; provided, however, that orders may be taken for later delivery off
the premises.
   D.   Delivery of products to the home for business purposes shall not occur
more frequently than twice a week. Delivery by trucks or vehicles not
ordinarily utilized for residential deliveries shall be prohibited.
   E.   No toxic, explosive, flammable, combustible, corrosive, etiological,
radioactive or other restricted material that is to be used for the home
occupation shall be stored on site.
   F.   No mechanical equipment other than that ordinarily utilized within a
dwelling unit for household or hobby purposes shall be permissible.
   G.   No activity shall be conducted which would interfere with radio or
television transmission or reception in the area, nor shall there be any
offensive noise, smoke, dust or heat noticeable beyond the premises.
   H.   No home occupation shall require internal or external alteration of the
residence or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation.
   I.   The operation of the home occupation shall not cause or encourage
excess vehicular or pedestrian traffic not ordinarily associated with the
residential area in which the home occupation is conducted, except under the
following conditions:
      1.   Public access to the home occupation shall be by invitation only and
there shall ordinarily be no more than one vehicle not owned by the occupants
on or adjacent to the property for business purposes, except that appointments
may overlap for a time period not exceeding thirty (30) minutes;
      2.   The business will generate no more than four (4) visits per day from
clients or customers.
   J.   On premises advertising shall be limited to one sign not exceeding one
square foot which shall be attached to the dwelling.
   K.   If the home occupation is the type in which classes are held or
instructions given, there shall be no more than four (4) students on the
premises at any one time.
   L.   Operation of a home occupation shall be restricted to the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-5G-3: HOME OCCUPATION PERMITS:
   A.   Application: If the applicant meets all the conditions hereinabove set
forth, the appropriate public official, as designated by the director of public
works, shall issue the home occupation permit. All other applicants who do not
meet the criteria above set forth shall be required to make the appropriate
application for a conditional use permit under the provisions of this title.
The city planning commission shall review applications that do not meet the
conditions set forth and the city board of adjustment may approve applications
for those asking for exceptions to the conditions set forth. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-
2012; amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
   B.   Fee: The fee for the permit shall be set by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
   C.   Residential Associations: Nothing in this section shall prevent a
condominium association board of directors, a cooperative association board of
directors or a landlord from adopting a rule, declaration or bylaw prohibiting
home occupations on the premises, under which circumstances such rule shall
supersede this section.
   D.   Stricter Requirements Prevail: Nothing in this section shall preclude,
invalidate or override any existing covenant, bylaw or rule of a condominium
association, common interest community, housing cooperative or landlord which
prohibits, restricts or regulates home occupations in a stricter manner than
this section. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Conditions Of Use
10-6-1: CONDITIONS OF USE:
   A.   In order to provide an aesthetically pleasing atmosphere abutting the
major streets and highways of the city and to protect property values in this
zone, all permitted, conditional and accessory uses in the neighborhood
shopping district (NS), central business district (CB), and highway oriented
business district (HB) zone shall be subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Prior to issuance of a commercial (nonresidential) building permit,
the owner shall submit to the building official a drawing or drawings showing
the exterior views of the building, its position upon the property, location
and sizes of parking areas, plans for ingress and egress from the property onto
the street, proposed elevations and drainage plans for the building and
property and proposed landscaping. The applicant's plans shall demonstrate
compatibility with the existing structures and applicable design standards.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
      2.   The building official shall transmit these plans and drawings to the
planning commission. The planning commission shall review and approve or
disapprove the proposed plan. If disapproved, the planning commission shall
inform the owner or applicant of the revisions necessary for approval. The
owner or applicant may resubmit the plan for review upon making the required
changes, and the planning commission shall then review and approve or
disapprove the revised plan at its next meeting. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd.
Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
      3.   Upon approval of the proposed plans, the building permit may be
issued, and the owner shall construct and improve the property in accordance
with the approved plans. Any changes which the owner desires to make after
initial approval shall be submitted to the commission for its review and shall
be subject to approval by the commission. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
      4.   For the purpose of this section, upon the delivery to the planning
commission of the documents required by subsection A1 of this section, the
planning commission shall set a meeting to review the documents within five (5)
business days. A quorum is needed for the review of these documents. Of those
who attend, a simple majority may approve or disapprove the plans or make
recommendations for change. Any additional hearings required for further review
shall be scheduled within five (5) business days, unless the time frame is
waived by the applicant. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
ARTICLE A. NS NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Intent
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Conditional Uses
10-6A-4: Accessory Uses
10-6A-5: Density, Area And Height Regulations
10-6A-1: INTENT:
To establish areas or business facilities that transition with close proximity
to residential areas, while minimizing any undesirable impact of such uses in
the neighborhood which they serve. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Alcohol sales, off-sale.
Assembly hall.
Assisted living.
Bakery.
Bed and breakfast.
Boarding house.
Boarding school.
Business service.
Childcare, preschool, nursery.
Coffeehouse.
Community garden.
Community residence.
Congregate care.
Convenience store.
Educational institution.
Electric vehicle charging stations (restricted, public and rapid charging).
Financial institutions.
Funeral home, mortuary.
Grocery store.
Historic site.
Hospice residential facility.
Lodging house.
Manufactured home community.
Multi-family dwellings.
Nursing home.
Office professional building.
Open space.
Parking facility.
Parks and playgrounds.
Personal health services.
Personal service facility.
Private club.
Public service.
Recreational indoor facility.
Religious institution.
Residential care.
Retail services and trade (footprint of principal structure 5,000 square feet
or less).
Roadside stand.
Student housing (off campus).
Supportive living.
Temporary or emergency shelter. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2454, 11-4-
2013; Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Automotive detailing shop.
Automotive repair.
Car wash, self-service.
Fuel dispensing station.
Fuel service station.
Outside storage.
Self-service storage facility if located along a collector or arterial public
right of way. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
10-6A-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory buildings/uses.
Residential dwelling if accessory to the commercial activity and the residence
of the proprietor. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-6A-5: DENSITY, AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
                                                      Minimum Maximum
Neighborhood Minimum  Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Side    Zoning    Maximum
Shopping     Lot Area Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Yard    Lot       Height
District NS           Width   Yard    Yard    Yard    Corner  Coverage1
                                                      Lot
                                                                        21/
             6,000    60'     30'     20'     3'      20'     70%       2
             sq. ft.                                                    stories
                                                                        or 35'
 
Note:
   1.    Structures may cover all of the zoning lot, except for required yards
and parking and loading spaces and applicable landscaping requirements set
forth in this code.
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard and no separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet (3')
of any principal building's line.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots, footage to be measured from the overhang building
line.
      3.   On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements on
the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel to
the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than sixteen
feet (16'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE B. HB HIGHWAY ORIENTED BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Intent
10-6B-2: Permitted Uses
10-6B-3: Conditional Uses
10-6B-4: Accessory Uses
10-6B-5: Density, Area And Height Regulations
10-6B-1: INTENT:
This district is intended to provide locations of controlled and related
highway access with a wide variety of retail, service, professional and
commercial uses that may require large land areas, extensive retail operations,
and outdoor display of merchandise. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-6B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Agricultural sales and service.
Alcohol sales (on- and off-sale).
Assembling and packaging.
Assembly halls.
Automotive dealerships, sales.
Automotive detailing shop.
Automotive parts/supply retail.
Automotive repairs, service and leasing.
Bakery.
Beverage bottling.
Boat sales.
Bowling alleys.
Brewpub (microbrewery).
Business services.
Campgrounds.
Car wash, industrial and self-service.
Childcare, preschool, nursery.
Coffeehouse.
Community center.
Contractor's storage yard.
Convenience store.
Custom manufacturing.
Educational institution.
Electric vehicle charging stations (restricted, public and rapid charging).
Financial institutions.
Fireworks sales (only outside the city limits).
Fuel dispensing station.
Fuel service station.
Funeral parlor, mortuary.
Garden center.
Greenhouse/nursery.
Grocery store (market).
Historic site.
Hospital.
Indoor crop production.
Indoor recreation facility.
Laboratories; research and support.
Landscaping business.
Locker/butcher.
Lumberyard.
Off premises sign, limited in total sign area of three hundred (300) square
feet per side and of which only two (2) sides shall be used for advertising
purpose.
Open space.
Outdoor recreation facility.
Outdoor sales.
Outside storage.
Park and playground.
Parking facilities.
Personal health facility.
Personal service establishments.
Printing plants.
Printing shops.
Private club.
Processing, light.
Professional and/or office buildings.
Public service facility.
Racetrack.
Radio and television studio.
Religious institution.
Retail sales and trade.
Retail warehouse.
Roadside stand.
Service centers.
Shopping centers.
Sign store.
Storage garage.
Theater.
Truck stop.
Wholesale merchandising and wholesale retail. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord.
2454, 11-4-2013; Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015; Ord. O2022-17, 11-14-2022)
10-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Agricultural equipment and supplies establishments.
Animal boarding.
Animal hospital (animal clinic).
Animal shelter.
Crematorium.
Fabrication.
Large wind energy system.
Light manufacturing if related to commercial use or product provided within the
HB district.
Multi-family dwellings.
Off premises signs over three hundred (300) square feet to a maximum of six
hundred (600) square feet.
Self-service storage facility buildings with varying compartment sizes, fifty
(50) to four hundred (400) square feet, for household and commercial storage.
Telecommunications towers.
Truck terminal.
Utility station. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-6B-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory buildings/uses.
Residential dwelling if accessory to the commercial activity and the residence
of the proprietor. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-6B-5: DENSITY, AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Highway                                           Minimum   Maximum
Oriented Minimum  Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Side Yard Zoning    Maximum
Business Lot Area Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Corner    Lot       Height
District          Width   Yard    Yard    Yard    Lot       Coverage1
HB
         6,000    60'     30'     0'      0'      0'        0%        4 stories
         sq. ft.                                                      or 65'
 
Note:
   1.    Structures may cover all of the zoning lot, except for required yards
and parking and loading spaces and applicable landscaping requirements set
forth in this code.
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard and no separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet (3')
of any principal building's line.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots, footage to be measured from the overhang building
line.
      3.   On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements on
the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel to
the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than sixteen
feet (16'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE C. CB CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Intent
10-6C-2: Permitted Uses
10-6C-3: Conditional Uses
10-6C-4: Accessory Uses
10-6C-5: Density, Area, And Height Regulations
10-6C-1: INTENT:
This district is intended to support a cohesive commercial center with a high
priority on retail trade, personal service, institutional, governmental, and
entertainment uses. Integrating new uses with existing businesses is
encouraged. The historic district is with a portion of this district; therefore
consideration of historic compatibility is encouraged. Outside storage is
discouraged. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Alcohol sales (on- and off-sale).
Assembling and packaging.
Assembly hall.
Assisted living.
Auto parts sales.
Bakery.
Boarding house.
Bowling alley.
Brewpub (microbrewery).
Business services.
Childcare, preschool, nursery.
Coffeehouse.
Community center.
Convenience store.
Custom manufacturing (if in conjunction to a retail use).
Educational institutions.
Electric vehicle charging stations (restricted, public and rapid charging).
Financial institutions.
Funeral home and mortuary.
Grocery store.
Historic site.
Hospice residential care.
Hotel.
Laboratories research and support.
Locker/butcher.
Lodging house.
Open space.
Parking facilities.
Parks and playgrounds.
Personal health services.
Personal services.
Preschool, nursery school/childcare.
Printing plant.
Printing shop.
Private club.
Professional offices.
Public service facility.
Radio and television stations.
Recreation indoor facility.
Religious institutions.
Residential care.
Retail services and trade.
Roadside stand.
Service center, with the exception of small engine and motorized vehicle
repair.
Shopping center.
Single-family or multi-family dwellings; only when constructed or occupied
above the ground floor and within the same building as the other principal use
or parcel.
Substance abuse facility.
Supportive living.
Telecommunication towers not exceeding one hundred fifteen feet (115') in
height.
Theater.
Utility station. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2454, 11-4-2013; Ord. 2512,
4-6-2015)
10-6C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Animal hospital.
Automotive detailing shop.
Automotive repair.
Automotive sales.
Boarding school.
Car wash, self-service.
Fuel dispensing stations.
Fuel service stations.
Indoor crop production.
Light manufacturing of products to be sold at retail on the same premises. The
retail space must be accessible from the street.
Outdoor sales.
Outside storage.
Self-service storage units.
Service centers for small engine or motorized engine repair.
Storage garage.
Student housing off campus.
Wholesale merchandising and wholesale trade and retail. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012;
amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015; Ord. O2022-17, 11-14-2022)
10-6C-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory buildings/uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-6C-5: DENSITY, AREA, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Central           Minimum Minimum Minimum           Minimum   Maximum
Business Minimum  Lot     Front   Rear    Minimum   Side Yard Zoning    Maximum
District Lot Area Width   Yard    Yard    Side Yard Corner    Lot       Height
CB                                                  Lot       Coverage1
         0 sq.    0'      0'      0'      0'        0'        0%        80'
         ft.
 
Note:
   1.    Structures may cover all of the zoning lot, except for required yards
and parking and loading spaces and applicable landscaping requirements set
forth in this code.
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard and no separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet (3')
of any principal building's line.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots, footage to be measured from the overhang building
line.
      3.   On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements on
the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel to
the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than sixteen
feet (16'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 7
INDUSTRY AND TRANSPORTATION, WAREHOUSING, COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. TWC TRANSPORTATION, WAREHOUSING AND COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Intent
10-7A-2: Permitted Uses
10-7A-3: Conditional Uses
10-7A-4: Accessory Uses
10-7A-5: Density, Area, And Height Regulations
10-7A-1: INTENT:
This district is intended to provide for light manufacturing, light processing,
warehousing and service uses. This district includes supportive commercial uses
for industrial uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Agricultural equipment sales.
Agricultural sales and service.
Alcohol sales (on- and off-sale).
Animal boarding.
Animal hospital, clinic.
Animal shelter.
Assembling and packaging.
Assembly hall.
Automotive, dealership and trailer, sales, repair and rental.
Automotive detailing shop.
Automotive parts sales.
Automotive storage.
Bakeries.
Beverage bottling plant.
Boat sales.
Bowling alley.
Brewpub (microbrewery).
Business services.
Campground.
Car wash, industrial and self-service.
Coffeehouse.
Community center.
Concrete manufacturing and processing.
Contractor's shop and storage area.
Convenience stores.
Custom manufacturing.
Electric vehicle charging stations (restricted, public and rapid charging).
Fabrication activities.
Financial institutions.
Fireworks sales, only sold outside the city limits.
Fuel dispensing station.
Fuel service station.
Funeral home and mortuary.
Garden center/nursery/greenhouse.
Grocery store (market).
Historic site.
Indoor crop production.
Laboratories (research and support).
Landscape business.
Light manufacturing.
Locker/butchering.
Lumberyard.
Off premises signs not over three hundred (300) square feet.
Office, professional.
Open space.
Outdoor sales.
Outside commercial storage.
Outside storage.
Parking facilities.
Parks and playgrounds.
Personal health services.
Personal services.
Printing plants.
Printing shops.
Processing, light.
Public service facility.
Racetrack.
Radio and television stations.
Radio or television transmission, relay, telecommunication, and other
commercially used towers, one hundred feet (100') or less in tower height.
Rail terminal stations and activities.
Recreation, indoor and outdoor facility.
Recycling center.
Religious institutions.
Retail sales and trade.
Retail warehouse.
Roadside stand.
Rodeo grounds.
Self-service storage facilities.
Service center.
Shopping center.
Sign store.
Storage garage.
Theater.
Truck stop.
Truck terminal.
Utility stations.
Veterinarian.
Wholesale merchandising, trade, retail. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2454,
11-4-2013; Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015; Ord. O2022-17, 11-14-2022)
10-7A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Agricultural product processing.
Batching plant.
Childcare/preschool.
Crematorium.
Dwellings necessarily accessory to permitted uses.
Grain terminal (elevator).
Large wind energy systems.
Livestock market (auction/sale barn).
Medium manufacturing.
Off premises signs over three hundred (300) square feet to a maximum of six
hundred (600) square feet of sign area.
Processing facility.
Radio or television transmission, relay, telecommunication, and other
commercially used towers, which are more than one hundred feet (100') in tower
height.
Refining or wholesale storage of petroleum products. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012;
amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
10-7A-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory buildings/uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-7A-5: DENSITY, AREA, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Transportation,                                         Minimum Maximum
Warehousing     Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Side    Zoning    Maximum
And Commercial  Lot     Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Yard    Lot       Height2
District TWC    Area    Width   Yard    Yard    Yard    Corner  Coverage1
                                                        Lot
                0 sq.   0'      35'     0'      0'      0'      0%        80'
                ft.
 
Notes:
    1.    Structures may cover all of the zoning lot, except for required yards
and parking and loading spaces and applicable landscaping requirements set
forth in this code.
    2.    Telecommunication towers 100 feet in tower height or under are
permitted. Telecommunication towers over 100 feet require a conditional use
permit.
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard and no separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet (3')
of any principal building's line.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots, footage to be measured from the overhang building
line.
      3.   On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements on
the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel to
the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than sixteen
feet (16'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE B. I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Intent
10-7B-2: Permitted Uses
10-7B-3: Prohibited Uses
10-7B-4: Conditional Uses
10-7B-5: Accessory Uses
10-7B-6: Density, Area And Height Regulations
10-7B-1: INTENT:
This district is intended to provide for heavier industrial uses that may
create a degree of nuisance which may not be compatible with residential, light
commercial, and other nonindustrial uses. All uses in this district shall
comply with federal, state and local regulations regarding noises, emissions,
dust, odor, glare, vibration or heat when applicable. Uses with a higher
potential of nuisance issues will require additional review by the governing
authority. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
All lawful uses are permitted in this district except the following prohibited
and conditional uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-7B-3: PROHIBITED USES:
All types of residential structures.
Educational institutions.
Public parks and playgrounds.
Religious institutions. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-7B-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Agricultural processing facilities.
Crematorium.
Distillation facilities.
Extraction of minerals.
Grain terminal.
Heavy manufacturing.
Junkyards or auto wrecking yards.
Large wind energy conversion systems.
Livestock auction (sales barns).
Manufacturing of explosives, glue, acid, fertilizer, rubber, chemicals.
Off premises signs over three hundred (300) square feet to a maximum of six
hundred (600) square feet of sign area.
Quarry.
Refining.
Rendering operations.
Sanitary landfill.
Sewage treatment.
Smelting. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-7B-5: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory buildings/uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-7B-6: DENSITY, AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
                    Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum   Maximum
Industrial Minimum  Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Side Yard Zoning    Maximum
District I Lot Area Width   Yard    Yard    Yard    Corner    Lot       Height2
                                                    Lot       Coverage1
           9 sq.    0'      40'     0'      0'      0'        0%        0'
           ft.
 
Notes:
    1.    Structures may cover all of the zoning lot, except for required yards
and parking and loading spaces and applicable landscaping requirements set
forth in this code.
    2.    In the I district, there are no limitations; except, that within 100
feet of a residential district, no building shall be higher than 65 feet.
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard and no separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet (3')
of any principal building's line.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots, footage to be measured from the overhang building
line.
      3.   On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements on
the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel to
the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than sixteen
feet (16'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 8
OTHER DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. PL PUBLIC LANDS AND INSTITUTIONS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8A-1: Intent
10-8A-2: Permitted Uses
10-8A-3: Conditional Uses
10-8A-4: Accessory Uses
10-8A-5: Density, Area, And Height Regulations
10-8A-1: INTENT:
This district is intended to provide for land uses for governmental,
educational, medical, recreational, religious and cultural services. The
property will primarily be owned and maintained by government entities,
educational institutions, and religious, parochial, benevolent, charitable, and
other nonprofit organizations. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-8A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Adjustment training centers.
Airport.
Alcohol sales (on- and off-sale).
Assembly halls (publicly owned).
Boarding house.
Boarding schools.
Campgrounds.
Cemetery.
Childcare, preschool.
Coffeehouse.
Community centers.
Community garden.
Community residence.
Community theater.
Congregate housing.
Detention facilities.
Educational institutions.
Electric vehicle charging stations (restricted, public and rapid charging).
Golf course.
Hangar.
Heliport.
Historic sites.
Hospice residential facility.
Hospitals.
Indoor recreation facilities.
Open space.
Outdoor recreation facilities.
Parking facilities.
Parks, playgrounds.
Personal health services.
Public service facility.
Religious institutions.
Retail services and trade.
Riding stable.
Roadside stand.
Student housing (off campus).
Substance abuse treatment facility.
Supportive living.
Telecommunications one hundred feet (100') or under in height.
Temporary emergency shelter.
Theater.
Utility station. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2454, 11-4-2013; Ord. 2512,
4-6-2015; Ord. 2527, 1-4-2016)
10-8A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Assembling and packaging.
Large wind conversion systems.
Racetrack.
Rodeo grounds.
Sanitary landfills.
Sewage treatment.
Shooting range.
Single-family dwellings if not accessory to the permitted uses.
Telecommunication towers over one hundred feet (100') in height. (Ord. 2408,
10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
10-8A-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory residential dwellings/uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-8A-5: DENSITY, AREA, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
Public Lands                                          Minimum Maximum
And          Minimum  Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Side    Zoning    Maximum
Institutions Lot Area Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Yard    Lot       Height2
District PL           Width   Yard    Yard    Yard    Corner  Coverage1
                                                      Lot
             10,000   100'    30'     35'     3'      20'     50%       0'
             sq. ft.
 
Notes:
    1.    Structures shall comply with required yards, parking and loading
spaces and applicable landscaping requirements set forth in this code.
    2.    In the PL district, there are no limitations; except, that within 100
feet of a residential district, no building shall be higher than 65 feet.
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard and no separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet (3')
of any principal building's line.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots, footage to be measured from the overhang building
line.
      3.   On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements on
the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel to
the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than sixteen
feet (16'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE B. CN CONSERVATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8B-1: Intent
10-8B-2: Permitted Uses
10-8B-3: Conditional Uses
10-8B-4: Accessory Uses
10-8B-5: Density, Area, And Height Regulations
10-8B-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this district is providing for limited uses and activities
primarily used on unimproved real property and buildings. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-
2012)
10-8B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Game farm.
Horticulture.
Outdoor recreational facilities.
Public and private parks.
Roadside stands.
Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-8B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Agricultural activity.
Golf courses, country clubs, golf clubhouses.
Indoor recreation facilities.
Utility stations. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-8B-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory buildings/uses to the permitted uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-8B-5: DENSITY, AREA, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   The maximum zoning lot coverage is ten percent (10%).
   B.   There are no limitations; except, that within one hundred feet (100')
of a residential district, no building shall be higher than sixty five feet
(65'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE C. UD URBAN DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8C-1: Intent
10-8C-2: Permitted Uses
10-8C-3: Conditional Uses
10-8C-4: Accessory Uses
10-8C-5: Density, Area And Height Regulations
10-8C-1: INTENT:
The intent of this district is providing for land located on the periphery of
the city's urban area. The goal is to provide a compatible transition from
agricultural activities to residential and commercial development, while
maintaining the rural character of the land. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-8C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Agricultural activity.
Airport.
Cemetery.
Farm (hobby).
Farm occupation.
Farm unit.
Farmstead.
Fireworks sales if outside the city limits.
Game farm.
Hangar.
Heliport.
Historic sites.
Horticulture.
Parks and playgrounds.
Roadside stand.
Single-family residential if included within a platted subdivision.
Utility station. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-8C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Agricultural product processing facility.
Alcohol sales (on- and off-sale).
Amphitheaters, stadia, drive-in theaters, arenas and field houses.
Animal shelter and clinics and boarding.
Assembly hall.
Automotive sales, repair, parts, detailing.
Bed and breakfast.
Campgrounds.
Childcare, preschool.
Educational institutions.
Exploration of minerals.
Extraction of minerals.
Family residential daycare.
Game lodge.
Home occupations.
Manufactured home communities.
Multi-family dwellings.
Outdoor recreational facilities.
Outside commercial storage.
Outside storage.
Private shooting range.
Quarry.
Religious institutions.
Retail sales and trade.
Riding stable.
Self-service storage facility.
Sewage treatment.
Shooting range.
Single-family dwelling not included within a platted subdivision.
Single-family manufactured housing on parcels owned by the occupant. (Ord.
2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015; Ord. O2018-07, 6-4-2018)
10-8C-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Agricultural accessory buildings.
Residential accessory buildings. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-8C-5: DENSITY, AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
                                                       Minimum Maximum
Urban          Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Side    Zoning   Maximum
Development    Lot     Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Yard    Lot      Height
District UD    Area    Width   Yard    Yard    Yard    Corner  Coverage
                                                       Lot
Within a                                                                21/
platted        10,000  150'    35'     35'     8'      20'     45%      2
subdivision,   sq. ft.                                                  stories
residential                                                             or 35'
Within a                                                                21/
platted        10,000  100'    35'     35'     8'      20'     45%      2
subdivision,   sq. ft.                                                  stories
nonresidential                                                          or 35'
Outside a
platted        1 acre1 100'    50'     35'     8'      20'     45%      0
subdivision,
all uses
 
Note:
   1.    Minimum lot area may reduce to no less than 20,000 square feet if a
public water supply is available.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-9-1: PUD Requirements
10-9-1: PUD REQUIREMENTS:
The provisions of this chapter pertaining to planned unit development are to be
applied in instances where tracts of land of considerable size are developed,
redeveloped or renewed as integrated and harmonious units and where the overall
design of such units is so outstanding as to warrant modification of the
standards contained elsewhere in this title. Regulations pertaining to each
planned unit development (PUD) are contained in the ordinance creating the PUD.
To be eligible under this chapter, a planned unit development must be:
   A.   Composed of such stated uses and in such proportions as are most
appropriate and necessary for the integrated functioning of the planned
development within the city's zoning jurisdiction and its environs; and
   B.   So designed in its space allocation, orientation, texture, materials,
landscaping and other features as to produce an environment of stable and
desirable character, complementing the design and values of the surrounding
neighborhood and showing such unusual merit as to reflect credit upon the
developer and upon the community; and
   C.   The tract must have a minimum of one acre in the case of residential
and five (5) acres in all other cases. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
Adopted planned unit development districts may be identified by legal
descriptions that may have been platted or replatted subsequent to the original
adoption of the districts. The uses listed in the respective districts may not
be specifically defined in section
10-2-2 of this title. Therefore, similar terms listed in section
10-2-2 of this title or commonly used definitions from a standard English
dictionary or other recognized sources may be used to determine the definitions
of uses listed in the district. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
ARTICLE A. MITCHELL TECHNICAL INSTITUTE PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9A-1: Legal Description
10-9A-2: Purpose
10-9A-3: Scope Of Regulations
10-9A-4: Permitted Uses
10-9A-5: Conditional Uses
10-9A-6: Accessory Uses
10-9A-7: Parking Regulations
10-9A-8: Sign Regulations
10-9A-9: Maximum Coverage
10-9A-10: Minimum Yard Requirements
10-9A-1: LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
That part of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) of Section Twenty-Six (26),
Township One Hundred Three (103) North, Range Sixty (60), West of the 5th P.M.,
City of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota, lying east of the Chicago and
Milwaukee Railroad Right-of-Way and south of Interstate 90.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9A-2: PURPOSE:
This area is intended to provide for educational, office and limited commercial
uses, to accommodate postsecondary education and its related growth and the
associated management, marketing, and production of the needs of enterprises in
the planned development district. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9A-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this article or set forth elsewhere in the zoning
code when referred to in this article are the district regulations that shall
govern the Mitchell Technical Institute planned development (PD), planned
development district. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9A-4: PERMITTED USES:
The permitted uses within this planned development district shall be as
follows:
All permitted and conditional uses of public lands and institutions district.
A multiuse, general purpose facility for use for exhibitions, trade fairs, and
expositions.
A retail store(s), eating establishment(s) and healthcare facilities.
Daycare centers and nursery schools.
Educational and training facilities.
General storage and warehousing including outside storage, which is accessory
to permitted use, protected by a tight screening fence of ten feet (10').
Light industrial and assembly plants.
Multi-family dwellings.
Parking lot and ramp.
Private lakes.
Professional or office buildings.
Utility power stations or substations including satellite antennas and towers
not over one hundred feet (100') high. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9A-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Uses not specifically listed above and which are within the scope of the
heretofore stated purpose of this planned development as are necessary for said
purpose shall be conditional uses. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9A-6: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses and buildings permitted are those accessory uses and buildings
customarily incidental to permitted uses and conditional uses in this district
and including elevated and enclosed walkways. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9A-7: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Parking shall be regulated in conformance with this title. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-
2012)
10-9A-8: SIGN REGULATIONS:
Signs shall be regulated in conformance with title 9, chapter 4 of this code.
(Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
10-9A-9: MAXIMUM COVERAGE:
Structures shall be in conformance with percentage of lot coverage of the
public lands and institutions district. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9A-10: MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS:
Front yard, back yard, side yard, and side yard on corner lot setback
requirements shall be in conformance with standards set forth and provided for
in the PL public lands and institutions district. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE B. WOODLAND HEIGHTS PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9B-1: Legal Description
10-9B-2: Purpose
10-9B-3: Scope Of Regulations
10-9B-1: LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
All of Lot Three (3) and Lot Two (2), to Include Tracts One (1), Two (2), Three
(3), and Five (5) of Block One (1) in the said Lot Two (2) but except the West
Forty (40) feet and the North Forty (40) feet of the said Lot Two (2), except
lots Two A (2A), Two B (2B), Two C (2C), Two D, (2D), Two E (2E) and Two F
(2F), of the said Lot Two (2) and except Tracts Four (4), Six (6) and Seven
(7), Block One (1) of the said Lot Two (2), All in Crane's Addition in the
Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) Section Thirty-Four (34), Township One Hundred Three
(103) North Range (60) West, City of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9B-2: PURPOSE:
This area is intended to provide residential opportunities and provide for
densities, which reflect both the cost and best utilization of land. (Ord.
2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9B-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations in this article or set forth elsewhere in the zoning code when
referred to in this article are the district regulations that shall be governed
by the Woodland Heights planned development district.
   A.   Subarea A: Also known as lots 1-6, block 1, Woodland Heights First
Addition, city of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
      1.   Permitted Uses:
   Accessory buildings.
   Two-family dwellings.
      2.   Conditional Uses:
   Home occupations.
      3.   Parking Regulations: Parking shall be regulated in conformance with
this title. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
      4.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations shall be in conformance with
title 9, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
      5.   Maximum Building Height: No principal building shall exceed two and
one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35') in height and no accessory
building shall exceed one story or seventeen feet (17') in height.
      6.   Maximum Coverage: No more than forty five percent (45%) of the lot
area shall be covered by structures.
      7.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall not exceed one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet.
      8.   Minimum Lot Area And Width: The minimum lot area shall be at least
ten thousand (10,000) square feet and minimum lot width of seventy feet (70').
      9.   Minimum Yard Requirements (Setbacks):
         a.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30').
         b.   Back yard: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Side yard: Six feet (6').
         d.   Side yard of corner lot: Fifteen feet (15').
   B.   Subarea B: Also known as Lot 7, Block 1, lots 1-14, block 2, lots 1-14,
block 3, lots 1-10, block 4, lots 2-8, block 5, Woodland Heights First
Addition, city of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
      1.   Permitted Uses:
   Accessory buildings.
   Single-family dwellings.
      2.   Conditional Uses:
   Home occupations.
      3.   Parking Regulations: Parking shall be regulated in conformance with
this title. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
      4.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations shall be in conformance with
title 9, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
      5.   Maximum Building Height: No principal building shall exceed two and
one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35') in height and no accessory
building shall exceed one story or seventeen feet (17') in height.
      6.   Maximum Coverage: No more than forty five percent (45%) of the lot
area shall be covered by structures.
      7.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall not exceed one
thousand fifty (1,050) square feet.
      8.   Minimum Lot Area And Width: The minimum lot area shall be at least
ten thousand (10,000) square feet and minimum lot width of seventy feet (70').
      9.   Minimum Yard Requirements (Setbacks):
         a.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30').
         b.   Back yard: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Side yard: Six feet (6').
         d.   Side yard of corner lot: Fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Subarea C: Also known as lots 1 and 10-12 Block 5, Block 6, Woodland
Heights First Addition, city of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota.
      1.   Permitted Uses:
   Accessory buildings.
   Multi-family dwellings twelve (12) units or less.
   Single-family dwellings.
      2.   Conditional Uses:
   Home occupations.
   Multi-family dwelling twelve (12) units or more.
      3.   Parking Regulations: Parking shall be regulated in conformance with
this title. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
      4.   Sign Regulations: Sign regulations shall be in conformance with
title 9, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
      5.   Maximum Building Height: No principal building shall exceed six (6)
stories or sixty five feet (65') in height and no accessory buildings shall
exceed one story or seventeen feet (17') in height.
      6.   Maximum Coverage: No more than seventy five percent (75%) of the lot
area shall be covered by structures.
      7.   Minimum Lot Area And Width: The minimum lot area shall be at least
ten thousand (10,000) square feet and minimum lot width of seventy feet (70').
      8.   Minimum Yard Requirements (Setbacks):
         a.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30').
         b.   Back yard: Thirty feet (30').
         c.   Side yard: Six feet (6').
         d.   Side yard of corner lot: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-
2012; Ord. O2021-08, 6-7-2021; Ord. O2022-06, 4-18-2022; Ord. O2022-18, 12-5-
2022)
ARTICLE C. CJM SECOND ADDITION PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9C-1: Legal Description
10-9C-2: Purpose
10-9C-3: Scope Of Regulations
10-9C-1: LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
Block 1, Block 2, Block 8 and Block 9 of CJM Second Addition and a portion of
Anthony Avenue and a portion of Livesay Lane, A Subdivision of the NW 1/4 of
Section 32, T 104 N, R 60 W, of the 5th P.M., City of Mitchell, Davison County,
South Dakota.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9C-2: PURPOSE:
This area is intended to provide residential with accessory opportunities and
provide for densities, which reflect both the cost and best utilization of the
real property. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9C-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations in this article or set forth elsewhere in the zoning code when
referred to in this article are the district regulations that shall be governed
by the CJM Second Addition planned development district.
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Accessory buildings.
Single-family dwellings.
Storage building.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Home occupations.
   C.   Maximum Building Height: No principal building shall exceed two and
one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35') in height and no accessory
building shall exceed twenty three feet (23') in height.
   D.   Minimum Lot And Width: The minimum lot area shall be at least twenty
five thousand (25,000) square feet and minimum lot width of one hundred feet
(100').
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements (Setbacks):
      1.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30').
      2.   Back yard: Thirty feet (30').
      3.   Side yard: Eight feet (8').
      4.   Side yard of corner lot: Twenty feet (20').
   F.   Other Regulations:
      1.   Municipal water will be available by developer.
      2.   Municipal sewer services will not be available by the developer.
      3.   Roads/streets will be installed to standards to comply with rural
road classification. The roads/streets will be paved once fifty percent (50%)
of the lots are developed and costs are to be assessed to the property owners.
      4.   Dwelling building permits will not be issued until water utilities,
road/streets, drainage are installed and comply with standards set forth by the
city of Mitchell. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE D. LOT S, MAUI FARMS SECOND ADDITION PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9D-1: Legal Description
10-9D-2: Purpose
10-9D-3: Scope Of Regulations
10-9D-1: LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
Lot S, Maui Farms Second Addition, A Subdivision of the Southeast Quarter (SE
1/4), Section 31, and Previously Platted Lot 4 in the East 1/2 of the West 1/
2 of Section 31, Township 104 North, Range 60 W of the 5th P.M., Portions of
which lie within the city limits of Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota and
Blocks 1 and 2 of Maui Farms Second Addition and a portion of Sam Street, a
subdivision of previously platted lot 4 in the East 1/2 of the West 1/2 of
Section 31, T 104 N, R 60 W of the 5th P.M., Davison County, South Dakota.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012; amd. Ord. O2023-12, 11-20-2023)
10-9D-2: PURPOSE:
This area is intended to provide storage facilities for noncommercial
activities and services. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-9D-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations in this article or set forth elsewhere in the zoning code when
referred to in this article are the district regulations that shall be governed
by the Lot S, Maui Farms Second Addition planned development.
   A.   Permitted Uses: Structures constructed for the sole purpose of storage.
The structures may not be used for retail, wholesale, services and other
commercially related activities. All items to be stored shall be enclosed
within the buildings.
   B.   Prohibited Uses:
Bulk chemical storage, which is determined by the city to be a potential threat
to the drinking water supply (Lake Mitchell).
Bulk fertilizer storage.
Bulk herbicide and pesticide storage.
Facilities that store chemicals in excess of any of the limits established
under section 302, section 304, CAA 112 (r), and section 313 listed in the
latest published edition of the title III (SARA and clean air act amendments)
list of lists (consolidated lists of chemicals) subject to the emergency
planning and community right-to-know act (EPCRA) and section 112 (r) of the
clean air act, as amended.
Fuel storage over one hundred (100) gallons.
Residential structures for human habitation.
Sheltering animals.
   C.   Sign Regulations: There shall be no signs placed on the property or
structure, with the exception of addresses and/or emergency response
identification.
   D.   Minimum Yard Requirements (Setbacks):
      1.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Back yard: Twenty five feet (25').
      3.   Side yard: Five feet (5').
   E.   Maximum Height Requirement: Twenty six feet (26').
   F.   Appearance Standards: The exterior walls and roof shall not have the
appearance of galvanized steel. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE E. SOUTH POINT VILLAGE PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9E-1: Legal Description
10-9E-2: Purpose
10-9E-3: Scope Of Regulations
10-9E-4: Permitted Uses
10-9E-5: Conditional Uses
10-9E-6: Parking Requirements
10-9E-7: Sign Regulations
10-9E-8: Density, Area, And Height Regulations
10-9E-9: Other Regulations
10-9E-1: LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
Tract 1 and Tract 1-A, Less Lots Tract 1-C and Tract 1-D, Tract 1-C; and Tract
1-D, Starlite Estates, Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of the Northwest Quarter (NW
1/4), Section 34, Township 103 North, Range 60 West, City of Mitchell, Davison
County, South Dakota.
(Ord. 2411, 10-15-2012)
10-9E-2: PURPOSE:
This area is to provide single- and multi-family residential opportunities and
provide for a variety of densities and uses compatible with residential
development. (Ord. 2411, 10-15-2012)
10-9E-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations in this article or set forth elsewhere in this title, when
referred to in this article, are the district regulations of the South Point
Village planned development district. (Ord. 2411, 10-15-2012)
10-9E-4: PERMITTED USES:
Assisted living facility up to twenty four (24) units.
Community center, privately owned or operated.
Educational institution.
Lodging house.
Multi-family dwellings
Open space.
Parks and playgrounds.
Recreation indoor facility.
Recreation outdoor facility.
Religious institution.
Single-family dwellings.
Student housing (off campus). (Ord. 2411, 10-15-2012; amd. Ord. O2023-05, 7-17-
2023)
10-9E-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Bed and breakfast.
Childcare center (preschool, nursery).
Community garden.
Convenience store.
Family residential daycare.
Fuel service station.
Home occupations.
Personal health services.
Self-service storage facility. (Ord. 2411, 10-15-2012)
10-9E-6: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Parking shall be regulated in conformance with the provision of this title,
unless otherwise indicated in this article. The total parking required in each
parcel may be provided off site; however, parking dedicated to serve the
residents and visitors to the South Point Village development district must be
within the boundaries of the district.
Parking in the front yard and side yard setbacks along public streets, private
streets and private drives will be permitted.
Parking will be provided for each lot's uses by a combination of garage spaces
for the residential component and on site and off site parking. (Ord. 2411, 10-
15-2012)
10-9E-7: SIGN REGULATIONS:
Signs and the placement thereof shall be in conformance with title 9, chapter 4
of this code. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
10-9E-8: DENSITY, AREA, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
High                                                Minimum Maximum
Density     Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum Side    Zoning   Maximum
Residential Lot     Lot     Front   Rear    Side    Yard    Lot      Height2
R-4         Area1   Width   Yard    Yard    Yard3   Corner  Coverage
                                                    Lot
1 dwelling  6,000   50'     25'     25'     3'      10'     75%      6 stories
unit        sq. ft.                                                  or 65'
2 dwelling  8,000   60'     25'     25'     3'      10'     75%      6 stories
units       sq. ft.                                                  or 65'
3 dwelling  9,000   75'     25'     25'     25'     10'     75%      6 stories
units       sq. ft.                                                  or 65'
4 dwelling  14,000  100'    25'     25'     25'     10'     75%      6 stories
units       sq. ft.                                                  or 65'
 
Notes:
    1.    For each additional unit over 4 units add 800 square feet to the
minimum zoning lot area and 75 feet shall be the minimum lot width.
    2.    In the R-4 district, no building shall exceed 6 stories or 65 feet in
building height; except, that 1 foot of height may be added to the building for
each foot that the building is set back from the required front yard.
    3.    A zero lot line in the event the townhomes are ever subdivided and
sold as condominiums.
   A.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Accessory buildings cannot exceed twenty two feet (22') in building
height.
      2.   Accessory buildings in the planned development district shall not
exceed two thousand (2,000) square feet per dwelling unit and the principal and
accessory buildings shall not exceed the maximum zoning lot coverage.
      3.   An accessory building shall not be permitted in any required front
yard and no separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet (3')
of any principal building's line.
      4.   Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning
lot lines of adjoining lots with the footage to be measured from the overhang
building line. On a corner lot they shall conform to the setback requirements
on the side street, except in the case of an accessory structure door parallel
to the alley, the minimum yard requirement setback shall not be less than
sixteen feet (16'). (Ord. 2411, 10-15-2012)
10-9E-9: OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Residential accessory buildings and uses are permitted.
   B.   Accessory buildings and uses for approved conditional uses are
permitted.
   C.   Development shall coincide with completion of proper municipal street
and utility improvements.
   D.   Private walking trails are permitted.
   E.   Standards that are set forth in the city of Mitchell subdivision
regulations with regards to installation of public improvements within the
public rights of way may be waived upon a written agreement between the
developer and the city council. (Ord. 2411, 10-15-2012)
ARTICLE F. MUELLER LUMBER MORNINGVIEW SUBDIVISION
SECTION:
10-9F-1: Legal Description
10-9F-2: Purpose
10-9F-3: Scope Of Regulations
10-9F-4: Supplemental Regulations
10-9F-1: LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
   A.   The following real property's district classification legally described
by Block 3, except the West 108 feet of the North 150 feet thereof; Lot 4B
except the North 150 feet thereof, Block Four, Morningview Addition, City of
Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota be changed from single-family
residential (R2) district to a planned unit development (PD) known as Mueller
Lumber Morningview Subdivision.
   B.   The following real property's district classification legally described
by Block 5, except Lot H1 thereof, Morningview Addition, City of Mitchell,
Davison County, South Dakota be changed from transportation, warehousing, and
commercial (TWC) district to a planned unit development (PD) known as Mueller
Lumber Morningview Subdivision. (Ord. 2430, 4-1-2013)
10-9F-2: PURPOSE:
This planned development district is intended to provide residential
opportunities and provide for a variety of densities which provide the
efficient and diverse utilization of land. (Ord. 2430, 4-1-2013)
10-9F-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations in this article or set forth elsewhere in this title when
referred to in this article are the district regulations that shall be governed
by the Mueller Lumber Morningview Subdivision.
   A.   Subarea A:
      1.   Permitted Uses:
Open spaces.
Parks and playgrounds.
Single-family dwellings.
Two-family dwellings.
      2.   Conditional Uses:
Family residential care.
Family residential daycare.
Residential care.
      3.   Accessory Uses:
Accessory buildings for permitted and conditional uses.
Home occupations, unless the criteria set forth in section
10-5G-2 of this title is not met. Note also subsection
10-5G-3A of this title.
      4.   Parking Regulations: Parking within the planned development shall
comply with this title.
      5.   Sign Regulations: The placement and installation of signs shall
comply with title 9 of this code.
      6.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   No principal building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories or thirty five feet (35') in height.
         b.   No accessory building shall exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      7.   Maximum Coverage:
         a.   No more than forty five percent (45%) of the zoning lot area
shall be covered with structures.
         b.   No accessory building shall exceed one thousand two hundred fifty
(1,250) square feet in area.
      8.   Minimum Lot Area And Width: The minimum zoning lot area shall be no
less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and a minimum zoning lot width of
eighty five feet (85').
      9.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
         a.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25').
         b.   Back yard: Twenty five feet (25').
         c.   Side yard: Eight feet (8').
         d.   Side yard on a corner: Fifteen feet (15').
   B.   Subarea B:
      1.   Permitted Uses:
Open spaces.
Parks and playgrounds.
Single-family dwellings.
Two-family dwellings.
      2.   Conditional Uses:
Family residential care.
Family residential daycare.
Residential care.
      3.   Accessory Uses:
Accessory buildings for permitted and conditional uses.
Home occupations, unless the criteria set forth in section
10-5G-2 of this title is not met. Note also subsection
10-5G-3A of this title.
      4.   Parking Regulations: Parking within the planned development shall
comply with this title.
      5.   Sign Regulations: The placement and installation of signs shall
comply with title 9 of this code.
      6.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   No principal building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories or thirty five feet (35') in height.
         b.   No accessory building shall exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      7.   Maximum Coverage:
         a.   No more than forty five percent (45%) of the zoning lot area
shall be covered with structures.
         b.   No accessory building shall exceed one thousand two hundred fifty
(1,250) square feet in area.
      8.   Minimum Lot Area And Width: The minimum zoning lot area shall be no
less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and a minimum zoning lot width of
eighty five feet (85').
      9.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
         a.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25').
         b.   Back yard: Twenty five feet (25').
         c.   Side yard: Eight feet (8').
         d.   Side yard on a corner: Fifteen feet (15').
   C.   Subarea C:
      1.   Permitted Uses:
Open spaces.
Parks and playgrounds.
Single-family dwellings.
Two-, three- or four-family dwellings.
      2.   Conditional Uses:
Family residential care.
Family residential daycare.
Five- to twelve-family dwellings.
Residential care.
      3.   Accessory Uses:
Accessory buildings for permitted and conditional uses.
Home occupations, unless the criteria set forth in section
10-5G-2 of this title is not met. Note also subsection
10-5G-3A of this title.
      4.   Parking Regulations: Parking within the planned development shall
comply with this title.
      5.   Sign Regulations: The placement and installation of signs shall
comply with title 9 of this code.
      6.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   No principal building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2)
stories or thirty five feet (35') in height.
         b.   No accessory building shall exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      7.   Maximum Coverage:
         a.   No more than sixty percent (60%) of the zoning lot area shall be
covered with structures.
         b.   No accessory building for single-family residential shall exceed
one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet in area.
         c.   Accessory buildings for two (2) or more family dwelling units
shall not exceed more than four hundred (400) square feet per dwelling unit.
      8.   Minimum Lot Area And Width: The minimum zoning lot area shall be no
less than nine thousand (9,000) square feet and a minimum zoning lot width of
eighty feet (80').
      9.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
         a.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25').
         b.   Back yard: Twenty five feet (25').
         c.   Side yard: Eight feet (8').
         d.   Side yard on a corner: Fifteen feet (15').
   D.   Subarea D:
      1.   Permitted Uses:
Open spaces.
Parks and playgrounds.
Single-family dwellings.
Two-, three- or four-family dwellings.
      2.   Conditional Uses:
Automotive detailing.
Childcare, preschool, nursery.
Coffeehouse.
Convenience store.
Family residential care.
Family residential daycare.
Five- to twelve-family dwellings.
Personal service facility.
Residential care.
Retail services and trade (footprint of principal structures 5,000 square feet
or less).
Structures constructed for the sole purpose of personal or household storage.
         a.   Retail, wholesale or commercial related activities are
prohibited.
         b.   Exterior walls and roofs shall be constructed with materials
typically installed on single- family residential properties.
Student housing (off campus).
Temporary or emergency shelter.
      3.   Accessory Uses:
Accessory buildings for permitted and conditional uses.
Home occupations, unless the criteria set forth in section
10-5G-2 of this title is not met. Note also subsection
10-5G-3A of this title.
      4.   Parking Regulations: Parking within the planned development shall
comply with this title.
      5.   Sign Regulations: The placement and installation of signs shall
comply with title 9 of this code.
      6.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   No principal building shall exceed three (3) stories or forty
five feet (45') in height.
         b.   No accessory building shall exceed twenty feet (20') in height.
      7.   Maximum Coverage:
         a.   No more than sixty percent (60%) of the zoning lot area shall be
covered with structures.
         b.   No accessory building for a single-family residential dwelling
shall exceed one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet in area.
         c.   Accessory buildings for two (2) or more family dwelling units
shall not exceed more than four hundred (400) square feet per dwelling unit.
      8.   Minimum Lot Area And Width: The minimum zoning lot area shall be no
less than nine thousand (9,000) square feet and a minimum zoning lot width of
eighty feet (80').
      9.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
         a.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25').
         b.   Back yard: Twenty five feet (25').
         c.   Side yard: Eight feet (8').
         d.   Side yard on a corner: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 2430, 4-1-2013)
10-9F-4: SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   No structure shall be permitted to be constructed with a post from
method of square or round poles in the ground (commonly known as "pole barns").
   B.   No structure shall be permitted to be finished on the exterior roof or
walls with light gauge metal panels, vertical or horizontal, galvanized or
colored metal.
   C.   All accessory buildings shall have the same exterior finish as the
principal residence. If the principal residence is masonry brick, stone or
stucco, the accessory building may use wood or vinyl siding on the walls in
lieu of masonry brick, stone or stucco. (Ord. 2553, 10-17-2016)
ARTICLE G. CJM SECOND ADDITION PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT NUMBER TWO
SECTION:
10-9G-1: Legal Description
10-9G-2: Purpose
10-9G-3: Scope Of Regulations
10-9G-1: LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
Block 2, Block 3, Block 7, Block 8 and Block 9 of CJM Second Addition, and
portions of Michael Avenue, Livesay Lane and Jamaica Street in the NW 1/4 of
Section 32, T 104 N, R 60 W of the 5th P.M., City of Mitchell, Davison County,
South Dakota.
(Ord. O2017-07, 6-5-2017)
10-9G-2: PURPOSE:
This area is intended to provide residential with accessory opportunities and
provide for densities, which reflect both the cost and best utilization of the
real property located within this district. (Ord. O2017-07, 6-5-2017)
10-9G-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations in this article or set forth elsewhere in this title, when
referred to in this title, are the district regulations of the CJM Second
Addition Planned Development District Number Two.
   A.   Permitted Uses:
Accessory buildings.
Single family dwellings.
Storage buildings.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
Home occupations.
   C.   Maximum Building Height: No principal building shall exceed two and
one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35') in height and no accessory
building shall exceed twenty three feet (23') in height.
   D.   Minimum Lot And Width: The minimum lot area shall be at least twenty
five thousand (25,000) square feet and minimum lot width of one hundred feet
(100').
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements (Setbacks):
      1.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30').
      2.   Back yard: Thirty feet (30').
      3.   Side yard: Eight feet (8').
      4.   Side yard on a corner lot: Twenty feet (20').
      5.   Lot coverage shall be no less than forty five percent (45%).
   F.   Other Regulations:
      1.   Municipal water service will be available by the developer.
      2.   Municipal sewer service will not be available by the developer.
      3.   Roads/streets will be installed to standards to comply with rural
road classification. The roads/streets will be paved once fifty percent (50%)
of the lots are developed and costs are to be assessed to the property owners.
      4.   Building permits will not be issued until water utilities, roads/
streets, drainage are installed to the lot and comply with the standards set
forth by the City of Mitchell.
      5.   No person shall keep any horse, cow, goat or sheep or erect or
maintain any building or enclosure. No person shall allow any ducks, geese,
chickens or other domestic fowl to run at large, nor shall any person keep
enclosed or housed any domestic fowl. (Ord. O2017-07, 6-5-2017)
ARTICLE H. RIDGE VIEW ON FOSTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9H-1: Legal Description
10-9H-2: Purpose
10-9H-3: Scope Of Regulations
10-9H-1: LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
Blocks 1, 2, and 3, Lakeridge Addition, a subdivision of Irregular Tracts Nos.
1 and 2 in the NW1/4 of Section 10, T 103 N, R 60 W of the 5th P.M., City of
Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota. (Ord. O2020-02, 3-16-2020; Ord. O2021-
05, 5-17-2021)
10-9H-2: PURPOSE:
This district is provide primarily single-family residential opportunities and
provide densities, which reflect both cost and best utilization of the land.
(Ord. O2020-02, 3-16-2020; Ord. O2021-05, 5-17-2021)
10-9H-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations in this article or set forth elsewhere in Title 10 of the City
of Mitchell Municipal when referred to in this article are the district
regulations that shall be governed by the Lakeridge Planned Development
District.
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   Single Family Dwellings.
      2.   Designated Open Space.
      3.   Parks and Playground.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Home Occupations that do not comply with section
10-5G-2.
      2.   Childcare, Family residential.
   C.   Accessory Uses:
      1.   Home Occupations that do comply with section
10-5G-2.
      2.   Detached accessory buildings and structures commonly referred to
garages.
   D.   Parking Regulations shall be regulated according to existing code
within Title 10.
   E.   Sign Regulations shall be regulated according to Title 9.
   F.   Maximum Building Height: No principal building shall exceed two and one
half (2 ½) stories or thirty-five feet (35') in height and no detached
accessory building shall exceed twenty-two feet (22') in height.
   G.   Maximum Coverage: No more than forty-five percent (45%) of the zoning
lot shall be covered with structures that have a roof.
   H.   Accessory Buildings: Detached accessory buildings shall not exceed two
thousand (2,000) square feet.
   I.   Minimum Zoning Lot Area and Width: The minimum zoning lot area shall be
at least ten thousand (10,000) square feet and the minimum zoning lot width of
not less than seventy feet (70').
   J.   Minimum Yard Requirements (Setbacks):
      1.   Front Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      2.   Back Yard: Thirty feet (30').
      3.   Side Yard: Six feet (6').
      4.   Side Yard on a corner zoning lot: Fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. O2020-
02, 3-16-2020; Ord. O2021-05, 5-17-2021)
ARTICLE I. SHARPSTONE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9I-1: Legal Description
10-9I-2: Purpose
10-9I-3: Permitted Uses
10-9I-4: Conditional Uses
10-9I-5: Scope Of Regulations
10-9I-6: Accessory Buildings
10-9I-1: LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
Plat of Lot 11 of Sharpstone Subdivision, a subdivision of the W ½ of the S ½
of the SW ¼ of the NW ¼ of Section 9, T 103 N, R 60 W of the 5th P.M., City of
Mitchell, Davison County, South Dakota. (Ord. O2022-14, 9-19-2022)
10-9I-2: PURPOSE:
This area is intended to provide residential with accessory opportunities and
provide for densities, which reflect both the cost and best utilization of the
real property located within this district. (Ord. O2022-14, 9-19-2022)
10-9I-3: PERMITTED USES:
Open space.
Parks and playgrounds.
Single-family dwelling.
Two-family dwellings. (Ord. O2022-14, 9-19-2022)
10-9I-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Childcare, family residential.   
Community Garden.
Home occupations that comply with section 10-5-G-2. (Ord. O2022-14, 9-19-2022)
10-9I-5: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.    Maximum Building Height: No principal building shall exceed two and
one-half (2 ½) stories or thirty-five feet (35').
   B.   Minimum Lot And Width: The minimum lot area shall be at six thousand
square feet (6,000) and minimum lot width shall be at least fifty feet (50').
   C.   Minimum Yard Requirements (Setbacks):
      1.   Front yard: Fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Rear yard: Twenty-five feet (25').
      3.   Side yard: Three feet (3').
      4.   Side yard on a corner lot: Fifteen feet (15').
      5.   Lot coverage shall be no more than seventy-five percent (75%). (Ord.
O2022-14, 9-19-2022)
10-9I-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   No accessory building will be erected in the front yard.
   B.    No accessory building shall exceed twenty-two feet (22') in height.
   C.    No separate accessory building shall be erected within three feet (3')
of any principal building's line.
   D.    Accessory buildings shall be at least three feet (3') from zoning lot
lines of adjoining lots, with the footage to be measured from the overhang
building line.
   E.    Accessory buildings (attached and detached) shall not exceed a
combination of two thousand square feet (2,000) and the principal and accessory
buildings do not exceed the maximum zoning lot coverage. (Ord. O2022-14, 9-19-
2022)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
10-10-1: Restrictions And Exceptions
10-10-2: Continuance Of Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-10-3: Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Use
10-10-4: Repairs And Alterations
10-10-5: Damage And Destruction
10-10-6: Change To Conforming Use
10-10-7: Existing Nonconforming Lots
10-10-1: RESTRICTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: Except as hereinafter provided with respect to
prior lawful uses, variances, and the regulations of this title are minimum
requirements and apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure which
require a building permit or land use in each district.
   B.   Restrictions On Structures: No structure or land shall be used, and no
structure shall be erected, constructed, moved, structurally altered or
otherwise altered beyond ordinary repairs and fixtures, wiring, plumbing and
replacement of nonbearing partitions to an extent exceeding fifty percent (50%)
of the replacement value of the structure in any one year if it does not
increase the cubic size of the structure unless it is in conformity with all of
the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
However, nothing in this title shall be deemed to prevent the restoring of safe
conditions of any structure officially declared to be unsafe by the building
official. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-10-2: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   It is the intent of this title to permit zoning lots, structures and
uses which are lawfully in existence before the effective date hereof and which
do not conform with its regulations to continue until they are no longer so
used but to discourage their survival. Such prior, lawful nonconforming uses
shall not be enlarged, expanded nor used as grounds for permitting any other
nonconforming use.
   B.   A lawful use or structure existing on any effective date hereof which
is hereby made unlawful, may be continued, if it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-10-3: DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
If any such actual use ceases for a period of more than six (6) consecutive
months or for a total of eighteen (18) months during any thirty six (36) month
period, any subsequent use shall conform to district regulations for the
district in which it is located. Use by intention, arrangement or design shall
not constitute continuing use after the actual use ceases for the purpose of
this section. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-10-4: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
   A.   No such use shall be enlarged, increased, extended or moved, in whole
or in part, to occupy any structure or land or part thereof that was not
occupied by such use at any effective date.
   B.   No such structure shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed, except to
be put to a permitted use.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title, the owner of a
single-family residence, where such single-family residence is a prior lawful
use in any zoning district in the city's zoning jurisdiction but is not
currently a permitted use under the present provisions of this title, shall be
permitted to construct a garage and/or accessory building upon the premises of
such single-family residence, and the owner shall also be permitted to remodel
and expand the said single-family residence unit, as described hereinabove,
upon the granting of a variance therefor by the planning commission and by the
board of adjustment.
      1.   Said garage, accessory building and remodeling and expansion shall
be a permitted use under all of the zoning districts provided for in this
title. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-10-5: DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION:
Any structure, other than residential, destroyed or damaged due to involuntary
circumstances to an extent of more than seventy five percent (75%) of its
replacement cost, at the time of destruction or damage, shall not be rebuilt
except in conformance with this title. The reconstruction of any structure used
for a nonconforming use, otherwise prohibited by this section, may be permitted
if a variance is granted prior to reconstruction, in accordance with the
standard procedure relating to variances. In such case, the reconstruction
shall be limited to a structure not larger than the structure destroyed,
determined by the square footage of floor area of a building. Residential
structures may be reconstructed without restriction. Upon approval, the
nonconforming prior lawful use subject to this section shall be deemed a
permitted use, notwithstanding any other provision of this title. (Ord. 2512,
4-6-2015)
10-10-6: CHANGE TO CONFORMING USE:
If, after any effective date, any structure or land or part thereof is occupied
by a permitted use, thereafter the use thereof must conform to this title.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-10-7: EXISTING NONCONFORMING LOTS:
Where an individual lot is held in separate ownership and complies with all
applicable zoning and subdivision requirements, except for the minimum lot size
requirement of the zoning district in which it is located, such lot may be
developed for any permitted uses or conditional uses specified in that zoning
district except for duplex or multi-family development. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
CHAPTER 11
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
ARTICLE A. OFF STREET PARKING
SECTION:
10-11A-1: Intent
10-11A-2: General Requirements And Design Standards
10-11A-3: Schedule Of Off Street Parking Requirements
10-11A-1: INTENT:
This article is intended to reduce the need for parking on the streets and
highways and the traffic congestion and hazards caused thereby and to provide
for off street parking adequate to each type of development in terms of both
amount and location. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-11A-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Accessory off street parking required for the uses specified therein
shall only be for use by automobiles of employees, customers and residents of
the activity served and shall be in addition to provisions for parking for the
public at large.
   B.   Off street parking requirements shall be met on the same zoning lot as
the building served or on a zoning lot within three hundred feet (300') thereof
especially reserved for such uses; except, that off street parking facilities
for separate uses may be provided collectively on a separate lot if the total
spaces are not less than the total requirements of the separate uses and if
other requirements are met.
   C.   An off street parking space shall be at least nine feet (9') in width
and at least twenty feet (20') in length, exclusive of access drive and ramps,
and have a vertical clearance of at least seven feet (7'). (Ord. 2408, 10-1-
2012)
   D.   Off street parking spaces may be located in any required yards except
front yards. Residences may provide a driveway for parking purposes not to
exceed twenty four feet (24') in width in the front yard. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-
2012; amd. Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
   E.   All off street parking spaces and access areas shall be improved and
maintained with an asphaltic or portland cement binder material pavement or
such other surface as may be approved by the director of public works, to
provide a durable and dust free surface and shall be so graded and drained as
to dispose of all surface water accumulation within the area and shall be so
arranged and marked as to provide for orderly and safe parking and storage.
   F.   Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area shall be so
arranged as to reflect light away from adjoining premises in any residential
district or from any public or institutional uses.
   G.   Every off street parking area shall be provided with adequate access of
eight feet (8') if a residence and sixteen feet (16') if a nonresidential use
from a public street or alley.
   H.   All or any part of off street parking requirements may be met within
the building. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
   I.   Installation of electric vehicle parking spaces shall comply with the
design standards in subsections A through H of this section. Such parking
spaces shall comply with the schedule of off street parking requirements as
provided in section
10-11A-3 of this article. Parking spaces utilized for electric charging
stations shall not be included in the number of spaces required in section
10-11A-3 of this article. (Ord. 2454, 11-4-2013)
10-11A-3: SCHEDULE OF OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
The following numbers of off street parking spaces are required in all
districts:
Automobile sales and service garages    1 square foot of parking area for each
                                        2 square feet of gross floor area
                                        1 square foot of parking area for each
Banks and business and professional     4 square feet of floor area or 1 space
offices                                 per 2 employees, whichever provides the
                                        greater number of spaces
Bowling alleys                          5 spaces for each alley
                                        1 space for each 5 seats in a principal
Churches and elementary schools         auditorium, and if there is no
                                        auditorium, 1 space for each classroom
                                        and office room
                                        2 square feet of parking area for each
Dance halls and assembly halls          square foot of floor area used for
                                        dancing in a dance hall and 1 space for
                                        each 4 seats in an assembly hall
                                        1 parking space for each dwelling unit,
Dwellings                               plus 1 additional space for each 2
                                        dwelling units in a building
Funeral homes and mortuaries            1 space for each 5 seats in the
                                        principal auditorium
                                        2 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of
Furniture and appliance stores          ground floor area, plus 1 space for
                                        each 11/2 regular employees
                                        1 space for each full time employee,
High school and vocational high school  plus 1 space for each 5 permanent seats
                                        in classroom
Hospitals, clinics and care             1 space for each 4 beds, plus 1 space
institutions                            for each staff doctor
                                        1 space for each room or suite or each
Hotels, motels and lodging houses       lodging unit plus 1 space for each full
                                        time employee
Manufacturing establishments            1 space for each 2 employees on the
                                        maximum shift
Restaurants, beer taverns and           1 space for each 3 seats
nightclubs
Retail stores and shops (up to 2,000    1 space for each 250 square feet of
square feet of floor area)              floor area
Retail stores and supermarkets (2,000   1 space for each 500 square feet of
square feet of floor area or over)      floor area
Sports arenas, auditoriums, stadiums or 1 parking space for each 4 seats
theaters
Wholesale establishments, warehouses,   1 space for each employee plus 1 space
truck terminals                         for each business vehicle normally
                                        located on site
                                        For any use or building not provided
                                        for above, the off street parking
                                        requirements shall be determined by the
Other uses                              planning commission, using as a guide
                                        aforementioned use and requirements
                                        which must closely resemble the
                                        proposed use
 
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
ARTICLE B. OFF STREET LOADING
SECTION:
10-11B-1: Intent
10-11B-2: General Requirements And Design Standards
10-11B-3: Schedule Of Off Street Loading Requirements
10-11B-1: INTENT:
To avoid the hazards to traffic and to pedestrians and the congestion of
streets, it is required that all new buildings, except dwellings for four (4)
dwelling units or less, be provided with the off street loading berths on the
same zoning lot as the building to be served and that such spaces be adequate
in size and number to provide the service needed without affecting other
adjacent properties. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-11B-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Off street loading berths shall be provided on the same zoning lot as
the use they serve and shall not occupy the front yard.
   B.   No loading berth shall be closer than fifty feet (50') to a residential
lot unless it is enclosed by a tight screening fence or wall or combination
thereof not less than six feet (6') in height.
   C.   Each loading berth shall be provided with access to a public street or
alley in a manner that does not interfere with the traffic movement on the
public way.
   D.   Each required loading berth shall be at least ten feet (10') wide by
twenty five feet (25') long and eighteen feet (18') in height.
   E.   Each required loading berth and its access drive shall be improved and
maintained with a compacted macadam or better surface material and designed to
provide drainage of surface water.
   F.   Spaces provided for off street loading berths shall not be considered
as satisfying requirements for the required off street parking space nor shall
they be used for vehicle repairs or servicing.
   G.   All or any part of off street loading requirements may be met by
loading facilities within buildings. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-11B-3: SCHEDULE OF OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
Off street loading berth requirements shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements that follow. If more than one use is combined in one building, the
total berths required for all such uses shall be provided; the determination of
the number required is to be made by the building official. Where uses are not
specifically mentioned in this section, the building official shall determine
the requirements, using as a guide the most similar use listed:
Use Gross Floor Area      Number Of
    In Building (Sq. Ft.) Berths Required
Use                                 Gross Floor Area            Number Of
                                    In Building (Sq. Ft.)       Berths Required
Auditorium, convention hall, sports 10,000 to 50,000            1
arena, meeting hall                 50,000 to 150,000           2
                                    For each additional 150,000 1
Department store, variety store,    3,000 to 15,000             1
other retail stores, restaurants,   15,000 to 40,000            2
supermarkets                        40,000 to 80,000            3
                                    For each additional 80,000  1
Freight terminal, railroad yard,    3,000 to 10,000             1
truck terminal, wholesale           10,000 to 30,000            2
establishment or warehouse          For each additional 20,000  1
                                    or fraction thereof
Hospital, clinic, jail or welfare   4,000 to 100,000            1
institution                         For each additional 150,000 1
Hotel or office building            4,000 to 20,000             1
                                    For each additional 40,000  1
                                    3,000 to 10,000             1
                                    10,000 to 20,000            2
Manufacturing plant                 20,000 to 40,000            3
                                    For each additional 40,000  1
                                    or fraction thereof
Multiple dwellings over 4 dwelling                             1
units
School                              Over 10,000                 1
 
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 12
ADULT USES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Intent
10-12-2: Definitions
10-12-3: Districts Allowed
10-12-4: Limitations
10-12-1: INTENT:
In order to minimize the detrimental effect adult establishments have on
adjacent land uses, and to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of the city, the city council adopts the following regulations,
recognizing that it has a great interest in the present and future character of
the city's residential and commercial neighborhoods. Adoption of these
regulations is not intended to unreasonably restrict the opportunity of adult
establishments to locate in the city, but is for the purpose of preventing a
concentration of these uses in any one area. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, these terms shall be defined as follows:
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER: An enclosed building or a part of an enclosed
building, wherein an admission is charged for entrance into the facility, or
for food, alcoholic beverages or other beverages intended for consumption
within the facility, wherein may be observed or which contains one or more coin
operated mechanisms which when activated permit a customer to view one or more
live persons unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose to
view any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola, or any
portion of the male or female pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva or
genitals.
ADULTS ONLY BOOKSTORE: An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or viewing on
premises by use of motion picture devices or other coin operated means, and
other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their principal
emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to "nudity", "sexual
conduct", "sexual excitement" or "sadomasochistic abuse", as defined herein, or
an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of
such material, for sale to patrons therein.
ADULTS ONLY MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building used regularly and
routinely for presenting programs, material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "nudity", "sexual
conduct", "sexual excitement" or "sadomasochistic abuse", as defined herein,
for observation by patrons therein.
MINOR: Any natural person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below the
top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
PERSON: One or more natural persons; a partnership, including a limited
partnership; a corporation, including a foreign, domestic, or nonprofit
corporation; a trust; a political subdivision of the state; a limited liability
corporation; professional association; or any other business organization or
entity.
RAP PARLOR: An establishment or place primarily in the business of providing
nonprofessional conversation or similar services for adults.
SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE: Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in
undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
SEXUAL CONDUCT: Acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse, or
physical contact with a person's unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or,
if such person be a female, her breast.
SEXUAL EXCITEMENT: The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-12-3: DISTRICTS ALLOWED:
   A.   None of the foregoing adult businesses or adult establishments as
defined in section
10-12-2 of this chapter shall be owned or operated within the city except
within the following zoned areas: HB highway oriented business district; TWC
transportation, warehousing, and commercial district; and I industrial
district. No adult business or adult establishment shall operate within six
hundred feet (600') (as measured from the closest point of the property lines,
but excluding public rights of way in the computation of the 600 foot distance)
of another adult establishment, residential district, daycare provider, on- or
off-sale liquor establishments, public park, public facility, church or a
school meeting all of the requirements of the compulsory education laws of the
state of South Dakota.
   B.   The six hundred foot (600') restriction provided for may be waived and
a conditional use permit issued upon proper application if the city finds:
      1.   That the proposed use will not be contrary to public interest or
injurious to nearby properties and that the spirit and intent of this chapter
will be observed; and
      2.   That the proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the development
of a "skid row" area; and
      3.   That all applicable ordinances and regulations will be observed.
(Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-12-4: LIMITATIONS:
Any business lawfully in existence and establishments previously approved
before the effective date hereof currently within city limits or subsequently
annexed into the city limits or which is located within that approximate one
mile area outside the city of Mitchell city limits in which Davison County
relinquished its zoning authority pursuant to South Dakota Codified Laws 11-6-
12 to the city of Mitchell, described as follows:
Mitchell Township, 103-60, Sections Three (3), Four (4), Five (5), Six (6),
Eight (8), Nine (9), Ten (10), West Half (W 1/2) of Eleven (11), Fourteen (14),
Fifteen (15), Sixteen (16), Seventeen (17), East Half (E 1/2) of Nineteen (19),
Twenty (20), Twenty-one (21), Twenty-two (22), Twenty-three (23), the West Half
(W 1/2) of Twenty-four (24), Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Twenty-five (25),
Twenty-six (26), Twenty-seven (27), Twenty-eight (28), Twenty-nine (29), East
Half (E 1/2) of Thirty (30), Thirty-two (32), Thirty-three (33), Thirty-four
(34), the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) and West Half (W 1/2) of Thirty-five (35);
and Perry Township, 104-60, Sections Twenty-seven (27), Twenty-eight (28),
Twenty-nine (29), East Half (E 1/2) of Thirty (30), Thirty- one (31), Thirty-
two (32), Thirty-three (33) and Thirty-four (34)
shall not be subject to the provisions of this chapter or this title generally;
any such business shall be allowed to replace, enlarge, expand or transfer such
business. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 13
ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Intent
10-13-2: Definitions
10-13-3: Standards
10-13-4: Freestanding Wind Energy Systems
10-13-5: Roof Mounted WES
10-13-6: General Provisions
10-13-7: Standards And Certification
10-13-8: Solar Energy Systems
10-13-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that the placement, construction and
modification of wind energy systems (WES) facilities is consistent with land
use policies within the zoning jurisdiction of the city of Mitchell, to
minimize the impact of WES facilities, to establish a fair and efficient
process for review and approval of applications, to assure a comprehensive
review of environmental impacts of such facilities, and to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the citizenry. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
FREESTANDING WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (WES): A WES utilizing a turbine attached to a
self-supporting monopole or lattice style tower.
OPERATOR: The person or entity making use of a WES or who is charged with the
responsibility for oversight of the WES.
ROOF MOUNTED: A WES utilizing a turbine mounted to the roof of a structure and
having a maximum rotor diameter of seven feet (7').
ROTOR DIAMETER: The diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor
blades.
SHADOW FLICKER: A pulsating or intermittent light effect when sunlight is
interrupted at regular intervals by the spinning of rotor blade of a wind
turbine.
SYSTEM HEIGHT: The height above grade of the tallest point of the WES,
including the rotor radius.
TOWER HEIGHT: The height above grade of the fixed portion of the tower,
excluding the wind turbine itself.
TURBINE: The parts of the WES including the blades, generator and tail.
UTILITY (ELECTRIC): Any person engaged in the generation, transmission or
distribution of electric energy in this state including, but not limited to, a
private investor owned utility, a cooperatively owned utility, a consumer's
power district and a public or municipal utility.
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM (WES): A system that generates energy through the
utilization of wind for the purpose of converting kinetic energy into
electricity through use of a generator, and can include a nacelle, rotor,
tower, box and/or turbine in any form and through any combination for these
items and accessories thereto:
Large Wind Energy Systems (LWES): All WES facilities excluding SWES.
Small Wind Energy Systems (SWES): WES that produce electricity with a
generating capacity of one hundred (100) kilowatts (kW) or less and less than
seventy five feet (75') in height. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-13-3: STANDARDS:
   A.   Districts: All wind energy systems (WES), in accordance with the
standards contained in this chapter, shall be deemed an accessory use,
permissible in all zoning districts through a conditional use.
   B.   Application For Permit: Building permit applications for a WES shall be
accompanied by:
      1.   A scaled site plan drawing showing features of the property,
including, but not limited to:
         a.   Location and height of the WES;
         b.   Property boundaries and the distance of those boundaries from the
WES;
         c.   Location and dimensions of any easements; and
         d.   Location of overhead utility lines.
      2.   Stamped engineered drawings of any tower, base, footings and/or
foundation as provided by the manufacturer or otherwise.
      3.   Manufacturer's certification or line drawings of the electrical
components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that the
installation conforms to the state electrical code. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-13-4: FREESTANDING WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Design And Placement: All freestanding WES shall:
      1.   Have a maximum system height not to exceed district requirements or
seventy five feet (75') in zoning districts having no height restrictions.
      2.   Have a minimum system height of twenty five feet (25') and no
portion of the WES blade shall extend within twenty feet (20') of the ground.
      3.   Have a maximum power rating of one hundred (100) kW nameplate
generating capacity.
      4.   Have no guyed wires attached to the tower or other components.
      5.   Have no ladder, step bolts, rungs, or other feature used for tower
access to extend within twelve feet (12') of the ground. Lattice style towers
shall have a protective barrier to prevent unauthorized access to the lower
twelve feet (12') of the tower.
      6.   Be located entirely in the rear yard.
   B.   Foundation: For standard soil conditions, foundations or foundation
specifications developed by a WES manufacturer shall be acceptable for
installations of a WES with a generating capacity of twenty (20) kW or less.
All other installations shall require an engineer's stamped site specific soil
study.
   C.   Number: No more than one WES shall be installed on a single lot of five
(5) acres or less. All other parcels will be limited to one WES per five (5)
acres of land area.
   D.   Signs: A WES operator is required to provide a single posting, not to
exceed four (4) square feet, at the base of a WES prohibiting trespassing,
warning of high voltage, and providing the emergency contact information of the
operator. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-13-5: ROOF MOUNTED WES:
   A.   Design And Placement:
      1.   Have a maximum power rating of ten (10) kW nameplate generating
capacity.
      2.   Be limited to the principal building for any parcel unless approved
by the variance.
      3.   Be erected within the confines of the principal building's roof and
no portion of the WES shall extend beyond the edges of the roof.
      4.   Shall not extend to a height that exceeds applicable district
requirements and shall have a system height not to exceed fifteen feet (15').
      5.   Be mounted so that no portion of the WES blade extends within twenty
feet (20') of ground.
   B.   Host Structure: Installation of a roof mounted WES shall be in
conformance with the manufacturer's specifications and applicable building
codes.
   C.   Number: No more than one WES shall be installed on a single rooftop
unless approved by a variance and the host structure lies within a commercial
or industrial zoned district and is being utilized for commercial and
industrial uses.
   D.   Parapet Mount: WES mounted to the top of a parapet shall be allowed as
a conditional use except in residential districts. A parapet mounted WES may
not be mounted on a common wall or party wall. Applications for a parapet
mounted WES which would encroach into or overhang the public right of way must
obtain an easement from the city prior to installation. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-13-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The following provisions will apply to all WES erected under the provisions of
this code:
   A.   Noise: Have a maximum noise production in compliance with section
5-5-5 of this code. This standard shall apply uniformly to individual WES and
to the combined noise production of multiple WES of a single operator.
   B.   Color: Be a neutral tone approved by the board of adjustment and all
surface finishing shall not be nonreflective.
   C.   Over Speed Controls: Shall be equipped with manual and automatic speed
controls to limit blade rotation within design specifications.
   D.   Lighting: Have no installed or accessory lighting, unless required by
the federal or state regulation.
   E.   State, Federal And Local Regulations: In addition to the requirements
listed in this chapter, a WES must:
      1.   Comply with all federal and state regulations.
      2.   Comply with all local regulations and requirements for the
applicable zoning district, including, but not limited to, setback, height,
noise, and nuisance requirements.
   F.   Notification: Prior to installation or erection of a WES, the operator
must provide evidence showing their regular electrical service provider has
been informed of the customer's intent to install an interconnected, customer
owned generator. Off grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
   G.   Setbacks: A WES must have a minimum setback distance of one point one
(1.1) times the system height from any property line, public right of way,
electric substation, transmission line, structure, low voltage and high voltage
electric distribution lines, or other WES facilities.
   H.   Postings: The placement of all other signs, postings, or advertisements
shall be prohibited. This restriction shall not apply to manufacturer
identification, unit model numbers, and similar production labels.
   I.   Commercial: All WES shall be limited to the purpose of on site energy
production, except that any additional energy produced above the total on site
demand may be sold to the operator's regular electrical service provider in
accordance with any agreement provided by the same or applicable legislation.
   J.   Abandonment: A WES that is allowed to remain in a nonfunctional or
inoperative state for a period of six (6) consecutive months, and which is not
brought into operation within the time by city officials, shall be presumed
abandoned and may be declared a public nuisance subject to removal at the
expense of the operator.
   K.   Feeder Lines: Any lines accompanying a WES, other than those contained
within the WES tower or those attached to on site structures by leads, shall be
buried within the interior of the subject parcel. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-13-7: STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATION:
   A.   Standards: WES shall meet minimum standards such as International
Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) or the American Wind Energy Association's
(AWEA) small wind turbine performance and safety standard or other standards
set by local, state and federal officials.
   B.   Certification: WES shall be certified by Underwriters Laboratories,
Inc., and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the Small Wind
Certification Council or other body as determined by the city. The city
reserves the right to deny a building permit for proposed wind energy systems
deemed to have inadequate certification. (Ord. 2408, 10-1-2012)
10-13-8: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
chapter, shall have the meaning provided herein, except where the context
clearly indicates otherwise:
    GROUND MOUNTED PANELS: Freestanding solar panels mounted to the ground by
use of stabilizers or similar apparatus.
   ROOF MOUNTED PANELS: Solar panels that are mounted to the roof of a
structure using brackets, stands or other apparatus.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (SES): A device, the main purpose of which is to
provide for the collection, storage, distribution, conversion or use of solar
energy for generation of electricity or for heating water, and can include a
charge controller, inverter, panels, and batteries in any form and through any
combination of these items.
   B.   Applications:
      1.   Districts:
         a.   Ground mounted SES shall be deemed an accessory structure,
permissible in all zoning districts.
         b.   Roof mounted SES shall be permitted in all zoning districts.
      2.   Application For Permit: A building permit application for an SES
shall be accompanied by:
         a.   A scaled site plan drawing showing features of the property,
including, but not limited to:
            (1)   Location and dimensions of the SES;
            (2)   Property boundaries and the distances of those boundaries;
            (3)   Location and dimensions of any easements; and
            (4)   Location of all overhead and underground utility lines.
         b.   Engineer stamped drawings of the SES component, as provided by
the manufacturer or otherwise.
         c.   Manufacturer's certification or line drawings of the electrical
components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that the
installation conforms to the state electrical code.
      3.   Placement And Design:
         a.   Ground Mounting: All ground mounted panels shall:
            (1)   Be limited to a total system height of ten feet (10').
            (2)   Be limited to the rear yard.
            (3)   Exceed no more than fifteen percent (15%) lot coverage and
may not exceed the area restrictions placed on accessory structures within the
subject district.
            (4)   Be screened from view to the extent possible without reducing
their efficiency. Screening may include walls, fences, or landscaping.
            (5)   Be installed in a manner that will not exacerbate stormwater
runoff that may adversely affect neighboring properties.
         b.   Roof Mounting: All roof mounted panels shall:
            (1)   Comply with the maximum height requirements of the zoning
district.
            (2)   Have a system height not to exceed six feet (6') on a
structure with a flat roof and a system height not to exceed three feet (3') on
a structure with a sloped roof.
            (3)   Not extend beyond the edge of the roof.
            (4)   Not project vertically above the peak of the roof on a
building with a sloped roof.
            (5)   Be mounted with a maximum angle of sixty degrees (60°) from
horizontal on a flat or sloped roof.
            (6)   Be installed only on structures having a roof capable of
supporting the weight of all SES components to be mounted on the roof, plus a
forty (40) pound per square foot snow load.
         c.   Aesthetics: SES panels shall be of neutral color and reflection
angles shall be oriented away from neighboring windows. Where necessary,
screening may be required to address glare.
      4.   General Provisions:
         a.   Additional Requirements: In addition to the requirements listed
in this chapter, an SES must:
            (1)   Comply with all federal and state regulations.
            (2)   Comply with all local regulations and requirements for the
applicable zoning district, including, but not limited to, setback, height, and
nuisance requirements.
         b.   Notification: Prior to the installation or erection of an SES,
the operator must provide evidence showing their regular electrical service
provider has been informed of the customer's intent to install an
interconnected, customer owned SES. Off grid systems shall be exempt from this
requirement.
         c.   Feeder Lines: Any lines accompanying an SES, other than those
attached to on site structures by leads, shall be buried within the interior of
the subject parcel.
         d.   Commercial: All SES shall be limited to the purpose of on site
energy production, except that any additional energy produced above the total
on site demand may be sold to the operator's regular electrical service
provider in accordance with any agreement provided by the same or applicable
legislation.
      5.   Safety Standards And Certification:
         a.   Standards: Solar energy systems shall meet the minimum standards
outlined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), the American
Society Of Heating, Refrigerating, And Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE),
International Organization For Standardization (ISO), Underwriters Laboratories
(UL), the Solar Rating And Certification Corporation (SRCC), or other national
standards as determined by the city.
         b.   Certification: Solar energy systems shall be certified by
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory,
the Solar Rating And Certification Corporation or other body determined by the
city. The city reserves the right to deny installation or building permit for
proposed solar systems deemed to have inadequate certification. (Ord. 2408, 10-
1-2012)
CHAPTER 14
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Outdoor Lighting
10-14-1: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
   A.   Standards For Outdoor Lighting: Community lighting practices should
promote personal safety and crime prevention.
      1.   Eliminate glare onto neighboring property or street right of way.
      2.   Limit light trespass over a property line onto residential property.
      3.   Canopy lights shall contain fully shielded (cutoff) light fixtures
to prevent glare onto adjacent property or street rights of way, except for
focus lighting. (Ord. 2512, 4-6-2015)
CHAPTER 15
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Intent
10-15-2: Definitions
10-15-3: Regulations Relating To Cannabis Cultivation Facilities
10-15-4: Regulations Relating To Cannabis Testing Facilities
10-15-5: Regulations Relating To Cannabis Product Manufacturing Facilities
10-15-6: Regulations Relating To Cannabis Dispensaries
10-15-7: Additional Variance And Conditional Use Factors For Cannabis
Establishments
10-15-8: Prohibited Districts For Cannabis Establishments
10-15-1: INTENT:
In order to minimize the negative effects cannabis establishments have on
adjacent land uses, and to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of the city, the city council adopts the following regulations,
recognizing that it has a great interest in the present and future character of
the city's residential and commercial neighborhoods. Adoption of these
regulations is not intended to unreasonably restrict the opportunity of
cannabis establishments to locate in the city, but is for the purpose of
preventing a concentration of certain cannabis establishments in any one area.
(Ord. O2022-01, 2-14-2022)
10-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless an alternative definition is explicitly stated in this section, this
chapter utilizes the definitions for cannabis related terms which are defined
by SDCL 34-20G-1.
                                     An area characterized by traits such as
                                     dilapidation, overcrowding,
BLIGHTED AREA:                       deterioration, dangerous structures,
                                     unsanitary, inadequate infrastructure,
                                     nuisance, or other factors which inhibit
                                     the growth and development of an area.
                                     All parts of any plant of the genus
                                     cannabis, whether growing or not, in its
                                     natural and unaltered state, except for
                                     drying or curing and crushing or
                                     crumbling. The term includes an altered
                                     state of marijuana absorbed into the
                                     human body. The term does not include
                                     fiber produced from the mature stalks of
                                     such plant, or oil or cake made from the
CANNABIS (or MARIJUANA):             seeds of such plant. The term does not
                                     include the plant Cannabis sativa L. and
                                     any part of that plant, including the
                                     seeds thereof and all derivatives,
                                     extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids,
                                     salts, and salts of isomers, whether
                                     growing or not, with a delta-
                                     9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of
                                     not more than three-tenths of one
                                     percent on a dry weight basis.
                                     A legally licensed entity that acquires,
                                     possesses, cultivates, delivers,
CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY:       transfers, transports, supplies, or
                                     sells cannabis and related supplies to a
                                     cannabis establishment.
                                     A legally licensed entity that acquires,
                                     possesses, stores, delivers, transfers,
CANNABIS DISPENSARY:                 transports, sells, supplies, or
                                     dispenses cannabis, cannabis products,
                                     paraphernalia, or related supplies and
                                     educational materials.
                                     A legally licensed entity that acquires,
CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING       possesses, manufactures, delivers,
FACILITY:                            transfers, transports, supplies, or
                                     sells cannabis products to a cannabis
                                     dispensary.
                                     A legally licensed entity legally
CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY:           authorized to analyze the safety and
                                     potency of cannabis.
                                     A cannabis cultivation facility, a
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT:              cannabis testing facility, a cannabis
                                     product manufacturing facility, or a
                                     cannabis dispensary.
                                     An entity engaged in diagnosing,
                                     treating, caring for, or counseling
MENTAL HEALTH FACILITY:              people requiring mental health services,
                                     including substance abuse disorders, but
                                     which does not regularly provide other
                                     types of personal health services.
                                     An entity which would otherwise meet the
NON-LICENSED CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT: definition of a cannabis establishment
                                     but which is not legally licensed. (Ord.
                                     O2022-01, 2-14-2022)
 
10-15-3: REGULATIONS RELATING TO CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITIES:
No cannabis cultivation facility shall be owned or operated at a location
within the city's zoning jurisdiction except as provided by this section. A
cannabis cultivation facility shall be considered a permitted use in the
following districts: HB highway oriented business district; TWC transportation,
warehousing, and commercial district; and I industrial district. A cannabis
cultivation facility shall be considered a conditional use in the following
districts: CB central business district. (Ord. O2022-01, 2-14-2022)
10-15-4: REGULATIONS RELATING TO CANNABIS TESTING FACILITIES:
No cannabis testing facility shall be owned or operated at a location within
the city's zoning jurisdiction except as provided by this section. A cannabis
testing facility shall be considered a permitted use in the following
districts: HB highway oriented business district; TWC transportation,
warehousing, and commercial district; and I industrial district. A cannabis
testing facility shall be considered a conditional use in the following
districts: CB central business district. (Ord. O2022-01, 2-14-2022)
10-15-5: REGULATIONS RELATING TO CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITIES:
No cannabis product manufacturing facility shall be owned or operated at a
location within the city's zoning jurisdiction except as provided by this
section. A cannabis product manufacturing facility shall be considered a
permitted use in the following districts: HB highway oriented business
district; TWC transportation, warehousing, and commercial district; and I
industrial district. A cannabis product manufacturing facility shall be
considered a conditional use in the following districts: CB central business
district. (Ord. O2022-01, 2-14-2022)
10-15-6: REGULATIONS RELATING TO CANNABIS DISPENSARIES:
   A.    No cannabis dispensary shall be owned or operated at a location within
the city's zoning jurisdiction except as provided by this section. A cannabis
dispensary shall be considered a permitted use in the following districts: HB
highway oriented business district; TWC transportation, warehousing, and
commercial district; and I industrial district. A cannabis dispensary shall be
considered a conditional use in the following districts: CB central business
district.
   B.    No cannabis dispensary shall operate within three hundred feet (300')
of an educational institution, religious institution, childcare center
(excluding family residential childcare), preschool, nursery, detention
facility, or mental health facility. No cannabis dispensary shall operate
within one thousand feet (1,000') of another cannabis dispensary. Distances
shall be measured from the closest point of the property lines. Such buffer
distance requirements may be waived via the variance process so long as the
zoning district for the proposed location would be allowed if the applicable
buffer distance requirement were waived. (Ord. O2022-01, 2-14-2022)
10-15-7: ADDITIONAL VARIANCE AND CONDITIONAL USE FACTORS FOR CANNABIS
ESTABLISHMENTS:
In addition to any other factor which may be properly considered in the grant
or denial of a variance or conditional use permit, the following factors shall
be relevant for variance and conditional use requests relating to cannabis
establishments:
   A.   That the proposed land use is consistent with the intent of this
chapter and will not be contrary to public interest or injurious to nearby
properties.
   B.   That the proposed land use will not cause or contribute to the
formation or expansion of blighted area.
   C.   That all applicable ordinances and regulations will be observed. (Ord.
O2022-01, 2-14-2022)
10-15-8: PROHIBITED DISTRICTS FOR CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   All types of cannabis establishments are prohibited in the following
districts: all R residential districts, NS neighborhood shopping, PL public
lands and institutions district, CN conservation district, UD urban development
district, and all PUD planned unit development districts.
   B.   All non-licensed cannabis establishments are prohibited in all zoning
districts. (Ord. O2022-01, 2-14-2022)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-4: Exercise Of Extraterritorial Authority
11-1-5: Compliance Required; Prohibited Acts
11-1-6: Interpretation, Abrogation And Severability
11-1-7: Amendments
11-1-8: Enforcement
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title may be referred to as the LAND SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE for the city of
Mitchell, applicable to the jurisdictional area, including the extraterritorial
jurisdictional area, of the city. (2005 Code)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to regulate the subdivision of land so as to
coordinate streets with other subdivisions and uses, to provide water and
sanitation facilities, drainage and flood control, to foster efficient and
orderly urban growth compatible with the natural environment, to minimize cut
and fill operations, to prevent premature land subdivision and to conform with
the comprehensive plan for the city and its area of extraterritorial
jurisdiction. (2005 Code)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural include the singular and the singular shall include the plural. The word
"shall" is mandatory and not directory. Any word herein listed shall be defined
as in any recognized standard English dictionary.
ACCESS CONTROL EASEMENT: An easement on property adjacent to a street right of
way prohibiting vehicular access or street curb cuts to such designated
property.
ALLEY: A public or private right of way which affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
ARTERIAL STREET: A principal traffic artery, more or less continuous across the
city, which acts as a principal connecting street with state and federal
highways and includes each street designated as an arterial street on the major
street plan.
BASEMENT: A basement is any floor level below the first story in a building,
except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be
classified as a basement unless such floor level qualifies as a "first story"
as defined in this section.
BUILDING: Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind, and when separated by party walls
without openings, each portion of such building so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
BUILDING SETBACK LINES: A line parallel or approximately parallel to the lot
lines at a specified distance therefrom, marking the minimum distance from the
lot line that the building may be erected.
CITY OF MITCHELL OR CITY: The city of Mitchell, South Dakota.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street which carries traffic from local streets to arterial
streets or highways, including the principal entrance streets of a residential
development and streets for circulation within such development.
COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN: Any legally adopted part or element of the
comprehensive plan of the city.
CONTRACTOR: The person who contracts with an individual or the developer to
construct a building on a parcel of land prepared by the developer.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet having an appropriate terminal
for safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
DEDICATED: A grant of rights in land to the public for their perpetual use.
DEVELOPER: The person who converts raw land into platted, buildable lots. The
developer may or may not be the owner of the parcel or the builder of the
structures which occupy the lots.
DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which abuts a street on two (2) opposite sides (not a
corner lot).
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of his property.
FINAL PLAN: The final subdivision plan shall be comprised of final drainage and
grading plans, the final utility plan, if required, the erosion control plan
and the plat.
FLOOD PRONE AREA: A land area adjoining a river, creek, watercourse or lake
which is likely to be flooded.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An association of property owners joined together for
the purpose of maintaining an area held in common ownership.
LOCAL STREET: A street intended to provide access to other streets from
individual properties and to provide right of way beneath it for various
utilities but not intended to be used for through traffic.
LOT: A tract, plot or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended
as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or for building development.
MAJOR STREET PLAN: The thoroughfare plan in the adopted comprehensive plan.
MARGINAL ACCESS STREET: A street used only for access to a very limited number
of lots.
PLAT: The final layout of a subdivision complete with all irrevocable offers of
dedication and other depictions and information as required by law and
ordinance, as approved by the city council and as filed with the county
register of deeds.
PRIVATE STREET: A roadway which is not dedicated or offered for dedication, but
which serves as an access route, by easement or otherwise, to property. A
private street shall be owned and maintained by the property owners which it
serves.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or to be occupied by a street, railroad,
transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water lines, storm or sanitary sewer
lines, pedestrian walkways or other public or special use. The use of the term
"right of way" for platting purposes shall mean that every right of way
hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct
from the lots or parcels adjoining such right of way and not included within
the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights of way shall be
dedicated to public use by the owner of the plat on which such right of way is
established.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the finished floor
level directly above a basement or unused underfloor space if more than six
feet (6') above grade for more than fifty percent (50%) of the total perimeter
or is more than twelve feet (12') above grade at any point, or at any point
allows and provides for grade level entry (i.e. walk out basement); such
basement or unused underfloor space shall be considered as a story.
First Story: The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a story, except
that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be
classified as a first story, providing such floor level is not more than four
feet (4') below grade for more than fifty percent (50%) of the total perimeter,
or more than eight feet (8') below grade at any point.
STRUCTURAL ENTRANCE: Any doors or windows or other structural openings one
square foot in area or larger.
STRUCTURES: Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, structures include buildings, walls, fences and signs.
SUBDIVIDE: The act of creating a subdivision.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more separate
parcels. The term includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context,
shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
Major Subdivision: The division of a parcel of land into three (3) or more lots
for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for the purpose of separate
improvement, whether future or immediate; or any division of land involving a
new street(s) or extension of local government facilities and services or the
creation of the future necessity for new street(s) or other public facilities
and services, regardless of the number of parcels. (2005 Code)
11-1-4: EXERCISE OF EXTRATERRITORIAL AUTHORITY:
In accordance with South Dakota Codified Laws
11-3-6, 11-6-26.1 and any other authority provided by law or as such statutes
may be amended, the city does hereby exercise the power and authority to review
and approve or disapprove plats of land within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city as provided by law for such purpose. (2005 Code)
11-1-5: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person having control of any land within
the city and its area of extraterritorial jurisdiction to subdivide such land
into lots other than in accordance with the laws of the state of South Dakota
and the regulations contained herein.
   B.   No land shall be subdivided until the subdivider has conferred with the
director of public works regarding application of the provisions of this title
and the official comprehensive plan affecting the territory in which the
proposed subdivision lies.
   C.   In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdivision
plats shall be made in conformance with the following:
      1.   The comprehensive plan of the city and the policies set forth
therein.
      2.   The city zoning ordinance 1 .
      3.   The major street plan, showing the location, arrangement and
character of existing and planned streets.
      4.   The design standards as provided in chapter 3 of this title.
      5.   Other plans which may be or have been adopted that would affect the
subdivision and use of the land. (2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
11-1-6: INTERPRETATION, ABROGATION AND SEVERABILITY:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of public safety, health and
general welfare. It is not the intent of this title to repeal, abrogate or
impair any existing easement, covenant or deed restriction. Where these
provisions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with this title
are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only. If any section,
clause, provision or portion of this title is adjudged unconstitutional or
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the title shall
not be affected thereby. (2005 Code)
11-1-7: AMENDMENTS:
For the purpose of providing for the health, safety and general welfare of the
community, the city council may from time to time amend the provisions imposed
by these subdivision regulations in the manner prescribed by law. (2005 Code)
11-1-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the public works department and the
administrative personnel within such department to enforce these regulations
and to bring to the attention of the city attorney any violations or lack of
compliance herewith.
   B.   The administrative personnel within the public works department, and
any other official or person within the employ of the city, shall cooperate in
determining if the design standards and minimum improvements required have been
met, and shall cooperate with the city attorney in prosecuting any violation of
such standards.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this title, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punishable under the general penalty provisions in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
   D.   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
such subdivision has been approved by the city council and filed with the
county register of deeds, in accordance with the provisions of these
regulations.
   E.   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land within a major
subdivision by the use of descriptive method effected or utilized for the
purpose of sale, transfer or lease with the intent of evading these
regulations, shall not be permitted. All such described subdivisions shall be
subject to all the requirements contained in these regulations.
   F.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building
or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation of the
provisions of these regulations. The city may enjoin such transfer or sale or
agreement by action for injunction brought in any court of equity jurisdiction
or may recover the same penalty by a civil action in any court of competent
jurisdiction. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-2-1: Preapplication Approval
11-2-2: Minor Subdivision Approval Process
11-2-3: Major Subdivision Approval Process
11-2-4: Preliminary Major Subdivision Plat And Plans
11-2-5: Final Plans And Plat
11-2-6: Final Approval
11-2-7: Replats
11-2-1: PREAPPLICATION APPROVAL:
Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed, and before any permit for the
erection of any structure in such proposed subdivision shall be granted, the
subdivider, owner or his authorized agent shall secure approval from the city
officers and agencies in accordance with the procedures set forth below. When
deemed unnecessary by the director of public works under the circumstances of a
specific subdivision, he may waive such of the formally required procedural
steps or other requirements provided for herein as deemed by the director of
public works to be unnecessary under such circumstances; provided, however,
that waiver of any specific requirement shall not prevent the public works
director or his designee, or the planning and zoning commission, or the city
council from later requiring such specific requirement(s) in the event it is
later determined necessary under the circumstances. The waiver of any such
procedural or other requirement in any given circumstance shall not constitute
precedence in respect to any other circumstances, and every subdivision shall
be considered upon the individual circumstances for such purpose. (2005 Code)
11-2-2: MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCESS:
The approval process for minor subdivisions shall be in conformance with such
of the requirements as provided for approval of a major subdivision as the
director of public works shall from time to time establish by policy, and
subject to the requirements of law. (2005 Code)
11-2-3: MAJOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCESS:
All major subdivisions shall (unless waived by the director of public works)
obtain approval through the following described process:
   A.   Sketch Plan: Prior to the submission of the preliminary plan as
hereafter provided, the developer shall present a sketch of the proposed plan
to the director of public works for discussion and comment regarding the
requirements for the general layout of streets, reservations of land, street
improvements, drainage, sewerage, fire protection, availability of services and
similar matters.
   B.   Preliminary Plan: Based on the discussion of the sketch plan, and
unless waived by the director of public works, the developer shall submit the
preliminary plan for approval. The preliminary plan shall provide all of the
information as provided in section
11-2-4 of this chapter. The preliminary plan will be subject to review by the
director of public works and/or the planning and zoning commission.
   C.   Final Plat And Plan Submission And Approval: The final plan shall
consist of the prepared final plat and the final plans, all prepared after
preliminary review and approval, all in conformance with the provisions of this
title regarding final plat and plans. (2005 Code)
11-2-4: PRELIMINARY MAJOR SUBDIVISION PLAT AND PLANS:
Whenever a major subdivision is proposed, the developer shall submit and
provide to the director of public works, the names and personal communication
contact information (i.e., daytime telephone number) of the owner, developer,
engineer and surveyor, and the following:
   A.   Submission Of Preliminary Plat:
      1.   The developer shall submit ten (10) legible copies of the proposed
plat drawn to a minimum scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
The preliminary plat shall be submitted to the director of public works office
not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the planning and zoning commission
meeting at which the same shall be considered and shall contain the following:
         a.   The proposed name of the subdivision. The name shall not
duplicate, be the same in spelling or alike in pronunciation with the name of
any other recorded subdivision, unless it is an extension of or adjacent to
said subdivision, and shall be in conformance with the requirements of state
law.
         b.   The names of all adjacent subdivisions and all lot and block
lines, easements and rights of way adjoining unplatted property shall be
labeled as such.
         c.   Vicinity map to scale, showing location of the preliminary plan
and other property for at least six hundred sixty feet (660') in every
direction.
         d.   The correct legal description. Notations stating acreage, scale,
north arrow and date of survey.
         e.   A systematic lot and block numbering pattern, lot lines and
street names.
         f.   The location and width of all proposed and existing streets,
alleys and easements, as well as the location of any parks, watercourses, tree
masses, railroad rights of way and other significant features.
   B.   Submission Of Preliminary Plans: The following plans shall be submitted
to the director of public works in conjunction with the preliminary plat:
      1.   Preliminary Site Drainage And Grading Plan: A contour drawing
depicting the existing drainage pattern for the area along with any proposed
cut and fill operations which would alter the existing drainage patterns.
Existing contours shall be referenced to the city datum with intervals
sufficient to determine the character and topography of the land to be
subdivided, but in no case shall the intervals be more than one foot (1') for
land with a slope of one percent (1%) or less, two feet (2') for a slope
between one and one-tenth percent (1.1%) and nine and nine-tenths percent
(9.9%) and five feet (5') for land with a slope exceeding ten percent (10%).
      2.   Preliminary Utility Plan: A line drawing depicting and describing
the location of the nearest available sewer and water connections, the
direction of the proposed sanitary sewer flow, and the proposed location of any
lift stations.
      3.   Preliminary Street Grading Plan: The street grading plan shall show
finished street grades shown to an accuracy of one-tenth of a foot (0.10'),
showing existing conditions and proposed curb grades, and a detailed design for
all intersections. Where the developer owns only half the property which makes
up a street, he shall be responsible for establishing the street grades for
said street for approval by the director of public works.
      4.   Preliminary Erosion Control Plan: The erosion control plan shall
show all proposed land disturbance including areas of excavation, grading,
filling, removal or destruction of topsoil and spreading of earth material,
including the proposed sequence of the operations listed above during
construction, with an estimated time of exposure and the proposed temporary
measures to control erosion will be designed to withstand the 2-year rain and
shown on the plat.
One or more of the above specified plans may be depicted upon a single scaled
line drawing or diagram if so approved by the director of public works,
prepared to the standards acceptable to the director of public works. Upon
inquiry, the director of public works shall consult with the developer during
the course of the preparation of the preliminary plat and plans so as, to the
extent possible, avert otherwise unnecessary reworkings of the preliminary plat
and plans to meet and satisfy the requirements of the city.
   C.   Approval Of Preliminary Plat And Plans: The preliminary plat and
associated plans shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission for
approval or disapproval. The approved plan shall be kept on file in the office
of the director of public works. Approval of the preliminary plan shall
indicate approval of the development concept only, and does not constitute an
acceptance or approval of the subdivision plan. No zoning or building permits
shall be issued based on the approval of the preliminary plan. The approval of
a preliminary plan shall be effective for a period of three (3) years at the
end of which time approval on the subdivision plat or a portion thereof must
have been obtained from the city council. Any plan which has not received
approval for all or a portion of it within the period of time set forth herein,
shall be null and void, and the developer may, at the option of the planning
and zoning commission, be required to resubmit a new plan for preliminary
approval subject to any then existing zoning restrictions, subdivision
regulations or other factors effecting the plan. (2005 Code)
11-2-5: FINAL PLANS AND PLAT:
   A.   Submission Of Final Plans: Following the approval of the preliminary
plan, if the developer elects to proceed with the subdivision, he shall submit
four (4) copies of the utility, drainage, grading and, if required, erosion
control plan, each prepared to the specifications of the director of public
works and planning and zoning commission made subsequent to the preliminary
review process, to the director of public works fifteen (15) days prior to the
planning and zoning commission meeting at which consideration is requested for
plat approval. Additionally, the final plans shall include final utility plans
which shall show:
      1.   The final sewer system layout showing the direction of flow, the
manhole locations and their approximate depth to scale as approved by the
director of public works.
      2.   The final water system layout showing the location of existing water
lines and the proposed pipe sizes as approved by the director of public works.
   B.   Submission Of Final Plat: The final plat shall be drawn on one or more
sheets whose dimensions and material are as required by state law 1 . One
original of the final plat, together with ten (10) legible copies thereof,
shall be submitted to the director of public works not less than fifteen (15)
days prior to the planning and zoning commission meeting at which consideration
is requested for plat approval. In addition to any other information,
certifications and/or depictions required by state law, the final plat shall
show and depict all of the information as specified in respect to the
preliminary plat, together with the certifications of approval for the
endorsement by the planning and zoning commission and the city council. (2005
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL ch. 11-3.
11-2-6:FINAL APPROVAL:
   A.   Assurances Required: Unless the developer shall provide the city with a
bond as provided in South Dakota Codified Laws 11-6-29, the final plat shall be
approved only after the city council has received from the developer a letter
of assurance in the form satisfactory to the director of public works,
establishing responsibility for the installation of the improvements required
by the final plans or any revision thereof in a satisfactory manner and within
a period specified by the city council, such period not to exceed three (3)
years. An extension to that three (3) year period may be granted at the
discretion of the city council. Once said bond or letter has been received, the
plat shall be eligible for approval or disapproval as provided by law.
   B.   Approval Fee: The fee for approval of a subdivision by plat in
conformance with the requirements of this title shall be as established from
time to time by resolution of the city council, and shall be paid at the
finance office prior to the final approval of any plat being annotated thereon.
The fee, if established, shall be in such sum as shall be reasonably calculated
to defray the expenses, including fixed personnel expense, which shall be
incurred by the city, or reasonably allocated to the process of subdivision and
plat approval as provided herein. The fee for minor subdivisions may be a
lesser amount than the fee for a major subdivision.
   C.   As-Built Plans: Upon completion of the work prescribed by the final
plans, the developer shall provide to the director of public works a complete
set of the as-built plans prepared upon reproducible film showing all
improvements as finally constructed and installed. A field survey shall not be
required unless specified by the director of public works. The as-built plans
shall show all revisions that are incorporated in the plans that were presented
and approved. (2005 Code)
11-2-7: REPLATS:
   A.   Major Subdivisions:
      1.   A replat of a major subdivision will be permitted without the
requirement of compliance with the three (3) stage approval process provided
for in respect to major subdivisions where:
         a.   The perimeter of the tract being replatted shall not be altered
by the replat.
         b.   Either the grades shall not be changed from the drainage plan
which was submitted and approved with the original plat or, if the grades are
going to be changed, then a drainage plan shall be submitted and approved for
the subdivision.
         c.   The replat shall not significantly change any plans that have
been prepared for the placement of utilities in the subdivision. If the
resubdivision meets these stipulations, the replat may be submitted as a plat,
provided the previous lines are shown.
      2.   All replats which do not satisfy the above criteria which do not
qualify as a minor subdivision shall follow the approval procedure as required
for a new major subdivision.
   B.   Minor Subdivisions: Minor subdivisions by replatting shall follow such
procedure as the director of public works shall establish by policy. (2005
Code)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Street System
11-3-2: Street Names
11-3-3: Alleys
11-3-4: Lots And Blocks
11-3-5: Sidewalks
11-3-6: Homeowners' Associations
11-3-7: Easements
11-3-8: Water Facilities
11-3-9: Sanitary Sewers
11-3-10: Drainage And Storm Sewers
11-3-11: Preservation Of Natural Features And Amenities
11-3-12: Areas Subject To Periodic Inundation
11-3-13: Variations And Exceptions
11-3-1: STREET SYSTEM:
   A.   Arrangement: The arrangement of streets in new subdivision shall
conform to the major street plan and shall make provisions for the continuation
of existing streets in adjoining areas or their proper projection where
adjoining land is not subdivided.
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   Collector Streets: Provisions shall be made for a collector street
every one-half (1/2) mile, and there should be a street connecting adjacent
subdivisions at intervals not less than a one-quarter (1/4) mile where
topographical and land use considerations permit. The arrangement of all
streets and alleys shall be such as not to cause a hardship to owners of
adjoining property when they plat their own land and seek to provide for
convenient access to such adjoining property. All streets shall be constructed
with the minimum widths provided herein. Intersection offsets shall be avoided.
      2.   Identification: In undeveloped or vacant areas, streets shall be
identified and classified by the planning and zoning commission. The location
of major streets shall conform with the current official major street plan.
      3.   Dedications: Dedications of street right of way shall have widths
not less than as sixty six feet (66'), provided that the director of public
works and/or planning and zoning commission may require a wider street where
appropriate, such as in respect to arterial and collector streets.
      4.   Cul-De-Sacs:
         a.   Cul-de-sacs are not encouraged but may be permitted, where due to
physical constraints, it is necessary for the reasonable development of the
subdivision.
         b.   Streets designed as permanent cul-de-sacs shall be provided with
a turnaround having a minimum right of way diameter of one hundred thirty feet
(130') and a roadway diameter of one hundred feet (100'). Between the street
and the circle there shall be a twenty foot (20') reverse radius unless
otherwise approved by the director of public works. No cul-de-sacs shall exceed
five hundred feet (500') in length. When deemed necessary by the director of
public works, temporary cul-de-sacs may be required on roads that will
eventually be continued.
         c.   Curb openings for driveways shall be a maximum of twenty feet
(20') per lot. Minimum lot width of seventy five feet (75') (chord distance)
will be measured at the front property line around a cul-de-sac adjacent to the
right of way (E 539-1).
   C.   Minimum Pavement Widths: Unless exception is made by the city council,
the portion of the roadway required to be paved, between the curb lines, is a
minimum width of forty feet (40'); provided, however, that in respect to
arterial and collector streets, the required width may be increased upon the
recommendation of the public works director.
   D.   Street Grades:
      1.   Street grades shall not exceed the following unless otherwise
recommended and approved by the director of public works:
   Street Type   Percent Grade
   Arterials   6.0
   Minor arterials   6.0
   Collectors   7.0
   Local   8.0
   Local with off street parking   8.0
Minimum grades of any street shall not be less than one-half percent (0.5%)
unless otherwise approved by the director of public works.
      2.   Vertical curves shall be such as to provide safe stopping sight
distance for the design speed based on equations developed by AASHTO and
approved by the director of public works.
   E.   Alignment And Visibility:
      1.   Minimum radii of horizontal curvature on the centerline shall not be
less than one hundred feet (100') on collectors and seventy five feet (75') on
local streets unless otherwise recommended by the director of public works.
      2.   Tangents between reverse curves shall be as approved by the director
of public works.
      3.   Angular breaks in right of way alignments of more than two degrees
(2°) are not permitted. Street pavement and curbs shall be curved in all cases.
      4.   Clear horizontal visibility, measured along the centerline shall
equal or exceed at least six hundred feet (600') on arterial streets, three
hundred feet (300') on collector streets, and at least twenty feet (20') on
local and marginal access streets.
      5.   Where there are roads in existence, engineering plans for rights of
way must be so designed as to eliminate bends, crooks, jogs and other
undesirable hazardous conditions.
   F.   Intersections:
      1.   Acute angles at street intersections are to be avoided as much as
possible, but in no case will an angel of less than eighty degrees (80°) be
permitted.
      2.   Not more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point
unless specifically approved.
      3.   Intersection offsets of less than one hundred twenty five feet
(125') (centerline to centerline) shall be prohibited except where the street
is divided by a median and no median breaks are provided.
      4.   Intersections on arterial streets less than six hundred feet (600')
apart (centerline to centerline) shall be avoided.
      5.   Minimum radii of intersections shall be as follows:
         a.   Property lines at the intersection of two (2) arterial streets
shall be rounded with a radius of twenty five feet (25'). An increased radius
shall be required where the angle of intersection is less than ninety degrees
(90°).
         b.   Roadway and curb intersections shall be made concentric and shall
be rounded by a radius of not less than fifteen feet (15').
   G.   Half Streets:
      1.   Whenever an existing half street is adjacent to a tract being
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within said
subdivision.
      2.   A preliminary plat of a subdivision may show half a street along
adjoining property which has not been subdivided, but no lot abutting on such
half street shall have a building permit issued for it until such time as the
other half street is dedicated.
   H.   Private Roads; Places: The use of private roads shall be discouraged;
however, in cases where a private road is permitted, it shall meet the
following requirements:
      1.   Private streets shall be surfaced by the developer to a width of no
less than twenty eight feet (28'), and maintained in a passable condition.
Greater width may be required when necessary. All private streets must provide
a height clearance of fourteen feet six inches (14'6") as a minimum and are
subject to the same grade requirements as public streets.
      2.   A road maintenance agreement among property owners who will depend
on said private street for access will be required to be filed with the plat.
This agreement shall affix the legal responsibilities for the repair and
maintenance of any private streets and the required signs.
      3.   The homeowners' association shall be required to place street signs
on all private streets or to pay the city to place street signs for private
streets at the locations the director of public works deems necessary for the
safety and convenience of the public. Street signs shall be of such a style and
material to render them easily readable at night as well as day, and are
subject to the approval of the director of public works.
      4.   Buildings located adjacent to a private street shall be addressed
and are subject to the approval of the street committee of the city.
      5.   Private streets shall be indicated on the plat with broken lines.
Any lots adjacent to a private street shall have their lot lines extended to
include the area used for streets.
      6.   Any private street accepted by the city must provide permanent
unobstructed public access to the area it serves, neither erecting nor
permitting the erection of any structure within or adjacent to said access
which would in any way interfere with the use of the private street by the
public or any governmental agency.
      7.   Any plat presented for city council approval which shows a private
street as a means of access shall provide language in the owner's certificate
reserving said private street as a permanent unobstructed access easement.
      8.   The city will not subsequently accept a private street for
dedication unless and until it is brought up to city standards, providing
adequate right of way without requiring variances for setbacks. (2005 Code)
11-3-2: STREET NAMES:
   A.   Streets obviously in alignment with existing streets shall bear the
names of those streets.
   B.   No street names shall be used which will duplicate, be the same in
spelling or alike in pronunciation with any other existing streets. All street
names should be kept as short as possible to permit signs to be no longer than
thirty six inches (36"). Street names shall be applied as follows:
Avenue - a road running east and west
   Street - a road running north and south
Road - a road running east and west or north and south, such names may only be
assigned to major rights of way
   Lane - a road running northeast to southwest
   Drive - a road running northwest to southeast
Trail - a road which wanders in different directions
   Circle - all cul-de-sacs
Court - a road with two (2) openings which enters and exists on the same street
   Place - all private roads
   Boulevard - a minor street divided by a median
   C.   When, due to topography, offsets caused by rectangular surveys or other
physical features, streets become interrupted, quarter-line and section line
streets shall retain the same name on either side of the irregularities.
   D.   Subdivision names and apartment project names shall not duplicate, be
the same in spelling or alike in pronunciation with any existing subdivision or
apartment project names expect that apartment names which correspond to the
subdivision in which they are located will be allowed. These names shall be
subject to the approval of the director of public works. (2005 Code)
11-3-3: ALLEYS:
   A.   Alleys shall be required in commercial and industrial districts, except
where provision is made for service access, such as off street loading,
unloading and parking consistent with the requirements set forth in the zoning
regulations.
   B.   Alleys may be permitted in residential districts when conditions
warrant an alternative means of access. (2005 Code)
11-3-4: LOTS AND BLOCKS:
   A.   Permanent Markers: All subdivision boundary corners shall be marked
with monuments to grade and noted on the subdivision plat.
   B.   Blocks:
      1.   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
regard to:
         a.   Provision of adequate building sites available to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated.
         b.   The need for convenient access, circulation, control and safety
of traffic and utilities.
         c.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
      2.   Block lengths shall be between four hundred feet (400') and one
thousand feet (1,000') and shall normally be wide enough to allow two (2) tiers
of lots of an appropriate depth.
   C.   Lots:
      1.   Lot dimensions shall be appropriate for the location of the
subdivision and conform to the requirements of the zoning regulations.
      2.   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial
and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide off street parking and
loading for the use contemplated.
      4.   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to allow for
two (2) front yards.
      5.   All interior lots lines shall be a straight line or a series of
straight lines. Curved interior lot lines shall be prohibited.
      6.   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to streets except on curves
where they shall be radial except when otherwise approved by the director of
public works.
      7.   Each lot shall abut a dedicated public right of way or approved
private street.
      8.   Arterial Street Development Patterns: In order to maintain the
traffic carrying capacity of the arterial streets by limiting access to it from
individual lots, and in order to protect the residents of property adjacent to
arterial streets from the high traffic volumes associated with the street,
property along such arterials shall be subdivided in the manner set forth
below:
         a.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots are particularly
appropriate for single-family development along arterial streets. Where double
frontage lots are used, an extra lot depth or width shall be required to
provide for an extra setback to offset the impact of high traffic volume. If
double frontage lots are approved for one side of an arterial street, the other
side of the arterial street will be required to plat double frontage lots as
well. In this way, utilities will not have to be placed under the arterial
street.
         b.   Side Blocks Onto Arterial Streets: In order to avoid private
access from individual lots onto arterial streets, lots should be arranged on
blocks so that their side yards are adjacent to the arterial street. Lots
adjacent to an arterial street shall have an additional width to provide for an
extra setback to offset the impact of high traffic volume. This design will be
accepted only for a limited distance due to the number of streets which would
intersect with the arterial.
         c.   Access Roads: Access roads will be used as the city expands into
the new areas where they have been required by the county. Under some
circumstances they would also be appropriate for commercial and industrial
development. Access roads will be required to be constructed to city standards
with a right of way width of not less than fifty feet (50').
         d.   Rear Access Roads: Rear access roads are recommended for
commercial developments. In this way the access can serve two (2) tiers of lots
and alleviate the dangerous turning movements onto and off of arterial streets.
         e.   Townhouses, Multiple-Family Units And Other Nontraditional
Housing Styles: These types of development are particularly suitable for the
intersection of two (2) arterial streets. Any development of this type should
have limited access to the arterial street.
         f.   Alleys: In general, alleys are not encouraged, but they may be
appropriate and permitted in unique situations. Alleys will be permitted at the
discretion of public works director and planning and zoning commission.
      9.   An access control easement shall be placed on lots adjoining
arterial streets between access points.
      10.   Plats for residential development adjacent to functioning railroad
rights of way shall provide extra width of not less than twenty feet (20') to
provide for an extra setback to offset the impact of the railroad traffic.
(2005 Code)
11-3-5: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated nonpavement right of
way of all streets.
   B.   Sidewalks shall be improved on both sides of streets, and shall be four
feet (4') in width and constructed to standards approved by the director of
public works. A median strip of grassed area at least five feet (5') wide shall
separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs.
   C.   In order to facilitate pedestrian access from roads to schools, parks,
playgrounds or other nearby roads, the planning and zoning commission may
require perpetual unobstructed easements at least ten feet (10') in width.
   D.   The planning and zoning commission, in its discretion, may waive the
requirement that the applicant install sidewalks prior to the signing of the
subdivision plat, and that as an alternative, the applicant post a bond or set
up an escrow account to cover the cost of construction. The planning and zoning
commission will estimate the amount needed to assure that installations and
dedication of the uncompleted portion of the required improvements can be
carried out. (2005 Code)
11-3-6: HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATIONS:
Where the subdivision contains park areas, road maintenance systems or other
facilities or services which are necessary to or desirable for the area, and
which are of common use or benefit and which are not accepted for maintenance
by an existing public agency, provisions shall be made by trust agreement for
the proper and continuous maintenance and supervision of such facilities. A
final and signed copy of said agreement shall be attached to each and every
plat having a facility or service covered by such an agreement. (2005 Code)
11-3-7: EASEMENTS:
   A.   All easements shall be shown on the plat.
   B.   Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for utilities
and drainage where necessary and shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') in
total width unless otherwise required by the public works director.
   C.   Where topographical or other conditions warrant side yard easements and
easements across lots, easements at least ten feet (10') in total width shall
be provided.
   D.   Whenever any stream or important surface drainage course is located in
an area which is being subdivided, the subdivider shall provide an adequate
dedication along each side of the stream when required by the director of
public works.
   E.   Lots and easements shall be arranged in such a manner as to eliminate
unnecessary jogs or offsets and to facilitate the use of easements for power
distribution, telephone service, drainage, water and sewer services.
   F.   The property owner whose property is subject to such easements shall be
responsible for its maintenance. The property owners shall keep the easement
clear of any structure, debris, trees, shrubs or landscaping whatsoever except
that lawn grass, which shall be regularly mowed, and annual vegetation may be
grown thereon, and no permanent fences shall be allowed. (2005 Code)
11-3-8: WATER FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Necessary action shall be taken by the applicant to provide a water
supply system capable of providing domestic water use and fire protection.
      2.   Where a public water main is accessible, the subdivider shall
install adequate water facilities (including fire hydrants) subject to the
specifications of the public works department as shown on the final utility
plan.
      3.   Water main extensions shall be approved by the public works director
and the city council.
      4.   To facilitate the above, the location of all fire hydrants, all
water supply improvements, and the boundary lines of proposed districts shall
be shown on the preliminary water and sewer plan.
   B.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions
where city water mains are available. Fire hydrants shall be approved by the
fire department. To eliminate future street openings, all underground utilities
for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants themselves and all other
supply improvements, shall be installed before any final paving of a street
shown on the subdivision plat. (2005 Code)
11-3-9: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   Provided For Each Lot: Each lot within a subdivision area shall be
provided with a connection to an approved public sanitary sewer and which would
serve at least the main floor.
   B.   Exceptions: In areas where a public sanitary sewer is not reasonably
accessible, but where plans, including the comprehensive plan, a facilities
plan or any other approved plan for the installation of sanitary sewers in the
vicinity of the subdivision has been prepared, the subdivider shall install
sewers in conformity to plans approved by the director of public works. In
cases where a connection to an existing public sanitary sewer may not be
immediately practical, a connection may be made to the gravity sewer system by
the use of a lift station, constructed in accordance with the regulations and
requirements set forth by the director of public works. (2005 Code)
11-3-10: DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS:
   A.   Drainage Plan: The final grading and drainage plan for the subdivision
shall be submitted to and approved by the director of public works. The grading
and drainage plan shall, as much as possible, be laid out to conform to the
natural contour of the land. Storm sewers shall be designed to carry a minimum
of the 5-year, as developed, storm and the director of public works may require
holding the 100-year storm and releasing water at the 5-year, predeveloped,
rate.
   B.   Design Methodology: The final grading and drainage plan shall be made
prior to all other utility plans. The drainage system shall take into account
the ultimate development of the tributary area. Surface water drainage plans
shall be shown for each and every lot and block on the final drainage plan.
(Ord. 2403, 5-21-2012)
   C.   Drainage Easements:
      1.   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make impractical
the inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights of way, perpetual,
unobstructed drainage easements of a minor nature, at least twenty feet (20')
in width shall be provided where deemed necessary by the director of public
works. The director of public works may require additional width or setback as
deemed necessary. Said easements shall be required to be kept clear by the
owner from all fill, debris, trees, landscaping, structures or vegetation which
will in any way impair the drainage course or the water carrying capacity of
the drainageway except that lawn grass which shall be regularly mowed and
annual vegetation may be grown thereon. All routine maintenance along said
drainageways shall be performed by the adjacent property owners. All such
drainageway easements shall be indicated on the plat.
      2.   Where runoff from the proposed subdivision is redirected or
significantly increased, and off premises drainage easements and improvements
are required to carry this water away from the subdivision, appropriate
drainage rights must be secured and shown on the plat.
   D.   Additional Information: The director of public works may require
whatever additional engineering information he deems necessary on subdivision
and other developments which are in areas of questionable drainage.
   E.   Limitations Of Building Type: The director of public works may limit
development in areas with high water tables to structures constructed without
basements.
   F.   Structural Entrances: In areas where drainageways are allowed, all
structural entrances shall have an elevation which exceeds the water elevation
that would be reached during a 100-year rainfall. (2005 Code)
11-3-11: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES:
   A.   Existing Features: Existing features which would add value to
residential development or to the community as a whole, such as trees,
watercourses and similar irreplaceable assets, should be preserved in the
design of the subdivision.
   B.   Sensitive Environmental Areas: Sensitive environmental areas if shown
on the comprehensive plan shall be reviewed with regard to the special
character of the area taking into consideration harmonious design,
environmental protection and topographical restraints. (2005 Code)
11-3-12: AREAS SUBJECT TO PERIODIC INUNDATION:
   A.   Flood Zones: Land areas of such elevation and location to be subject to
periodic inundation by floodwaters shall not be subdivided or developed except
as provided below.
   B.   Development Review In Flood Zones 1 : Proposed subdivisions and
proposed new developments shall be reviewed to determine whether such proposals
will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a subdivision proposal or other
proposed new development is in a flood prone area, the floodway and floodplain
shall be shown on the plat and elevations must be shown. Any such proposals
shall be reviewed to assure that:
      1.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood prone area.
      2.   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      3.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      4.   That such development would be allowed by the zoning regulations of
the city.
      5.   That no provision of the city's flood control regulations 2  or
other state or federal laws, regulations or rules are violated. (2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 12-1-5C of this code.
2 2. See title 12, chapter 1 of this code.
11-3-13: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements contained in these regulations would
unnecessarily result in substantial hardship or injustice, the city council,
after report by the planning and zoning commission and the director of public
works may vary or modify such requirements such that the subdivider may develop
his property in a reasonable manner, but so that, at the same time, the public
welfare and interests of the city and surrounding area are protected and the
general intent and spirit of these regulations preserved. (2005 Code)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Methods
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: General Provisions
12-1-4: Administration
12-1-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS:
   A.   Statutory Authorization And Adoption Of Ordinance 1 : The city of
Mitchell, South Dakota, elects to comply with the requirements of the national
flood insurance act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The national flood
insurance program, established in the aforesaid act, provides that areas of the
county having a special flood hazard be identified by the federal emergency
management agency and that floodplain management measures be applied in such
flood hazard areas. The national flood insurance program was broadened and
modified with the passage of the flood disaster protection act of 1973 and
other legislative measures. It was further modified by the national flood
insurance reform act of 1994. The national flood insurance program is
administered by the federal emergency management agency, a component of the
U.S. department of homeland security.
   B.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Mitchell are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      7.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   D.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter uses the following methods:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      2.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      4.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
      5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 2342, 9-20-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. SDCL Ch. 9-36.
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
APPEAL BOARD: The planning and zoning commission of the City of Mitchell.
AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD: The land area that would be inundated
by the one percent (1%) annual chance (100-year) flood based on future
conditions hydrology.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on a
community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has
been completed in preparation for publication of the flood insurance rate map,
zone A usually is refined into zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30,
AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of these
regulations, the term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with
the phrase "area of special flood hazard".
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD RELATED EROSION HAZARD: The land within a community which
is most likely to be subject to severe flood related erosion losses. The area
may be designated as zone E on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After the
detailed evaluation of the special flood related erosion hazard area; in
preparation for publication of the FIRM, zone E may be further refined.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The water surface elevation of the one percent (1%)
annual chance flood. The height in relation to mean sea level expected to be
reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains
of coastal and riverine areas.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BREAKAWAY WALL: A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A statement from FEMA that if a
project is constructed as planned, a letter of map revision can be issued
later.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away of land masses. This peril is
not per se covered under the program.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXISTING STRUCTURES: See definition of Existing Construction.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION: A determination by the administrator of the
water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a
one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY OR FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: An examination, evaluation and
determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface
elevations, or an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) and/or flood related erosion hazards.
FLOOD OR FLOODING:
   A.   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from:
      1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
defined in subsection A1 of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
   B.   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in subsection A1 of this definition.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: See definition of Regulatory Floodway.
FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES: The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state and local floodplain maps.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
purposes of floodplain management. "Freeboard" tends to compensate for the many
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): An official revision to a FEMA map done by
describing the property affected.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F): An official revision to a FEMA
map done by describing the property affected with new fill.
LEVEE: A manmade structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of CFR section 60.3.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MAP: The flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) or the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the agency.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, new construction means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: See definition of Area Of Special Flood Hazard.
SPECIAL HAZARD AREA: An area having special flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), or
flood related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as zone A, AO, A1-
30, AE, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, A99, AH, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M,
or E.
START OF CONSTRUCTION (For Other Than New Construction Or Substantial
Improvements Under The Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)):
Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally aboveground, as
well as a manufactured home. Structure, for insurance purposes, means:
   A.   A building with two (2) or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured
roof, that is affixed to a permanent site;
   B.   A manufactured home ("a manufactured home", also known as a mobile
home, is a structure: built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in
one or more sections, and affixed to a permanent foundation); or
   C.   A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a
permanent foundation, that is regulated under the community's floodplain
management and building ordinances or laws.
For the latter purpose, "structure" does not mean a recreational vehicle or a
park trailer or other similar vehicle, except as described in subsection C of
this definition, or a gas or liquid storage tank.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in CFR sections 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4),
(c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 2342, 9-20-2010; amd. Ord. O2019-14, 8-19-2019)
12-1-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the city of Mitchell and extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction.
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency management agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study For The
City Of Mitchell", dated September 29, 2010, with accompanying flood insurance
rate maps (FIRM), dated September 29, 2010, and any revisions thereto are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   C.   Establishment Of Development Permit: A development permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered,
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1. Considered as minimum requirements;
      2. Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3. Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Or Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes.
This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood
hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder. (Ord. 2342, 9-20-2010)
12-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator: The city of Mitchell
director of public works or his/her designee is to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national
flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator: Duties and
responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is South Dakota emergency management, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with subsection
12-1-3B of this section, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
this chapter.
      9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
      10.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
national flood insurance program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1'), provided
that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA
(conditional letter of map revision).
   C.   Permit Procedures:
      1.   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
         a.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed;
         c.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of subsection
12-1-5B of this chapter;
         d.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         e.   Maintain a record of all such information.
      2.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems;
         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area.
   D.   Variance Procedures: The appeal board shall hear and render judgement
on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      1.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      2.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency and the state office of emergency management upon issuing a
variance.
      3.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection C of this
section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      4.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
      5.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      6.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
      7.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
         a.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         b.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (1) Showing a good and sufficient cause;
            (2) A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            (3) A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that
the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor elevation
below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
      8.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
         a.   The criteria outlined in subsections D1 through D7 of this
section are met, and
         b.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
      9.   A CLOMR is required only for those projects that will:
         a.   BFE/No floodway (demonstrate <1.0 foot increase):
            (1) A project on a stream or river that has been studied through
detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses and for which base flood elevations
(BFEs) have been specified, but a floodway has not been designated. If the
developer/property owner/community proposes to allow development that would
result in more than a 1.0 foot increase in the BFE, a CLOMR must first be
obtained.
            (2) 44 CFR 60.3(c)(10): Result in an increase in the base flood
water surface elevation (WSEL) of greater than 1.00 foot for streams with BFEs
specified but no regulatory floodway designated.
         b.   BFE/Floodway (no rise):
            (1) The second situation requiring a CLOMR is for a project on a
stream or river for which detailed analyses have been conducted and BFEs and a
floodway have been designated. If the community proposes to allow development
totally or partially within the floodway that would result in any (greater than
0.0 foot) increase in the BFE, a CLOMR must be obtained.
            (2) 44 CFR 60.3(d)(3): Result in any base flood WSEL increase from
proposed construction within a regulatory floodway.
      LOMRs are required under 44 CFR 65.3; optional for community to add
language to ordinance. (Ord. 2342, 9-20-2010; amd. Ord. O2019-14, 8-19-2019)
12-1-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided the following provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement), elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation. A
registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
chapter are satisfied.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to one foot
(1') above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator.
      3.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      4.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on
a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over
the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         b.   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites: 1)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, 2) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, 3) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, or 4) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         c.   In A1-30, AH, and AE zones, require that manufactured homes to be
placed or substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park to be
elevated so that the lowest floor is at or above the base flood elevation; or
the chassis is supported by reinforced piers no less than thirty six inches
(36") in height above grade and securely anchored.
      5.   Recreational Vehicles: Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days,
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
         c.   Meet the permit requirements of subsection
12-1-4C of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
"manufactured homes" of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
   C.   Standards For Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of this chapter.
      3.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is lesser.
      4.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      5    All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
   D.   Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones): Located within
the areas of special flood hazard established in subsection
12-1-3B of this chapter, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas
have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three
feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding
is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified).
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures:
         a.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified), or
         b.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
      3.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in subsection
12-1-4C1a of this chapter, are satisfied.
      4.   Require within zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   E.   Floodways: Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard
established in section
12-1-3 of this chapter, are extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity of
floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential,
the following provisions shall apply:
      1.   Designate a regulatory floodway which will not increase the base
flood level more than one foot (1').
      2.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this section.
      4.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
national flood insurance regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations, provided that the community first applies for a conditional
FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA.
   F.   Penalties For Noncompliance: In accordance with section 59.2(b) of CFR
44, chapter 1, of the national flood insurance program (NFIP) regulation, to
qualify for the sale of federally subsidized flood insurance, a community must
adopt floodplain management regulations that meets or exceeds the minimum
standards of section 60. "These regulations must include effective enforcement
provisions." In accordance with section 60.1(b) of CFR 44, chapter 1, of the
NFIP regulations, "These regulations must be legally enforceable, applied
uniformly throughout the community to all privately and publicly owned land
within flood prone (i.e., mudflow) or flood related erosion areas, and the
community must provide that the regulations take precedence over less
restrictive conflicting local laws, ordinances or codes."
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
to exceed the current maximum penalty for conviction of a class 2 misdemeanor
from time to time in effect under South Dakota code or imprisoned for not more
than thirty (30) days, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall
prevent the city of Mitchell from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 2342, 9-20-2010)
