OLDHAM, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Local Legislation Ord. passed July 7, 2014
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles, chapters
and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Oldham Code,” for which
designation “code of ordinances” or “codified ordinances” may be substituted. 
Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of the law
as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally.  Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY.  The City of Oldham, South Dakota.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNTY.  Kingsbury County.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S).  Voter(s).
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   GOVERNING BODY.  The City Council.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   LOT.  Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   MONTH.  A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION.  All cities and towns organized under
the laws of this state but shall not include any other political subdivisions.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ORDINANCE.  A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   OWNER.  As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county or counties in which the municipality is
located, or his or her heirs or successors.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   PUBLICATION.  Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be published shall be equivalent to the required publication.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   RESOLUTION.  Any determination that, decision, or direction of the governing
body of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   SDCL.  South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STATE.  The State of South Dakota.
   STREET.  STREET includes AVENUE.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   YEAR.  A calendar year.
§ 10.05  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07  REFERENCES TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer
of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09  POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS;
GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions and regulations as may be proper and necessary to carry
into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.  In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Municipalities are authorized to provide for the punishment of each
violation of an ordinance, resolution or regulation with a fine not to exceed
$500 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 22-6-2(2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   FAIR HOUSING BOARD
      
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
34.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Wards of the city into one precinct for voting purposes
   
30.02   Districts
   
30.03   Officers
   
30.04   Duties
   
30.05   Salaries
   
30.06   Special meetings
   
30.07   Form of government; meetings; salaries
   
30.08   Registration of warrants
§ 30.01  WARDS OF THE CITY INTO ONE PRECINCT FOR VOTING PURPOSES.
   (A)   Consolidating the three wards of the city into one precinct for voting
purposes.
      (1)   Purpose. Because of the number of legal voters in the three
contiguous wards of the city did not exceed 350 in the last annual election,
and because of the unnecessary expense involved in the administration of the
election processes by virtue of the three wards as they now exist, it is hereby
determined that it would be in the best interests of the city to consolidate
the three contiguous wards into one precinct for voting purposes pursuant to
SDCL § 9-13-16.
      (2)   Authorization. It is hereby ordained by the city that Wards 1, 2
and 3, City of Oldham, Kingsbury County, South Dakota, are hereby consolidated
into one precinct for voting purposes for all municipal, county, state and
national elections all pursuant to SDCL § 9-13-16.
   (B)   Consolidating Oldham City Ward 2 and Oldham City Ward 3.
      (1)   In as much as the number of legal voters in Oldham City Ward 2 and
Oldham City Ward 3 in the last annual election did not exceed 350, and pursuant
to SDCL § 9-13-16, the City Commission can consolidate such two wards into one
precinct for voting purposes.
      (2)   Oldham City Ward 2 and Ward 3 are hereby consolidated into one
precinct for voting purposes.
(Ord. 146, passed - -; Ord. 168, passed - -)
§ 30.02  DISTRICTS.
   The city shall be, and hereby is, divided into three districts, which
districts shall be bounded as follows.
   (A)   First District. All territory in the city lying north of a line
running east and west through the alley in Block 4, 5 and 6, projected of the
original city plat of said city, shall be known and styled as the First
District of said city.
   (B)   Second District. All that territory lying between a line running east
and west through the alley in Blocks 4, 5 and 6, projected, of the original
city plat of the city, and Arthur Street projected, shall be known and styled
as the Second District of said city.
   (C)   Third District. All that territory lying south of Arthur Street
projected shall be known and styled as the Third District of said city.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 30.03  OFFICERS.
   In addition to the officers elected that are provided for by law, the City
Council shall appoint a City Marshal, and such other peace officers as shall,
in its judgment, be necessary or expedient, and may also appoint any other
officers that may be necessary or expedient. All such appointed officers shall
hold their respective terms of office for a term not extending beyond the first
Monday in May next thereafter, or until their successors are appointed and
qualified; provided, also, that the City Council or the President thereof may
appoint special police officers when deemed necessary.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 30.04  DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the City Marshal to see that all the ordinances of
the city are enforced. He or she shall report to the City Council any violation
of any of the city ordinances, and everything occurring within or without the
limits of the city, which, in his or her opinion, is detrimental to the health,
safety or good order of the city. He or she shall, at all times, be subject to
the order of the City Council, and perform such additional duties as the
Council may at times by ordinance or resolution provide.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 30.05  SALARIES.
   The salary of all city officers, both elective and appointive, shall be in
such amount as the City Council may by resolution, by-law, or ordinance
provide.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 30.06  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   A special meeting of the City Council may be called by the City Clerk, upon
request made by any of the members of the City Council. When the Clerk has been
requested to call such meeting, it shall be his or her duty to cause notice in
writing to be given to each of the members of the City Council in the city, at
the time, of the place of such meeting, and the subject for which it is called;
and no other business shall be transacted at such meeting than that for which
it is called. Such notice must be given to each member of the City Council at
least five hours before the time for such meeting, unless an emergency exists.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 30.07  FORM OF GOVERNMENT; MEETINGS; SALARIES.
   The form of government for the city is the City Council form. The regular
meetings of the City Council shall be held monthly at time and date as set by
the City Council. The salaries of the Mayor and Alderman of the city shall be
as set by ordinance from time to time. The administrative and bookkeeping
functions of the city shall be vested in the Office of the City Finance
Officer.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 30.08  REGISTRATION OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   All warrants upon the City Finance Officer or that have been issued
and have remained unpaid or that may be hereafter issued shall be paid in order
of their presentation.
   (B)   The City Finance Officer shall keep a warrant register, in which
register shall be show, in columns arranged for that purpose, the number, date
and amount of each warrant presented, the name of the person to whom the
warrant was issued, the name of the person presenting the same, the date
payment is made, and the amount of interest and the total amount paid thereon.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Finance Officer, upon the
presentation of any city warrant for payment, if there be no funds in the City
Treasury to pay the same, to enter said warrant in his or her warrant register
and he or she shall endorse thereon “registered for payment” with the date of
such registration, and shall sign such endorsement, and it shall thereafter
draw interest at the rate of 7% per annum.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the City Finance Officer, as soon as funds are
received sufficient for the payment of first in order of the warrants on the
warrant register, to notify the owner or holder thereof, by notice published in
the official paper of the city for two successive weeks, or by mailing, that
funds are on hand to pay such warrant or warrants, and that the same will be
paid on presentation thereof, and that interest thereon shall cease from and
after the date of completion of such publication, or ten days after notice is
given to the holder or owner by mail.
   (E)   If the City Finance Officer shall fail to enter on the warrant
register in the order of its presentation, when presented thereof, any warrant
as provided in this chapter he or she shall be liable for his or her official
bond to each and every person, the person for hire or promotion or a limitation
of physical capabilities unrelated to one’s ability to acquire, rent and
maintain property. PHYSICAL LIMITATION includes, but is not limited to,
blindness or partial sightedness, deafness or hearing impairment, muteness,
partial or total absence of physical member, speech impairment and motor
impairment.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
CHAPTER 31:  FAIR HOUSING BOARD
Section
   
31.01   General provisions
   
31.02   Complaints
   
31.03   Investigation by Commission
   
31.04   Findings
   
31.05   Appeal
   
31.06   Quorum
   
31.07   Rules
   
31.08   Minutes
§ 31.01  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   To effectuate the policy of the city set forth, there is created a Fair
Housing Board, which may act to disseminate information, to cooperate with
groups or persons interested in similar objectives, to conduct public meetings
and hearings, to mitigate and conciliate in instances of alleged
discrimination, and to initiate and hear complaints alleging discrimination
with such investigation and inquiry as may reasonably appear necessary.
   (A)   The membership of the Board shall be composed of the members of the
governing body of which the members’ term on the Board shall coincide with
their term of public office.
   (B)   In the hearing of verified complaints, the Board will have the power
and authority to subpoena and examine witnesses, to administer oaths, take
sworn testimony, and require the production for examination of relevant books
or papers and to take such affirmative action as in the judgment of the Board
will effectuate its purposes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.02  COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Procedure for filing complaints. Any person claiming to be aggrieved
by a discriminatory or unfair housing practice may make, sign and file with the
Board a verified, written complaint which shall state the name and address of
the person or agency alleged to have committed the discriminatory or unfair
housing practice of which complained, shall set forth the facts upon which the
complaint is based, and shall contain such other information as may be required
by the Commission.
   (B)   Time for filing complaint. Any complaint filed under this chapter
shall be so filed within six months after the alleged discriminatory or unfair
housing practice has occurred.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.03  INVESTIGATION BY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Conference or conciliation to eliminate unfair practice. After the
filing of a verified complaint, a true copy thereof shall be served by
certified mail to the person against whom the complaint is filed. A member of
the Fair Housing Board or a duly authorized agent shall then make a prompt
investigation thereof and, if such investigating official determines that
probable cause exists to support the allegations of the complaint, the
investigating official shall immediately endeavor to eliminate such
discriminatory or unfair housing practice by conference or conciliation.
   (B)   Notice to respondent to answer complaint; time for answer. In case of
failure satisfactorily to settle a complaint by conference or conciliation, or
in advance thereof if in the opinion of the investigating official
circumstances so warrant, the officials may issue and cause to be served a
written notice, together with a copy of such complaint, as the same may have
been amended, requiring the person, hereafter referred to as respondent, to
anser the charges of such complaint in writing within ten days after the date
of such notice or within such extended time as the investigating official may
allow.
   (C)   Notice to answer complaint after investigating official’s report; time
for hearing. When the investigating official is satisfied that further endeavor
to settle a complaint by conference or conciliation will be futile, the
official shall report the same to the Board. If the Board determines that the
circumstances warrant, it shall issue and cause to be served a written notice
requiring the respondent to answer the charges of such complaint at a hearing
to be set within a reasonable period of time before the Board, and at a time
and place to be specified in such notice.
   (D)   Respondent’s answer and appearing at hearing. The respondent may file
a written verified answer to the complaint, and may appear at the hearing in
person, with or without counsel, and submit testimony.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.04  FINDINGS.
   (A)   Finding of discriminatory or unfair practice; affirmative action
required. If, upon taking into consideration all the evidence at a hearing, the
Board shall find that the respondent has engaged in or is engaging in, any
discriminatory or unfair housing practice as defined above, the Board shall
state its findings of fact and recommendations to the parties and take such
affirmative action as in the judgment of the Board will effectuate its purpose.
   (B)   Finding of no discriminatory or unfair practice; dismissal of
complaint. If, upon taking into consideration all of the evidence at the
hearing, the Board finds that the respondent has not engaged in any such
discriminatory or unfair housing practice, the Board shall state its findings
of fact and shall issue and cause to be served an order on the complainant and
the respondent dismissing the complaint.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.05  APPEAL.
   All decisions of the Board shall be subject to appeal under the same
conditions and in the manner provided under SDCL §§ 1-26-30 through 1-26-37.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.06  QUORUM.
   All official actions of the Board shall be concurred in by a quorum of the
total membership of the Board.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.07  RULES.
   The Board shall establish rules to govern, expedite and effectuate the
procedure established by SDCL Chapter 20-13.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.08  MINUTES.
   The Board shall keep the minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be filed in the office of the Board and shall be public record.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 32:  POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   Agreement
   
32.02   Legal basis
   
32.03   General law enforcement services defined
   
32.04   Delivery of services
   
32.05   Resources
   
32.06   Liability
   
32.07   Personnel
   
32.08   Law Enforcement Advisory Board
   
32.09   Fees
   
32.10   Non-accessibility hold harmless
§ 32.01  AGREEMENT.
   The county and its Sheriff agree to provide general law enforcement services
to the city, and the city agrees to engage the county through its Sheriff to
provide such service in accordance with and subject to the terms of this
agreement. The written terms and provisions of this contract shall supersede
all prior verbal statements of any representative of the county and such
statements shall not be effective or be construed as entering into, forming a
part of, or altering in any manner whatsoever, this contract or the contract
documents.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.02  LEGAL BASIS.
   This agreement is authorized by the provisions of SDCL Chapters 3-1 through
3-24.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.03  GENERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICES DEFINED.
   General law enforcement services consist of patrol and investigation and all
auxiliary and technical service now produced by the Sheriff’s Department in
support of patrol and investigation. All references to general law enforcement
services contained in this agreement are references only to services that shall
be delivered under the terms of this agreement.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.04  DELIVERY OF SERVICES.
   (A)   Service area. The Sheriff shall provide general law enforcement
services within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Enforcement responsibilities. The Sheriff or deputy shall enforce
state statutes, county ordinances, and ordinances of the city that are of the
same type and nature as ordinances of the county enforced by the Sheriff. The
Sheriff shall not be required to assume any other enforcement duty or function
not consistent with those customarily performed by the Sheriff under the
Charter of the county and the statutes of this state.
   (C)   Quantity of service. The Sheriff and deputies shall periodically
patrol the city limits and shall provide 16-2/3 hours of service per month
within the community. In the event additional services are provided beyond 16-
2/3 hours, the additional services shall be at a rate of $25 per hour. As a
part of the service to be provided, the Sheriff’s Office shall serve
individuals located within the city limits and against whom the city has taken
action at no additional cost to the city.
   (D)   How delivered. The Sheriff, under the advisement of the Advisory Board
and the city, shall determine the most appropriate manner of providing law
enforcement services to the city.
   (E)   Reporting. The Sheriff shall provide to the city a monthly report of
activities generated as a result of this contract. This report shall include
response times and the number of calls for service, reported crimes, arrests,
crimes cleared by arrest, traffic citations, court appearances and items of
recovery.
   (F)   Service management. The planning, organization, scheduling, direction
and supervision of the Sheriff’s personnel and all other matters incident to
the delivery of general law enforcement services to the city shall be as
determined by the Sheriff. The Sheriff shall retain exclusive authority over
the activities of his or her personnel working in the city.
   (G)   Responsiveness. The Sheriff shall give prompt consideration to all
requests of the city regarding the delivery of general law enforcement
services. The Sheriff shall make every effort to comply with these requests if
they are consistent with good law enforcement practices. Special duties such as
social events will be allowed as long as written notice is given to the Sheriff
by the City Council five working days prior to the event so that it can be fit
into the department scheduling requirements.
   (H)   Dispute resolution. Any conflict between parties regarding the extent
or manner of performance of the general law enforcement services delivered to
the city shall be resolved by the Sheriff, whose decision shall be final and
conclusive.
   (I)   Coordination. The city and the Sheriff shall each designate a specific
individual and alternatives to make or receive requests and to confer upon
matters concerning the delivery of general law enforcement services to the
city.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.05  RESOURCES.
   (A)   County responsibilities. Except as otherwise stipulated, the county
shall furnish all labor, equipment, facilities and supplies required to provide
general law enforcement services to the city.
   (B)   City responsibilities. The city shall pay the fees required as set
forth in §
32.09.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.06  LIABILITY.
   (A)   County. The county shall assume liability for, defend against and
secure the city from all costs or damages for injury to person or property
caused by the negligence or intentional misconduct of the Sheriff’s personnel
in providing or failing to provide general law enforcement services to the
city.
   (B)   City. The city shall assume liability for, defend against and exempt
the county from all costs or damages for injury to person or property caused by
the city.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.07  PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Employee status. All persons employed by the Sheriff in providing
general law enforcement services to the city shall be county officers or
employees, and shall not have any benefit, status or right of city employment.
   (B)   Payment. The city shall not be liable for the direct payment of
salaries, wages or other compensation to the county officers or employees
providing general law enforcement services to the city.
   (C)   Indemnity. The city shall not be liable for indemnity to any county
officer or employee for injury or sickness arising out of his or her employment
in providing general law enforcement services to the city.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.08  LAW ENFORCEMENT ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The County Law Enforcement Advisory Board, herein created, is hereby
designated by the county and the above named municipality, as the formal forum
for discussion of the execution of this contract and similar contracts with
other municipalities in the county. The County Law Enforcement Advisory Board
hereinafter will be known as “the Board.”
   (B)   The Board shall consist of one representative from the governing body
of the above named municipality; each of the governing bodies of municipalities
in the contracts, and one representative of the Board of County Commissioners,
with the Sheriff and States Attorney or his or her designate, acting as an ex-
officio, non-voting member and Treasurer of said Board.
      (1)   On the Board, the representative from each governing unit in the
contract will have one vote and majority vote shall rule. The duly elected,
qualified and acting States Attorney for Kingsbury County, South Dakota, shall
act as a permanent Chairperson of said Board with a vote only in the event that
a vote by the members of said Board should result in a tie.
      (2)   The Board shall meet monthly at a time designated by the said Board
and for special meetings as may be required by the Chairperson of said Board.
   (C)   The Board, on the recommendations of the Sheriff, shall assist in
formulating the overall policies and procedures of the Department.
   (D)   The Board shall be created for a period of one year with continuation
for any further period based on an evaluation of services provided and consent
of each unit of government a party to the agreement.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to advise the Sheriff in
the following areas:
      (1)   Standards for quality and quantity of service;
      (2)   Department operating policies and procedures;
      (3)   Budget review;
      (4)   Establishing law enforcement priorities; and
      (5)   Levels of service to participating municipalities.
   (F)   In addition, the Board will provide a forum for the discussion of this
program and for identifying, discussing and resolving problems and disputes.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.09  FEES.
   (A)   Total sum. The city shall pay the county the total sum of $5,000 in 12
equal monthly installments of $416.67 for general law enforcement services
delivered during the terms of this agreement. The city shall advance the first
three monthly payments as provided herein.
   (B)   Computation. This total sum shall not include expenses attributable to
the services or facilities normally provided to all cities within the county as
part of enforcement duties and functions customarily performed by the Sheriff
under the Charter of the county and the statutes of this state.
   (C)   Adjustment. For contract renewal, the county may adjust the total sum
in accordance with changes in the costs of providing general law enforcement
services. The county shall notify the city in writing of each adjustment. The
adjusted rate shall become effective on the first of the next calendar year
following the date of notice.
   (D)   Billing and payment. The county shall bill the city within ten days
after the close of each calendar month for all general law enforcement services
provided during that month. The city shall pay for these services within 20
days after the date of the county’s billing.
   (E)   Delinquency. If the city does not make payment within 30 days after
the date due, the county may terminate this agreement. The city shall be liable
for general law enforcement services rendered to the time of termination.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
§ 32.10  NON-ACCESSIBILITY HOLD HARMLESS.
   The services of the county to be performed hereunder, shall not be assigned,
sublet or transferred to any other corporation or organization without written
approval of the city.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1999)
CHAPTER 33:  TAX AND FINANCE
Section
Sales and Service Tax and Use Tax
   
33.01   Imposing a tax
   
33.02   Enactment of tax
   
33.03   Use tax
   
33.04   Collection
   
33.05   Interpretation
 
   
33.99   Penalty
SALES AND SERVICE TAX AND USE TAX
§ 33.01  IMPOSING A TAX.
   By this subchapter, the city does hereby impose municipal retail sales and
use tax pursuant to the powers granted to the municipality by the state, by
SDCL § 10-52 entitled Uniform Municipal Non-Ad Valorem Tax Law, and acts
amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 291, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 33.02  ENACTMENT OF TAX.
   From and after July 1, 2011, or as early as can be imposed under the
provisions of SDCL § 10-52-9, there is hereby imposed as a municipal retail
occupational sales and service tax upon the privilege of engaging in business a
tax measured by 2% on the gross receipts of all persons engaged in business
within the jurisdiction of the city, who are subject to the State Retail
Occupational Sales and Service Tax, SDCL § 10-45 and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 291, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 33.03  USE TAX.
   In addition, there is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of use,
storage and consumption within the jurisdiction of the municipality of tangible
personal property or services purchased from and after July 1, 2011, at the
same rate as the municipal sales and service tax upon all transactions or use,
storage and consumption which are subject to the State Use Tax Act, SDCL § 10-
46, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 291, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 33.04  COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL § 10-52 and
acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue and Regulation in accordance with the same rules and regulations
applicable to the state sales tax and under such additional rules and
regulations as the Secretary of Revenue and Regulation of the state shall
lawfully prescribe.
(Ord. 291, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 33.05  INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the State Retail Occupational Sales and Service Act, SDCL §
10-45 and acts amendatory thereto and the State Use Tax, SDCL § 10-46 and acts
amendatory hereto, and that this shall be considered a similar tax except for
the rate thereof to that tax.
(Ord. 291, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
33.01 through
33.05 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned in the municipal
jail for 30 days or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, all such
collection remedies authorized by SDCL § 10-45, and acts amendatory thereto,
and SDCL § 10-46, and acts amendatory thereto are hereby authorized for the
collection of these excise taxes by the Department of Revenue and Regulation.
(Ord. 291, passed 3-7-2011)
CHAPTER 34:  POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
Affirmative Action Plan
   
34.01   Policy
   
34.02   Administration
   
34.03   Implementation
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN
§ 34.01  POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   It is the policy and the law of the city to provide equal
opportunity to all employees and applicants for employment without regard to
race, color, sex, creed, religion, ancestry, age or national origin.
      (2)   Affirmative action shall be taken to ensure the implementation of
this policy in city government employment.
      (3)   This policy and the obligation to provide equal employment
opportunity includes:
         (a)   Hiring, placement, upgrading, transfer or demotion;
         (b)   Recruitment, advertising or solicitation for employment;
         (c)   Treatment during employment;
         (d)   Rates of pay or other forms of compensation;
         (e)   Selection for training; and
         (f)   Layoff or termination.
   (B)   This document is applicable to all employees of the city. It becomes
effective upon adoption by the City Council and shall continue in effect until
a revised plan is issued.
   (C)   This policy means that:
      (1)   Everyone is encouraged to apply for jobs, seek further training,
compete for promotions and all will be afforded equal opportunity for
development, advancement and job security;
      (2)   Competition around individuals for a specific job, training or
promotion will be based on qualifications and demonstrated ability;
      (3)   Supervisors, at all levels, will insure that all actions affecting
the individual employee will be accomplished within both the spirit and the
letter of applicable equal employment opportunity guidelines; and
      (4)   All personnel responsible for these functions will plan and take
affirmative action to achieve improvements of the status of minority group
employees and women to the maximum extent possible under applicable laws and
regulations.
   (D)   This policy is designed not only to ensure against any discriminatory
practices, but is further designed to accomplish a positive, continuing and
affirmative equal employment opportunity program for all employees. Equal
employment opportunity works hand in hand with merit principles and, thus, will
provide the city with a fully integrated and highly skilled work force.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.02  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall lend the full support of its office to the
achievement of equal employment opportunity in city government.
   (B)   The Municipal Finance Officer shall serve as the city’s Equal
Employment Opportunity Officer. He or she will be responsible for ensuring that
equal employment opportunity policies are vigorously carried out at all levels.
The Municipal Finance Officer’s duties shall include, but not be limited:
implementation and evaluation of the city’s Affirmative Action Plan; advising
and providing technical assistance on equal employment opportunity at all
levels of city government as necessary; suggesting any changes necessary to
eliminate any discriminatory policies or practices; maintaining appropriate
liaisons with community groups; and development of appropriate methods to
educate supervisors and employees on equal employment opportunity.
   (C)   Each department head shall be responsible for implementing the
policies set forth in §
34.01 and shall assure that no reprisal or retaliation is taken against any
person who has filed a grievance or a formal or informal discrimination
complaint or any person who has given testimony or aided in the resolution of a
complaint.
   (D)   All supervisors shall be responsible for assuring equal employment
opportunity in all aspects and conditions of employment.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.03  IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   All recruitment effort shall emphasize that the city is an equal
opportunity employer and is making every effort to be in compliance with the
current posture of equal employment opportunity requirements.
   (B)   All selection procedures and criteria shall be nondiscriminatory and
job related to assure reliability and validity for the purpose of predicting
successful job performance and shall be reviewed as necessary to maintain this
standard.
   (C)   Job classification and the procedures for upward mobility and
promotion shall be nondiscriminatory and the requirements job related and the
same shall be reviewed as necessary to maintain this standard.
   (D)   All education and training shall be provided on a nondiscriminatory
basis to all levels of employees and there shall be an on-going program of
dissemination of equal employment opportunity information to all levels of
employees.
   (E)   Other terms and conditions of an employee’s work environment,
including, but not limited to, insurance, vacation, leave of absence, fringe
benefits and social, professional and athletic opportunities shall comply with
the current posture of the equal employment opportunity laws and requirements.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE
Section
Garbage Disposal Site
   
50.01   Closing city garbage disposal site
Collection of Solid Waste
   
50.15   Declaration of policy
   
50.16   Definitions
   
50.17   Administration
   
50.18   Standards and regulations
   
50.19   Prohibited activities and nuisances
   
50.20   Enforcement
   
50.21   Disconnection for late payment
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GARBAGE DISPOSAL SITE
§ 50.01  CLOSING CITY GARBAGE DISPOSAL SITE.
   (A)   (1)   The existing city garbage disposal site located in the NW
Quarter of 27-109-54, Kingsbury County, South Dakota, constitutes a nuisance
which must be abated.
      (2)   Therefore, said site is hereby closed to all disposal of any sort,
and all dumping is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Any person who dumps any garbage, trash, refuse or rubbish on said
site shall be in violation of this section.
(Ord. 163, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
50.99
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
§ 50.15  DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   To provide a municipal system for collection and disposal of solid waste
produced within the city for the preservation of the public health, welfare and
safety.
(Ord. 161, passed - -)
§ 50.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL.  The City Council of Oldham, South Dakota.
   BULKY REFUSE.  Includes items or rubbish either too large or too heavy to be
loaded in refuse collection vehicles with safety and convenience by refuse
collectors with the equipment therefor.
   GARBAGE.  Includes putrescible animal or vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, serving or consumption of food.
   REFUSE. Includes unwanted or discarded waste materials in a solid or semi-
liquid state, consisting of garbage, rubbish or a combination thereof.
   RESIDENCE.  A dwelling unit such as a home, trailer or multi-family dwelling
of four or less units not including hotels or motels. Each unit of a multi-
family dwelling shall be considered a separate dwelling unit for purposes of
collection and billing.
   RUBBISH.  Includes non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of combustible
and non-combustible waste materials from residential, apartment, commercial,
industrial and institutional establishments, commonly referred to as trash and
rubbish shall not include yard wastes and/or yard trimmings.
   SOLID WASTE.  Refuse, rubbish, garbage, trash and bulky refuse.
   TRASH.  Includes earth, soil, wood, dead trees and branches, clay, sand,
bricks, plaster, cement, chips, shavings, rocks, sticks, old papers and
magazines, paper or wood cartons, rags, sawdust, old clothing and all other
combustible materials of a like nature which are not included in the definition
of garbage.
   YARD TRIMMINGS.  Grass clippings, leaves, mulch and related residue.
(Ord. 161, passed - -; Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.17  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Responsible agency: the City Council of Oldham, South Dakota.
   (B)   Functions and powers of the City Council:
      (1)   To contract for disposal of garbage, refuse, non-bulky trash and
rubbish. It shall not be required to accept the lowest bid but the Council may
accept contractors it feels are best qualified;
      (2)   To terminate contract upon the failure of contractor to conform to
this subchapter after hearing;
      (3)   To regulate method of conveyance of solid waste and to approve all
vehicles used;
      (4)   To charge for and supervise all collection and removal; and
      (5)   To cancel any charge for collection if it feels collection is not
necessary.
(Ord. 161, passed - -)
§ 50.18  STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All persons residing in a single-family dwelling and all owners of
multiple-family dwellings containing three residential units or less shall be
billed for the garbage collection services provided for in this subchapter by
the city. The charges for collection services shall be as follows:
      (1)   Single residential regular service; monthly charge: $12; and
      (2)   Administrative fee to the city; monthly charge per residential
service: $0.25.
   (B)   The contract holder shall separately contract with, bill and collect
from industrial, commercial and public establishments as well as all multiple-
family dwelling units containing four or more units for collection services
rendered.
   (C)   The contract holder shall make refuse collection one time weekly for
residential wastes and as contracted with multiple-family dwellings and
business establishments. Multiple-family dwellings and business establishment
contracts require frequent enough pickup to avoid a health hazard or unsightly
accumulation of trash. He or she will provide for an acceptable disposal of all
wastes collected.
   (D)   Weeds, dry grass, dead trees, tin cans, abandoned autos and auto
bodies and similar material upon any public or private property are declared a
nuisance and shall be disposed of under this subchapter.
   (E)   Cultivated and useful grasses and pastures are not nuisances except
when necessary firebreak requirements are not observed within seven days’
notice.
   (F)   One or more suitable garbage cans, of galvanized metal, or a
comparable material, not exceeding 30 gallons each, into which can be placed
all the refuse that accumulates on the premises, will be placed at each pickup
location by the resident. Each container shall be watertight, have tight-
fitting cover, suitable handles and be maintained in a sanitary condition and
in good repair. The garbage can shall not contain more than 60 pounds of
refuse.
   (G)   Garbage can pickup points shall be at curbside only.
   (H)   The City Council may grant an exclusive contract to collect, haul and
dispose of all solid wastes subject to the right of any resident to haul his or
her own trash and bulky refuse.
   (I)   All vehicles used for the collection of solid wastes shall be kept in
clean and sanitary condition at all times; in good and safe operating condition
and shall be leakproof and protected against spilling or littering.
   (J)   Grass clippings, leaves and mulch and related yard waste shall not be
required to be collected by the contract holder and shall not be included
within other rubbish or trash so as to require its collection.
(Ord. 161, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES AND NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, for the purpose of private hauling of trash and
bulky refuse, for any person not authorized by the City Council, to haul or
drive a vehicle with trash or bulky refuse through the streets except in a
vehicle properly covered so as to eliminate spilling and blowing of said trash
and/or bulky refuse.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance for any solid
waste material to accumulate more than 24 hours after notification by the
health officer.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance to bury or attempt to bury any
solid waste material within city limits, except where material is used as a
soil conditioner or mulch in the cultivation of plants and then only if the
waste is not a nuisance to surrounding residents.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance to deposit any
solid waste materials on any public or private property other than certain
designated and exempted wastes for which special areas have been set aside by
the Commission.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance to fail to
clean any premises, place all materials in containers and place containers in
the proper position for collection.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance to burn
garbage, refuse or trash within the city limits.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance to allow the
scattering of solid waste upon public road rights-of-way.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance to burn within
the city limits, except by incineration, with incinerators, which meet air
pollution standards established by the State Air Pollution Control Regulations.
The City Fire Department shall be called to extinguish all fires burning within
the city limits. If it is deemed that a fire was started intentionally, the
person responsible for starting the fire shall be charged and responsible for
the cost of extinguishing as determined by the City Fire Department.
(Ord. 161, passed - -; Ord. 215, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administrative proceedings.
      (1)   If a nuisance exists, a notice of violation shall be issued to the
offender, to the concerned property owner, and to the person in possession of
the property whereon the offense was committed, directing abatement.
      (2)   Notice may be served upon the offender, the concerned property
owner, and the person in possession of the property whereon the offense was
committed by personal service, by registered mail, or by posting notice in a
conspicuous place within the city limits, and by publication for a period of
one week in the legal newspaper of the city.
      (3)   Within 14 days after completion of the notice herein above
mentioned in division (A)(2) above, appeal may be filed by the offender, the
concerned property owner, or the person in possession of the property whereon
the offense was committed with the City Council. Within 15 days after filing,
appeal shall be heard before the City Council. All persons who fail to protest
shall be deemed to have waived all objections.
      (4)   Abatement shall be accomplished within 14 days after notification
of the decision of the City Council, unless the offender, concerned property
owner or the person in possession of the property whereon the offense was
committed can show cause why more time is needed. Notification of the City
Council shall be mailed by registered or certified mail.
      (5)   If the abatement is not completed within the time herein above
mentioned in division (A)(4) above, the city shall abate the nuisance and file
an account with the City Council, which account shall specify the sum expended
in abating the nuisance.
      (6)   At least seven days after filing of the account herein above
mentioned in division (A)(6) above, the City Council shall hold a hearing.
Notice announcing the time of the City Council meeting shall be mailed by
registered or certified mail to the concerned property owner, to the person in
possession and to the offender at least seven days prior to said hearing.
      (7)   The City Council shall hear the matter and if the account is
accepted, the amount thereof shall become a lien upon the property whereon the
offense was committed.
      (8)   Abandoned junk cars, derelict and scrap metals considered by the
Council to be a nuisance, will be removed to an appropriate marshaling site as
provided for in SDCL Chapter 32-36, § 1-11.
      (9)   If a contractor fails to perform to the contract or this
subchapter, the City Council may, at its option and after a hearing, terminate
the contract upon ten days’ notice and let a new contract.
   (B)   The contractor performance bonds shall be in an amount of not less
than $4,000.
   (C)   Insurance requirement for collection contractors.
      (1)   Bodily injury: $50,000 one person; $700,000 each accident.
      (2)   Property damage: $50,000.
(Ord. 161, passed - -)
§ 50.21  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the city official in charge of utility
billing.  This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
(Ord. 161, passed - -)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §
50.01 shall be punishable by confinement of not to exceed 30 days, a fine not
to exceed $100, or by both such confinement and fine.
   (C)   Violation of §§
50.15 through
50.21 is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $100 or by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each
violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 161, passed - -; Ord. 163, passed - -)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWER
Section
   
51.01   Unlawful discharge into sewers
§ 51.01  UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE INTO SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff,  subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewers.
   (B)   The city shall initiate a sanitary sewer inspection and take any
corrective action necessary eliminate the discharge of any existing clear water
connections into the sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   Any connection to the sanitary sewer system shall be made by and with
the consent of the city a shall pass the inspection requirements, rules and
regulate that may be promulgated from time to time by the city.
   (D)   Any willful and persistent violation of division (A) above shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as such, and in addition
thereto, city shall deem such violation a nuisance and shall have necessary
power and authority to abate the same forthwith without further notice.
(Ord. 200, passed 11-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   SNOW EMERGENCIES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS; TOWING
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Police to direct traffic
   
70.03   Obedience to police
   
70.04   Exemptions to authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.05   Traffic signs and signals
   
70.06   Obedience to traffic signs and signals
   
70.07   Interference with, or unauthorized signs and signals
   
70.08   Pedestrians’ rights and rules
   
70.09   Pedestrians’ right-of-way
   
70.10   Pedestrians’ rights and duties at controlled intersections
   
70.11   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
70.12   Operation of vehicle
   
70.13   Overtaking a vehicle
   
70.14   Overtaken vehicle
   
70.15   Right turns
   
70.16   Left turns
   
70.17   U-turns
   
70.18   Backing
   
70.19   Starting
   
70.20   Right-of-way
   
70.21   Motor vehicles left unattended
   
70.22   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
70.23   Crossing fire hose
   
70.24   Duty to stop in event of accident
   
70.25   Projecting loads
   
70.26   Muffler
   
70.27   Brakes and signaling device
   
70.28   Signals
   
70.29   Head lamps; sunset and sunrise
   
70.30   Speed
   
70.31   Weight of the vehicles and loads
   
70.32   Riding bicycles on sidewalk prohibited
   
70.33   Lights on bicycles
   
70.34   Coasters, roller skates and similar devices
   
70.35   Riding on outside of vehicle
   
70.36   Reckless driving
   
70.37   Exhibition driving
   
70.38   Procedure in case of traffic violations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.  Vehicles of the Fire Department, and such
police vehicles and ambulances as are designated or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   BUSINESS SECTION.  Blocks.
   CROSSWALKS.  The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation of curb and property lines at intersections, or by any other
portion of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or
other markings on the surface.
   CURB.  The extreme edge or lateral boundary of a roadway whether marked by
curbing or not so marked.
   DOUBLE PARKING.  The standing of a vehicle upon a street at the rear of
another vehicle which is parked diagonally at the curb or the standing of a
vehicle upon a street alongside and parallel to another vehicle which is parked
parallel at the curb.
   INTERSECTION.  The part of a street where a street joins another at an
angle, whether or not it crosses the other street, and shall include the full
width of the street between the curb lines, extended, of the intersecting
streets.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.  All signs, markings or signs, not
inconsistent with title, placed or erected by authority of the governing body
of official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of guiding, directing, warning
or regulating traffic.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   PARKING.  The standing of a vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon a
roadway, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading, or in obedience to traffic regulations or
traffic signs or signals.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.  Every road or driveway not open to use of the
public for purposes of vehicle travel.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate use of the street.
   ROADWAY.  The portion of the street between the regular established curb
lines or that part devoted to vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
   STREET.  Every way set apart for public travel, except foot paths.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians and vehicles while using any street for purpose of
travel.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, except that all sections
of this title concerning operation of vehicles and rules of the road shall
apply to bicycles and they shall be deemed vehicle for the purpose of these
sections.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 70.02  POLICE TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department of this city to enforce the
provisions of this title. Officers of the Police Department are hereby
authorized to direct all traffic either in person or by means of visible or
audible signal in conformance with the provisions of title, provided that in
the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the Police or Fire Department may direct traffic, as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of title.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 70.03  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04  EXEMPTIONS TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of title regulating the movement, parking and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles as defined in
title while the operator of such vehicle is operating the same in an emergency
in the necessary performance of public duties.
   (B)   This exemption shall not, however, protect the driver of any such
vehicle from the consequence of a reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 70.05  TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   The governing body shall be resolution determine and designate the character
or type of all official traffic signs and signals, all such signs and signals
to be uniform through the city, as far as is practicable, provided that all
official traffic signs and signals, now erected and in operation are hereby
designated official traffic signs and signals.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 70.06  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disobey the instructions of any
official sign or signal upon the streets placed in accordance with the
provisions of title, unless otherwise directed by a police officer; and no
provision of title for which signs are required shall be enforceable against an
alleged violator if, at the time and place of alleged violation, the sign
herein required is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07  INTERFERENCE WITH, OR UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, move,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. It shall be
unlawful for any person to place or maintain or to display upon or in view of
any street any unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles any official traffic sign or signal, or which
attempts to direct the movement of traffic. Every such prohibited sign, signal
or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and the Chief of Police
is hereby empowered to remove the same, or to cause it to be removed without
notice.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08  PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHTS AND RULES.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to go from one side of the street to
the other except at right angle at regular crosswalks at the end of a block
upon any street in the business section or on any through street, and shall use
the right half of crosswalk when crossing said street.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09  PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of any vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within any unmarked crosswalk at the end of a block, or
entrance to alley, except at intersections where the movement of traffic is
being regulated by police officers or traffic-control signals. Whenever any
vehicle has stopped at a cross walk or intersection to permit a pedestrian to
cross a roadway, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any other vehicle
approaching from the rear to overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10  PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHTS AND DUTIES AT CONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS.
   At intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or
by traffic or police officer, a pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully proceeding directly ahead on a “GO” signal and the operator
of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians crossing or those who
have started to cross the street, at all time when a “STOP” signal has been
given to vehicular traffic.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11  BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to board or alight from any vehicle
while such vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12  OPERATION OF VEHICLE.
   Upon all streets, except one-way streets, the operator of a vehicle shall
drive the same upon the right half of the street and as near as practicable to
the right-hand curb.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13  OVERTAKING A VEHICLE.
   The operator of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle approaching from the
rear shall give way to the right in favor of the overtaking vehicle on suitable
and audible signal being given by the driver of the overtaking vehicle and
shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by
the overtaking vehicle. No person shall drive any vehicle at any unnecessarily
slow rate of speed so as to hinder and retard traffic.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14  OVERTAKEN VEHICLE.
   The operator of a vehicle upon a street about to be overtaken and passed by
another vehicle approaching from the rear shall give way to the right in favor
of the overtaking vehicle on suitable and audible signal being given by the
driver of the overtaking vehicle and shall not increase the speed of his or her
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. No person shall
drive any vehicle at any unnecessarily slow rate of speed so as to hinder and
retard traffic.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15  RIGHT TURNS.
   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the right at an intersection
or into an alley or driveway shall turn the corner as near the right-hand curb
as practicable.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16  LEFT TURNS.
   At intersections, an operator of a vehicle intending to turn into a street
to the left shall make what is commonly known as an INSIDE LEFT TURN, subject
to the following regulations: such vehicle shall go diagonally across the
intersection, keeping as close as practicable to the center of the
intersection, and reaching the right-hand side of the street so being entered
to the left as directly as practicable.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17  U-TURNS.
   No vehicle shall cross over from the right side of the street to the left
side of the street, or make a complete turn around, or turn 180 degrees, on any
street or avenue except upon an intersection of one street or avenue with
another. No vehicle shall be permitted to make a complete turn around, or turn
of 180 degrees at the intersection with other streets or avenues where official
traffic signs indicate such is prohibited, or may hereafter be erected.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18  BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful to back a vehicle around a corner at an intersection,
or into an intersection of public streets. No vehicle shall be backed without
ample warning first having been given and, while backing, care must be
exercised not to injure person or vehicle, or to block traffic.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19  STARTING.
   A standing vehicle about to start shall give moving vehicles the right-of-
way, and the driver thereof shall give ample warning before so starting.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20  RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Ambulances, Fire and Police Department vehicles when responding to or
returning from any emergency call, and funeral processions shall have the
right-of-way over all other traffic and when the operator of such a vehicle on
such a call shall give audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle or the
same is apparent the operator of every other vehicle shall immediately drive
his or her vehicle as near as possible and parallel to the right-hand curb of
the street, clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such
position until such emergency vehicle or funeral procession shall have passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer. Vehicles traveling upon a
through street shall have the right-of-way over and as to vehicles traveling
upon all streets intersecting therewith. Except when traveling on a through
street, every operator of a vehicle approaching the intersection of street
shall grant and relinquish the right-of-way at such intersection to any vehicle
approaching such intersection form his or her right. The operator of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, private driveway or building into a street shall grant
and relinquish the right-of-way to vehicles traveling upon the street.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions herein contained, whenever
traffic officers are stationed at any intersection, they shall have full power
to regulate traffic.
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle emerging from any alley, private driveway or
building into a street shall grant and relinquish the right-of-way to vehicles
traveling upon the street.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21  MOTOR VEHICLES LEFT UNATTENDED.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand on any street unattended without first setting the brakes
thereon and stopping the motor of said vehicle.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22  FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle other than one on
official business to follow closer than 500 feet of any fire vehicle traveling
in response to a fire alarm, or to drive into or stop any vehicle within the
block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to the fire alarm.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23  CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in charge.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24  DUTY TO STOP IN EVENT OF ACCIDENT.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury or
death to any person or damage to property shall immediately stop such vehicle
at the scene of such accident and shall give his or her name and address and
registration number of his or her vehicle to the person struck of the driver of
occupant of any vehicle collided with, and shall render to any person injured
in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying of such person
to a physician or surgeon for medical treatment, if is it apparent and shall
forthwith report the accident to the Police Department stating the place of
accident and the kind and the kind and extent of the damage caused.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25  PROJECTING LOADS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street in the city with any load
or part of a load projecting more than four feet beyond the rear end or front
end, or more than two feet beyond the sides of the body or carrying part of
said vehicle, unless there be attached to the extreme ends and sides of such
projecting load some warning sign or signal plainly discernible to other
drivers and clearly indicating the projecting parts of such load.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26  MUFFLER.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle unless such motor vehicle is
provided with a muffler, which at all times shall be kept closed so that the
exhaust is effectively muffled. It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle
in such a manner as to emit unnecessary or excessive smoke from the motor of
such vehicle.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27  BRAKES AND SIGNALING DEVICE.
   Every motor vehicle shall be provided with adequate brakes in good working
order and sufficient to control such motor vehicle at all times when same is in
use, and an adequate horn or other device for signaling.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28 SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall give timely warning by signaling with
the hand or in some other plainly discernible manner indicating the intention
to slow up, turn or stop.
   (B)   The signal given to indicate the intention of a driver to slow up,
turn or stop must be plainly discernible from the rear of such vehicle.
   (C)   Hand signals used shall be as follows:
      (1)   Left arm straight out for turn in direction pointed;
      (2)   Left arm pointed upward for turn in direction opposite to such arm;
and
      (3)   Left arm pointed down for stopping or suddenly checking speed.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.29  HEAD LAMPS; SUNSET AND SUNRISE.
   A vehicle shall, while in motion during the period from a half hour after
sunset to half an hour before sunrise, display such lamps as are mandated by
the laws of the state.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.30  SPEED.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish speed zones within the city, which
speed zones shall be conspicuously posted.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the of any vehicle to exceed the posted speed
limit. Unless otherwise posted, the driver of any vehicle shall not exceed 20
mph on any street or 15 mph in any alley.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31  WEIGHT OF THE VEHICLES AND LOADS.
   No person shall drive or operate any vehicle upon the streets of the city,
the gross weight of which, including the load, or size of which do not comply
with the requirements of the state law governing such vehicle.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32  RIDING BICYCLES ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride any bicycle on the sidewalks, footpaths or lengthwise
of crosswalks in the city, and shall ride said bicycle as near the right-hand
curb as may be practicable, and in such manner as not to interfere with
pedestrians or heavier or faster traveling vehicles. The rules of the road as
set forth in title shall be the same to govern bicycle riding.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33  LIGHTS ON BICYCLES.
   No person shall ride any bicycle upon the streets or alleys in the night
time without displaying a lighted light upon such bicycle which shall be so
placed as to give warning to others and enable the rider to see at least 20
feet ahead.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34  COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on roller skates, or riding in or by
means of any coaster, toy vehicle or similar device, to go upon any roadway
except while crossing a street or crosswalk.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35  RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the running board of
fenders of any motor vehicle which the vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36  RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person driving a vehicle upon the streets or alleys of the city
carelessly and heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or
without due caution and circumspection or at a speed or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger other persons or property, will be guilty of
reckless driving.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37  EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a vehicle within the limits of the city in such a
manner that creates or causes unnecessary engine noise or tire squeal, skid or
slide upon acceleration or stopping; or that simulates racing; or that causes
the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway, shall be guilty of
exhibition driving.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38  PROCEDURE IN CASE OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   In case of violation of traffic ordinances of the city, the following
special rules of procedure shall govern.
   (A)   Manner of arrest. Except in cases of driving while intoxicated or
under the influence of intoxicating liquor or any stupefying or exhilarating
drug, and except in the more serious and aggravated cases of speeding or
careless and reckless driving, and except when reasonable necessary to secure
appearance, a person charged with violation of a traffic ordinance of the city
by a police officer need not be arrested in the regular manner, but may first
be given an opportunity after notice to appear voluntarily to answer for such
traffic violation.
   (B)   Notice to appear. A person charged with violation of a traffic
ordinance by notice shall be given a notice to appear before a magistrate at
the time or within the time stated in such notice, and that in event of a
failure to do so, a warrant will be issued for his or her arrest. The violator
shall be charged by means of the appropriate uniform traffic citation of the
state.
   (C)   Appearance. A person who has received a notice of traffic violation
through the police shall at or within the time specified in such notice answer
to the charge set forth therein, according to the procedure of that court, and
if he or she shall fail to appear as herein provided, a warrant may issue for
his or her arrest, as in other cases or violation of ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of any of the provisions of title shall be punishable of a fine
of not exceeding $100 or by confinement in jail for a period of not exceeding
30 days, or by both such fine and confinement.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 71:  SNOW EMERGENCIES
Section
   
71.01   Snow emergency
   
71.02   Designation of representative
   
71.03   Parking prohibited
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  SNOW EMERGENCY.
   A snow emergency shall be in effect any time there is two or more inches of
snow on the public streets, or when the authorized representative of the city
finds that falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create conditions causing
potential dangerous driving conditions.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 71.02  DESIGNATION OF REPRESENTATIVE.
   The city authorizes the Mayor to be its designated representative. In the
absence of the Mayor, the senior members of the Commission shall be the
designated representative for declaration of a snow emergency.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 71.03  PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Upon the accumulation of two inches or more of snow on the public streets or
the declaration of a snow emergency due to felling snow, sleet or freezing
rain, during the time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle on
the streets or alleys within the city as restricted or prohibited by this
chapter.
   (A)   Restrictions and prohibitions of parking under the authority of this
section shall remain in effect until the designated representative announces
the termination of the snow emergency alert or upon the street be cleared,
whichever comes first.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the automatic effectiveness of this chapter, upon two
inches of snow being falled, the notice of the snow emergency alert, or its
termination shall be made between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. by means
of a radio broadcast from KJAM radio, Madison, South Dakota. Each such
announcement shall state the time the snow emergency regulations become
effective, but in no event shall the notice be less than two hours.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall operate to prevent the
designated representative from stating in advance of 6:00 a.m. the intention to
declare a snow emergency, or after that time, nor shall anything contained
operate to prevent the designated representative from announcing through the
means set forth in this ordinance that the emergency alert has been terminated
or that none is in effect.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   The penalty for each violation of this chapter shall be $25, in the event
the vehicle is not removed within twenty 24 hours of the first citation the
owner of said vehicle shall be subject to an additional $25 for the second
offense and $50 for the third offense and each violation thereafter. Any
vehicle(s) parked in violation of this chapter may be towed at the owner’s
expense if the vehicle has not been removed within 24 hours from the issuance
of the first citation.
(Ord. 287, passed 5-3-2010)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS; TOWING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Stopping, standing and parking
   
72.02   Parking of trucks
   
72.03   Crossing into oncoming lane of traffic to park
   
72.04   Parallel and diagonal parking
   
72.05   Limited time parking, nuisance, removal of vehicles or obstructions;
cost, recovery by owner
   
72.06   Removal of vehicle for street cleaning or maintenance
Ticketing and Towing of Vehicles Improperly Parked
   
72.20   Presumption of operation
   
72.21   Standing and parking generally
   
72.22   Maximum parking limit
   
72.23   No parking; limited parking zones
   
72.24   Impoundment
   
72.25   Violation
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01  STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand or park
such vehicle in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control sign or signal:
   (A)   Within an intersection;
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Outside the first line of cars parked next to the curb, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading;
   (D)   Within 25 feet of the intersection of curb lines;
   (E)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to a fire station;
   (F)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (G)   In front of a private driveway;
   (H)   On a sidewalk; or
   (I)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  PARKING OF TRUCKS.
   All freight and stock trucks shall be parked in the city at such places only
as have been marked and designated by the City Council; provided, however, that
this section shall not apply to light delivery trucks of under 10,000 pounds
per axle delivering goods from house to house and place to place which requires
a stop or parking of but a few minutes to receive or deliver merchandise.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  CROSSING INTO ONCOMING LANE OF TRAFFIC TO PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for a vehicle to cross into the oncoming lane of
traffic when parking.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  PARALLEL AND DIAGONAL PARKING.
   No vehicle shall be parked on any street, except such vehicle be parked
parallel to the curb, headed in the direction of traffic, with curbside wheels
of the vehicle within 12 inches of the curb, and no closer than four feet to
any other vehicle front or rear, except upon those streets which have been
designated, marked or assigned for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at
the angle to the curb indicated by such marks or signs.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05  LIMITED TIME PARKING, NUISANCE, REMOVAL OF VEHICLES OR OBSTRUCTIONS;
COSTS, RECOVERY BY OWNER.
   (A)   No vehicles or other obstruction shall be allowed to stand or remain
parked unattended any street or alley within the city for more than 24 hours at
any one time. Any vehicle or other obstruction allowed to stand or remain
parked unattended on such streets for more than such a period shall be deemed
and declared and hereby is deemed and declared to be a public nuisance and any
regular or special police officer of the city is authorized and directed to
order to owner or operator of such vehicle or other obstruction to remove the
same and if said owner or operator fails or refuses to remove the same within a
reasonable time or cannot with reasonable diligence by found, said regular or
special police officer is authorized and directed to remove such vehicle or
other obstruction from said streets and take the same into his or her
possession and impound it by placing and keeping the vehicle or other
obstruction so impounded at any public garage at the expense of the owner, or
at any other place as the City Council may from time to time, by resolution,
direct. The Street Commissioner and any employees of the city engaged in street
maintenance shall, at the request of said regular or special police officer,
aid in the removal and impounding of any vehicle or other obstruction as above
provided, and may use any equipment owned by th city for that purpose.
   (B)   Any owner or person entitled to possession of a vehicle or other
property so impounded may secure possession of said vehicle or other property
by proving to the reasonable satisfaction of said regular or special police
officer that he or she is the owner or entitled to the possession thereof,
and,  if stored in a public garage, paying the storage and towing fee therefor
a sum equal to $10 for each day said vehicle or other property is impounded by
the city under this section. All sums so collected shall be paid into the City
Treasury by the collecting officer to reimburse the city for the expense of
removing and impounding and shall be credited to the General Fund.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06  REMOVAL OF VEHICLE FOR STREET CLEANING OR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner or any employee of the city engaged in the
removal of snow from the streets or the cleaning or in the repair and other
maintenance of said streets and alleys may require the owner or operator of any
vehicle or any other obstruction parked in any such street or alley to remove
the same and, if the owner or any such vehicle or other obstruction within a
reasonable time, the Street Commissioner or other employee of the city may
remove such vehicle or other obstruction to some other suitable place.
   (B)   Any owner or operator of such vehicle or other obstruction who shall
fail or refuse to remove the same within ten minutes time after being requested
to do so shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punished as provided in §
72.99.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
72.99
TICKETING AND TOWING OF VEHICLES IMPROPERLY PARKED
§ 72.20  PRESUMPTION OF OPERATION.
   In any proceeding for the violation of the terms of this subchapter, the
state registration plate shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption
that the individual in whose name said plate is registered is the lawful owner
of said vehicle and that he or she was the person who parked or caused to be
parked the vehicle illegally or in violation at the place where the violation
occurred.
(Ord. 235, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 72.21  STANDING AND PARKING GENERALLY.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-control
device, no person shall stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
except momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
   (A)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (B)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (C)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any stop sign, or yield sign
located at the side of a roadway;
   (D)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 20 feet of
said entrance when properly sign posted; or
   (E)   At any street, alley or public parking lot where official signs
prohibit standing or parking.
(Ord. 235, passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22  MAXIMUM PARKING LIMIT.
   No vehicle shall be parked on any street or public ground for a period
longer than 24 hours in any one location, or 20 lineal foot area.
(Ord. 235, passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23  NO PARKING; LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   No parking signs, indicating the appropriate hours shown below, shall be
erected on the following streets or portions thereof, and no person shall park
a vehicle on said streets or portions thereof during the indicated times.
(Ord. 235, passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24  IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The city or its authorized designees shall have the right to remove or
cause to be removed any vehicle from any street or public right-of-way that may
be abandoned, unlawfully parked or found to constitute a hazard to safety,
where the owner or person in charge of such vehicle cannot be found or is
unable to act, and, if necessary to enter such vehicle or cause the same to be
placed in condition to be moved, and may employ any reputable person, engaged
in the business of towing or storing vehicles for such purpose.
   (B)   Any person or organization employed by the city to move any vehicle as
provided in this section shall exercise reasonable and ordinary care in doing
so, and shall provide such storage facilities therefor as required by law of
bailees-for-hire, and for such service and storage shall have a lien on such
vehicle for the reasonable value of the charges for such towing, labor and
storage.
(Ord. 235, passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.25  VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person:
   (A)   To cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered or entitled
to be registered in the name of, or operated by such person, to be parked over-
time, or beyond the legal parking time established for any parking space as
herein described beyond the maximum legal parking time for that particular
parking space; and/or
   (B)   To permit any vehicle to remain or be placed in any parking space for
a period longer than allowed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 235, passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of any of the provisions of §§
72.01 through
72.06 shall be punishable of a fine of not exceeding $100 or by confinement in
jail for a period of not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and
confinement.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who operates a vehicle found in violation of §§
72.20 through
72.25 shall, within 96 hours from the time when the notice of violation was
attached to such vehicle, pay to the office of City Hall and/or to the Finance
Officer, as penalty for and in full satisfaction of such violation, the sum of
$10.
      (2)   If said person fails to pay said sum within 96 hours, he or she
shall, within two weeks from said 96-hour period, pay to said officer as
penalty for and in full satisfaction of said violation the sum of $25.
      (3)   Upon failure of said person to pay either of said sums to said
office/officer within the time periods indicated, and upon conviction of a
violation of this section, said person shall be guilty of committing a Class II
misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of $500 and/or 30 days in jail.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 235, passed 6-4-2007)
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck traffic
SCHEDULE I.  TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Definition. When used in this schedule, the word TRUCK shall be
defined as: a vehicle whose weight is more than 10,000 pounds per axle and/or
whose gross weight is more than 30,000 pounds.
   (B)   Restriction of Main Street. No truck traffic shall be allowed on Main
Street between the intersection of Main Street and Railroad Avenue west to the
intersection of Main Street and Martha Avenue in the city.
   (C)   Police authority. Any police authority or designated public works
official has the authority to require any person driving or in control of any
truck to proceed to any public or private scale for the purpose of weighing and
determining whether such truck is in violation of this schedule. Such
authorities may issue a citation to any motor vehicle that exceeds the limits
imposed by this schedule. Such authorities may detain such vehicles until the
weight of such vehicles meets the limits imposed by this schedule. Such
authorities may also issue a temporary permit for operation of such vehicles.
   (D)   Temporary permits. The Police Department and the Finance Officer have
the authority, for cause or upon request, to issue temporary permits for trucks
to operate over routes not established as the truck route by the City Council,
or to otherwise deviate from the provisions of this schedule. Such action by
the Police Department and Finance Officer is subject to review, modification or
cancellation by the City Council. That upon application for such temporary
permits, the applicant shall be required to post a deposit of $50, which
deposit, if the temporary permit is issued, shall be deemed to be the fee paid
for said permit. In no event, however, shall it be mandatory that a temporary
permit is issued.
   (E)   Exceptions to use of truck routes.
      (1)   Emergency vehicles. Emergency vehicles, including, but not limited
to, law enforcement, ambulance, Fire Department, Health Department vehicles and
tow trucks, may operate upon any street or highway in the city. Such emergency
vehicles may include utility vehicles engaged in the performance of emergency
duties.
      (2)   Street repair or construction. Use of the city streets for the
operation of trucks owned or operated by the city, state, public utilities, any
contractor or material men, while engaged in the repair, maintenance or
construction of city streets, city street improvements or city-owned or
contracted utilities or any other authorized city activity is permitted.
   (F)   Penalty. A violation of any of the provisions of this schedule shall
be punishable by a fine not exceeding $200 or by confinement in jail for a
period not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and confinement.
(Ord. 220, passed 8-4-2003)
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Double parking; center parking
SCHEDULE I.  DOUBLE PARKING; CENTER PARKING.
   All double parking and center parking be prohibited on Main Street effective
immediately. Notice to such effect be published.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS
      
94.   OPEN BURNING
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General
   
90.001   Authority
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Animal control officer
   
90.004   Leash on dogs
   
90.005   Dog kennels
Vicious Animals
   
90.020   Ownership of vicious dog
   
90.021   Vicious dog defined
   
90.022   Injury to person trespassing; teasing dog; attempting to commit crime
   
90.023   Determination that animal is a vicious dog
Rabies Control
   
90.040   Vaccination required
   
90.041   Report of rabies
   
90.042   Impoundment of animal that has bitten or attacked
   
90.043   Confinement of pet after attack upon person
   
90.044   Confinement of pet bitten by animal suspected of having rabies
   
90.045   Destruction of animal required
Licensing
   
90.060   Licensing of dogs and cats required
   
90.061   Application for license certificate and tag
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
90.075   Keeping of animals
   
90.076   Disturbing the peace
   
90.077   Stray, abandoned or unkept animals
   
90.078   Number of pets limited
   
90.079   Responsibility
   
90.080   Running at large prohibited
   
90.081   Neglect, abandonment, mistreatment of animal
   
90.082   Cruelty to animals
   
90.083   Unattended animals
Impoundment
   
90.095   Authority to impound
   
90.096   Notice to owner
   
90.097   Redemption of animal by person other than owner
   
90.098   Disposition of unredeemed animals
   
90.099   Costs
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.115   Enforcement; authority
   
90.116   Interference with enforcement
   
90.117   Failure to comply with a warning ticket
   
90.118   Record keeping requirements
   
90.119   Payment of fees and charges; stopping payment or issuing bad check
prohibited
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL
§ 90.001  AUTHORITY.
   This municipality shall have the power to regulate or prohibit the running
at large of dogs, animals, and poultry, to establish pounds, appoint
poundmasters, and regulate the impounding of animals, and to impose a tax or
license on dogs running at large pursuant to SDCL § 9-29-12.
§ 90.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT.  Giving up with the intent of never again regaining one's
interests in, or rights to, an animal other than placing ownership with a
responsible party.
   ANIMAL.  Any mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, or fish, except humans.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.  An individual, approved by the governing body, with
police authority, whose duty it is to apprehend animals withing the
jurisdiction of this chapter whose owner are in violation of this chapter. The
police department shall also act as animal control officers.
   ANIMAL SHELTER.  A building and facilities therein approved by the governing
board and the health authority for the impounding of animals.
   ANTI-ESCAPE.  Any housing, fencing or device which a guard dog cannot go
over, under, through or around.
   AT LARGE.
      (1)   An animal when off or away from the premises and not under the
control of the owner, possessor, keeper, agent, servant, or a member of its
immediate family by a leash.
      (2)   An animal when on the premises of the owner, possessor, keeper,
agent, or servant if not attended by a competent person unless that animal is
chained, restrained, enclosed, or confined in a manner preventing it from
leaving the premises.
   CONTRACTED AGENT.  The person, organization, governmental agency or
corporation with whom the municipality and/or county contracts to perform
animal control functions.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  Any animal that through long association with man, has
been bred to a degree which has resulted in genetic changes affecting the
temperament, color, conformation, or other attributes of the species to an
extent that makes it unique and different from wild individuals of its kind.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES.  An animal has been EXPOSED TO RABIES if it has been
bitten by, or been exposed to, any animal known to be or suspected of being
infected with rabies.
   GUARD DOG.  Any dog that is utilized to protect commercial property, or is
housed unattended on commercial property at any time other than normal business
hours, except that such definition shall not apply to pet stores, boarding
kennels, veterinary offices and animal shelters.
   HANDLER.  A person who is responsible for or capable of controlling the
operations of a guard dog.
   HUMANE SOCIETY INVESTIGATOR.  An individual, approved by the governing body,
with police authority, whose duty it is to apprehend animals within the
jurisdiction of this chapter, whose owners are in violation of this chapter.
   IMPOUNDMENT.  Taking physical control and custody of an animal.
   KENNEL.  Any lot or premises or portion thereof where four or more dogs,
cats, rabbits, or other household/domesticated animals, six months of age or
older, are maintained, boarded, bred or cared for, in return for any
compensation, or are kept for the purpose of sale.
   NEUTERED DOG/CAT.  Any male dog/cat which has undergone surgery to prevent
reproduction, whose owner can provide proof of surgery.
   OWNER.  Any person harboring or keeping an animal and who is the head of the
household of the residence of the owner or manager in charge of the
establishment or premises at which an animal remains or returns to. An animal
shall be deemed harbored if it is fed or sheltered for 20 consecutive days.
(SDCL § 40-12-4)
   PET.  Any dog, cat, or other species of carnivore kept for domestication or
display.
(SDCL § 40-12-4)
   RESTRAINT.  A leash or chain, not longer than six feet in length, held by a
competent person, or enclosing an animal within a vehicle being driven or
parked on the streets, or keeping the animal within the property limits of its
owner or keeper.
   SERVICE ANIMAL.  Any dog owned by any state, county or municipal police
department or any state of federal law enforcement agency which has been
trained to aid law enforcement officers and is actually being used for law
enforcement purposes, or any properly trained dog certified by a licensed
seeing-eye or hearing-ear dog agency and actually being used by a visually or
hearing impaired person.
   SHELTER MANAGER.  The owner and/or supervisor of the animal shelter, either
as an employee of the municipality or a contractor with the municipality. The
individual is charged, together with the police department, with the overall
enforcement of this chapter, and performs the professional services required in
the care, treatment or euthanization of the animals being handled.
   SPAYED DOG/CAT.  Any female dog/cat which has undergone surgery to prevent
conception, whose owners can provide suitable proof of such surgery.
   WILD ANIMAL.  Any animal(s) other than domestic dogs and cats, which in a
wild state are carnivorous or which because of their nature or physical make up
are capable of inflicting serious physical harm or death to human beings,
including but not limited to: animal(s) which belong to the cat family, snakes
which are poisonous or otherwise present a risk of serious physical harm of
death to human beings as a result of their nature or physical makeup, and all
raccoons, skunks, foxes, bears, coyotes, wolverines, badgers, lions and tigers.
§ 90.003  ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The animal control officer shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and
may issue citations for violations of this chapter or may issue warning tickets
requiring correction of a violation.
§ 90.004  LEASH ON DOGS.
   (A)   No owner or any person harboring or keeping an animal shall permit
such animal to run off his or her premises and not under his or her control by
a leash.
   (B)   Any animal which is found off of the premises of the owner, keeper or
possessor shall be seized by a law enforcement officer and impounded. The
owner, keeper or possessor of the animal, if he or she can be found within the
limits of the city, shall be given notice, either verbally or written, that the
animal shall be claimed within 48 hours from the time the notice is received.
If the owner, keeper or possessor cannot conveniently be found, notice need not
be given. If the owner, keeper or possessor of the animal claims the same
within said 48-hour period, said owner keeper or possessor shall reimburse the
city for any costs incurred in the keeping of the animal.
   (C)   If any animal is not so claimed by its owner within said time, the
animal shall be forthwith destroyed and the costs of the keeping of the animal
assessed to the owner, be immune from any liability claims which may result
from the disposal of any animal under this section.
   (D)   No person shall willfully or negligently maltreat or abuse or neglect
in a cruel or inhumane manner, any animal or fowl.
   (E)   No person shall harbor or keep any stray animals. Animals known to be
strayed shall be reported to the law enforcement department immediately, and
any stray animals may be destroyed by the city forthwith without notice to any
person.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or have within the city
limits a dog that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps at, attacks or barks
at pedestrians, bicyclists or vehicles, or turns over garbage containers or
damages gardens, flowers, vegetables or conducts itself in such a manner as to
be a public nuisance.
   (G)   When proved that a dog has destroyed, damaged or abused property of
another person, the owner, keeper or possessor of such dog shall be strictly
liable for any damages which occur.
   (H)   The keeping of animals or fowls on any lot in the city shall not be on
a commercial basis or on a scale reasonably objectionable to the adjacent
property owners.
   (I)   ANIMAL shall be defined as follows: any dog, cat, horse, cow, goat,
sheep, rabbits, fowl, chickens, guinea fowl, ducks, geese, turkey or other
domestic fowl except pigeons, falcons or hawks, in the possession of a state
and federal handler within the city.
(Ord. 175, passed - -; Ord. 175, passed 10-2-1989)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005  DOG KENNELS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor on any lot or
premises four or more dogs of at least three months of age without a kennel
license. Prior to issuance of such a license the applicant shall provide
information and plans describing the kennel, its location, cleaning practices
and other pertinent information. Such kennel shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition, and not permitted to become stagnant, nauseous or a
nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep a dog or dogs in a dog
kennel nearer the house of a neighbor within 50 feet.
   (B)   The application for license shall be made at the City Finance Office
with a fee payable of $10 for each dog exceeding three in number with a maximum
fee of $100.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-8-1991)  Penalty, see §
90.999
VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 90.020  OWNERSHIP OF VICIOUS DOG.
   Any person owning or keeping a vicious dog as defined in SDCL §§ 40-34-13
through 40-34-15, has committed a public nuisance and is subject to the
provisions of SDCL §§ 21-10-5 and 21-10-9.
(SDCL § 40-34-13)
§ 90.021  VICIOUS DOG DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, a VICIOUS DOG is:
   (A)   Any dog, which, when unprovoked, in a vicious or terrorizing manner
approaches in apparent attitude of attack, or bites, inflicts injury, assaults
or otherwise attacks a human being upon the streets, sidewalks or any public
grounds or places; or
   (B)   Any dog which, on private property, when unprovoked, in a vicious or
terrifying manner approaches in apparent attitude of attack, or bite, or
inflicts injury, or other wise attacks a mailman, meter reader, serviceman,
journeyman, delivery man or other employed person who is on private property by
reason of permission of the owner or occupant of such property or who is on
private property by reason a course of dealing with the owner of such private
property.
(SDCL § 40-34-14)
   (C)   Every vicious dog and every dog which has the habit of barking or
howling in the night, or one that habitually chases and barks at vehicles
disturbing and annoying any person or neighborhood, or one that shall injure or
destroy any lawn, garden, shrubbery, flowers or vines, is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, and no person shall keep or harbor any such dog.
§ 90.022  INJURY TO PERSON TRESPASSING; TEASING DOG; ATTEMPTING TO COMMIT
CRIME.
   No dog may be declared vicious if an injury or damage is sustained by any
person who was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon premises
occupied by the owner or keeper of the dog, or who was teasing, tormenting,
abusing or assaulting the dog or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
(SDCL § 40-34-15)
§ 90.023  DETERMINATION THAT ANIMAL IS A VICIOUS DOG.
   (A)   When the animal control officer determines that an animal is vicious,
he or she shall notify the owner of such declaration in writing that such
animal must be registered as a vicious animal withing five business days after
the receipt of such written notice. The notice shall be served either in person
or by mailing such notice by certified mail.
   (B)   The owner of an animal that has been declared vicious shall make
application to the animal control office to register such vicious animal and
shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The owner of the animal shall notify the animal control officer of
the following:
         (a)   Ownership of the animal;
         (b)   Name, address, and telephone number of new owner;
         (c)   Address change of the owner or of any change in where the animal
is housed;
         (d)   A change in the health status of the animal;
         (e)   Death of the animal.
      (2)   If the animal is indoors, the animal shall be under the control of
a person over 18 years old.
      (3)   If the animal is outdoors and attended, the animal shall be
muzzled, on a leash no longer than six feet and under the control of a person
over 18 years of age.
      (4)   If the animal is outdoors and unattended, the animal must be locked
in an escape-proof kennel approved by the animal control officer.
      (5)   The minimum standard for fencing, pens, or similar structures are
the following:
         (a)   Fencing materials shall not have opening with a diameter of more
than two inches; in the case of a wooden fence, the gaps shall not be more than
two inches.
         (b)   Any gates within in such pen or structure shall be lockable and
of such design to prevent the entry of children or the escape of the animal.
         (c)   The required pen or structure shall have secure sides and a
secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the side, the
sides shall be imbedded into the ground or concrete.
         (d)   The pen or structure must protect the animal from the elements.
         (e)   The pen or structure may be required to have double exterior
walls to prevent the insertion of fingers, hands or other objects.
      (6)   The animal shall be permanently identified by injecting an
identification microchip into the animal using standard veterinary procedures
and practices. The number and the veterinarian who injected the microchip is to
be reported to the animal control officer.
      (7)   A universal sign denoting a vicious animal shall be displayed on
the kennel or enclosure and on a place visible from the sidewalk or road
adjacent to the property where the animal is kept.
      (8)   The owner shall carry $100,000 liability insurance covering the
medical and/or veterinary costs resulting from the vicious actions or any other
damage the animal may do or cause to be done. Proof of such insurance shall be
filed with the animal control officer.
      (9)   The owner shall present proof of current rabies vaccination and
current municipal license of the animal to the animal control officer.
      (10)   The owner shall present proof to the animal control officer that
the animal has been altered to prevent reproduction.
   (C)   The vicious animal shall be impounded by the animal control officer at
the owner's expense until such time as all provisions of division (B) have been
complied with.
   (D)   If the provisions of division (B) have not been met, the animal shall
be seized and euthanized in a humane manner.
   (E)   (1)   Any vicious animal found off the premises of its owner, other
than provided for in this chapter, shall be seized by the animal control
officer or any police officer and impounded. If the animal cannot be captured,
it shall be destroyed.
      (2)   If the animal has been running at large, or bites a person, or
bites another animal, that animal control officer or any police officer may
order the owner to deliver the animal to the shelter within 24 hours and the
owner ordered to appear in court to show cause why the animal shall not be
destroyed. If the owner of the animal fails to deliver the animal as ordered,
the animal control officer or any police officer shall use such means as
necessary to impound the animal.
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.040  VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any dog, cat or other animal susceptible to rabies, held as a pet in
this municipality, that is six months of age or older, is required to be
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian or other qualified
individual approved by the health authority. All subsequent rabies vaccinations
as required by the health authority shall also be given at the appropriate
intervals.
   (B)   Any owner of a dog, cat or other animal susceptible to rabies that is
acquired by birth, purchase or adoption shall have that animal vaccinated
within one month of such acquisition or when that animal reaches the age of six
months.
§ 90.041  REPORT OF RABIES.
   Any person who knows of an animal infected with rabies shall report the same
to the animal control officer with a description of the animal and the name and
address of the owner, if known.
§ 90.042  IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMAL THAT HAS BITTEN OR ATTACKED.
   (A)   When an owner of an animal has been notified that animal has bitten or
attacked any person, within 24 hours, that owner shall place the animal under
the care and control of the animal control officer for a period of not less
than ten days.
   (B)   At the end of the ten-day period, the animal control officer shall
examine that confined animal and if cleared, the animal may be reclaimed by the
owner. The owner is to pay all expenses incident to the confinement and
examination.
   (C)   If, during confinement, the animal shows signs of rabies or it is
known that animal has been exposed to rabies, then that animal may be confined
in excess of the ten-day period and for as long a period as is necessary to
determine a diagnosis.
   (D)   Any animal that has bitten or attacked and cannot be captured, may be
destroyed in such a way as not to destroy the head so that it may be submitted
to a laboratory for a rabies examination.
   (E)   (1)   Within 24 hours of the bite, if an owner of the animal that has
bitten or attacked can provide proof of a current rabies vaccination given
within 30 days prior to the date of the bite or attack, then he or she may
prevent the euthanization of the animal by order of the health authority or a
veterinarian from the board of health.
      (2)   Any animal that has bitten any person may be euthanized by order or
the health authority, if in its opinion and based on sound medical judgements,
a greater risk is present if the animal is not euthanized. The health authority
shall take into consideration the following factors:
         (a)   History of the animal, including its exposure to rabies;
         (b)   Vaccination record of the animal;
         (c)   Health of animal;
         (d)   Nature, seriousness and location of bite;
         (e)   Circumstances surrounding the bite, including whether or not the
bitten animal provoked it;
         (f)   Tolerance of person bitten to vaccination treatments.
§ 90.043  CONFINEMENT OF PET AFTER ATTACK UPON PERSON.
   The department may serve written notice upon the owner of any dog or cat
which has attacked or bitten a person to confine the animal at the owner's
expense upon his premises or at a municipal pound or other place designated in
the notice for a period of at least ten days after the animal has attacked or
bitten any person. The department may examine the animal at any time within the
ten-day period of confinement to determine whether such animal shows symptoms
of rabies. In the case of any pet other than a dog or cat, which has attacked
or bitten a person, the department may serve written notice upon the owner of
such animal that the owner shall have the animal euthanized immediately and
submit the brain to an approved laboratory for rabies examination.
(SDCL § 40-12-5)
§ 90.044  CONFINEMENT OF PET BITTEN BY ANIMAL SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES.
   The department may serve written notice upon the owner of a dog or cat known
to have been bitten by an animal known or suspected of being affected by
rabies, requiring the owner to confine such dog or cat for a period of not less
than six months. However, if such dog or cat had been properly treated with an
antirabic vaccine, confinement shall be for a period of not less than three
months. In the case of any pet other than a dog or cat, the department may
serve written notice upon the owner of such animal that the owner shall have
the animal euthanized immediately.
(SDCL § 40-12-6)
§ 90.045  DESTRUCTION OF ANIMAL REQUIRED.
   If the animal control officer determines that rabies exists in any animal,
the board may kill such animal and any animal there is reason to believe an
animal or person has been bitten by any animal affected with rabies.
LICENSING
§ 90.060  LICENSING OF DOGS AND CATS REQUIRED.
   Each owner of a dog or cat that is the age of six months or over, within 30
days of the acquisition of the animal or within 30 days of the animal turning
that age, shall have that animal licensed. Proof of rabies immunization and the
proper fee shall be required at the time application for such licenses is made.
§ 90.061  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE CERTIFICATE AND TAG.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog or cat residing within the municipality shall
submit an application for a license for each animal owned that is six months of
age or older. A renewal application shall be submitted within one year of the
issuance of the initial application and annually thereafter.
   (B)   Upon proper receipt of the application, a certificate and tag shall be
issued to the owner of the animal. The certificate shall be in possession of
the owner and the license shall be affixed to the licenses animal at all times.
If there is a change of ownership, loss or death of the animal, the owner shall
notify animal control of the event within ten days.
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 90.075  KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   The keeping of animals shall not be on such a scale so as to create a
nuisance. This prohibition includes the domestic fowl of the order Galliformes
and Gallinaceous (fowl-like birds), and the order Anseriformes (water fowl).
   (B)   Nothing is this sections shall prohibit the keeping of the domestic
cat (Felis catus), the European polecat (Mustela putorius foro) otherwise known
as the ferret, or the domestic dog (Canis familiaris), as long as the licensing
or permit procedures and all other provisions of this chapter are followed.
   (C)   It is considered a nuisance and shall be unlawful for any person to
keep and maintain (other than the care and treatment of injured or abandoned
birds and animals by people licensed for that purpose) or sell native fur
bearers, bears, mountain lions, bobcats, lynx, panthers, endangered species,
exotic cats or venomous snakes.
§ 90.076  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   The owner or custodian of an animal shall not allow the animal to
create a disturbance by making loud noises at any time of the night or day.
   (B)   Any animal control officer or police officer may remove and impound
any animal which is disturbing the peace when the owner of animal cannot be
located. A notice advising the owner of the impoundment shall be left on the
premises.
   (C)   Any person having custody or control of any female dog or cat in heat
shall be required to keep such dot or cat confined in a building, secure
enclosure, veterinary hospital, or boarding kennel so that it cannot attract or
come into contact with another animal on public or private property except for
controlled breeding purposes.
§ 90.077  STRAY, ABANDONED OR UNKEPT ANIMALS.
   No person shall harbor or keep any stray animals. Animals known to be strays
shall be immediately reported to the animal control officer.
§ 90.078  NUMBER OF PETS LIMITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to have or to keep more than four domestic
pets over the age of six months, except birds and fish on any lot or premises
in the municipality, unless such person residing on or in the lot or premises
has a valid kennel license issued by the municipality. The humane society,
veterinarian offices, and retail pet stores are exempt from the provisions of
this section.
§ 90.079  RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No person shall create or maintain any condition or operate any
equipment or keep any animal, fowl, pet or insect under his or her jurisdiction
in such a way that such condition or operation causes or likely to cause the
transmission of diseases from animals or insects to man.
   (B)   No owner, caretaker, or attendant of an animal shall allow an animal
to defecate on public or private property other than his or her own. If such
animal does defecate upon public or private property, the owner, keeper,
caretaker, or attendant must immediately and thoroughly clean the fecal matter
from such property.
   (C)   Anyone walking an animal on public or private property other than his
or her own must carry with him or her visible means of cleaning up any fecal
matter left by the animal. Animals used in parades or involved in law
enforcement are exempt from this subsection.
§ 90.080  RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have any animal which is owned, kept,
harbored, or allowed to be habitually in or upon the premises occupied by him
or her under his or her control to be at large and to go in or upon the private
premises of others or upon public property.
§ 90.081  NEGLECT, ABANDONMENT, OR MISTREATMENT OF ANIMAL.
   No person owning or responsible for the care of an animal may neglect,
abandon, or mistreat the animal.
(SDCL § 40-1-2.3)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.082  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person may subject an animal to cruelty.
(SDCL § 40-1-2.4)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.083  UNATTENDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   A person may not leave any animal unattended in a standing or parked
motor vehicle in a manner that endangers the animal's health or safety.
   (B)   A violation of this section is a class 2 misdemeanor carrying a $200
fine.
   (C)   A person found to be in violation of this section shall bear the costs
and fees associated with any required care, treatment, impounding, or kenneling
of the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.999
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.095  AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   The animal control officer or police officers have the authority to impound
any animal in violation of this chapter.
§ 90.096  NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The owner of any animal that has been impounded shall be notified within 24
hours of the impoundment of his or her animal, provided that name and address
of the owner can be reasonably ascertained.
§ 90.097  REDEMPTION OF ANIMAL BY PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   If the owner of any animal that has been impounded fails to redeem such
animal, after the impoundment period, any other person may redeem the animal,
upon complying with any requirements of this chapter, may redeem the animal and
become the lawful owner.
§ 90.098  DISPOSITION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   If an impounded animal is wearing a license or other means of
identification, the animal shall be kept at the shelter for a period of five
days, excluding Sundays and holidays.
   (B)   If an animal is not wearing identification, it shall be confined for a
period of three days, excluding Sundays and holidays. The animal control
officer may dispose of the animal impounded in any humane manner.
§ 90.099  COSTS.
   (A)   An animal held or impounded shall be released to its owner or other
persons only after payment of daily boarding costs, any veterinarian fees and
impoundment fees have been paid in full.
   (B)   Boarding costs, veterinarian fees and impoundment fees are in addition
to any fines assessed for violation of this chapter.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.115  ENFORCEMENT; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the police
department or the animal control officer.
   (B)   The animal control officer of police department may issue citations
for violations of any section of this title or may issue warning tickets
requiring correction of a violation.
§ 90.116  INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   No person may hinder, delay or obstruct any police officer or the animal
control officer in the performance of any duty under this chapter or seek to
release any animal in the custody of the animal control officer, except as
provided herein.
§ 90.117  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH A WARNING TICKET.
   It is unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with the
provisions of requirements of a warning ticket lawfully issued under this
chapter.
§90.118  RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the shelter manager and the animal control officer
to keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of the licensing,
finding, impoundment and disposition of all animals and owners coming into his
or her custody. It shall be the duty of the animal control officer and shelter
manager to keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of all bite
cases provided to him or her and his or her investigation of the same. It shall
be the duty of the shelter manager to keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and
detailed records of all moneys belonging to the municipality.
§ 90.119  PAYMENT OF FEES AND CHARGES; STOPPING PAYMENT OR ISSUING BAD CHECK
PROHIBITED.
   No person may avoid payment of licenses or impoundment fees prescribed by
this chapter or charges for veterinarian services or rabies observation costs
incurred under this chapter, by stopping payment on any check or issuing an
insufficient funds check.
§ 90.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a second degree misdemeanor and punished by a fine
of not more than $500 or by confinement not to exceed 30 days in the county
jail, or both fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of a violation of any provision of §
90.004 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $100, or by detention not to
exceed 30 days, or by both such fine and detention.
   (C)   A violation of §
90.005 shall be punishable by a fine of not to exceed $100 or by imprisonment
in jail of not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-2-1989; Ord. 187, passed 7-8-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3and 22-6-2(2)
CHAPTER 91:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Purpose; policy
   
91.02   Construction
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Board
   
91.05   Complaints
   
91.06   Investigation
   
91.07   Findings
   
91.08   Appeal
   
91.09   Quorum
   
91.10   Rules
   
91.11   Minutes
§ 91.01  PURPOSE; POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city, for the protection of the public safety, for
the health, morals, safety and welfare of the persons in and residing in the
city, and for the maintenance and promotion of commerce, industry and good
government in the city to secure all persons living and/or working or desiring
to live and/or work in the city fair opportunity to purchase, lease, rent or
occupy real estate without discrimination based on race, color, religion,
creed, age marital status, physical limitations, source of income, national
origin or ancestry.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.02  CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms
and shall be liberally construed to further the purpose and policy stated in §
91.01 and the special purposes of the particular provision involved.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY OR UNFAIR HOUSING PRACTICE.
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of sex, race, creed, religion,
ancestry or national origin; age, marital status, physical limitations or
source of income;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of sex, race, color, creed,
religion, ancestry or nation origin; age4, marital status, physical limitations
or source of income;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, or published, any
notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
sex, race, color, creed, religion, ancestry or national origin; age, marital
status, physical limitations or source of income or an intention to make any
such preference, limitation or discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of sex, race, color, creed,
religion, ancestry or nation origin; age, marital status, physical limitation
or source of income that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   To induce or attempt to induce for profit, any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular sex, race, color/
creed, religion, ancestry or nation origin, age, marital status, physical
limitations or source of income; and
      (6)   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or
other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in
whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, construction, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against the person in the fixing of the amount, interest rate,
duration or other terms or condition of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of sex, race, color, creed, religion, ancestry, nation
origin, age, marital status, physical limitations or source of income.
   DWELLING.  Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied, or
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY.  Includes a single individual.
   MARITAL STATUS.  The state of being married, unmarried, divorce or widowed.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN.  Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
   PERSON.  Includes one or more individuals, corporation, partnerships,
associations, labor organization, legal representations, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organization, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   PHYSICAL LIMITATION.  A limitation of physical capabilities unrelated to
one’s ability to safely perform the work involved in jobs or positions
available to such person for hire or promotion or a limitation of physical
capabilities unrelated to one’s ability to acquire, rent and maintain property.
PHYSICAL LIMITATION includes, but is not limited to, blindness or partial
sightedness, deafness or hearing impairment, muteness, partial or total absence
of physical member, speech impairment and motor impairment.
   TO RENT.  Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.04  BOARD.
   To effectuate the policy of the city set forth, there is created a Fair
Housing Board which may act to disseminate information, to cooperate with
groups or persons interested in similar objectives, to conduct public meetings
and hearings, to mitigate and conciliate in instances of alleged
discrimination, and to initiate and hear compliants alleging discrimination
with such investigation and inquiry as may reasonably appear necessary.
   (A)   The membership of the Board shall be composed of the members of the
governing body of which the members’ term on the board shall coincide with
their term of public office.
   (B)   In the hearing of verified complaints, the Board will have the power
and authority to subpoena and examine witnesses, to administer oaths, take
sworn testimony, and require the production for examination of relevant books
or papers and to take such affirmative action as in the judgment of the Board
will effectuate its purposes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.05  COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Procedure for filing complaints. Any person claiming to be aggrieved
by a discriminatory or unfair housing practice may make, sign and file with the
Board a verified, written complaint which shall state the name and address of
the person or agency alleged to have committed the discriminatory or unfair
housing practice of which complained, shall set forth the facts upon which the
complaint is based, and shall contain such other information as may be required
by the Council.
   (B)   Time for filing complaint. Any complaint filed under this chapter
shall be so filed within six months after the alleged discriminatory or unfair
housing practice has occurred.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.06  INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Conference or conciliation to eliminate unfair practice. After the
filing of a verified complaint, a true copy thereof shall be served by
certified mail to the person against whom the complaint is filed. A member of
the Fair Housing Board or a duly authorized agent shall then make a prompt
investigation thereof and if such investigating official determines that
probable cause exits to support the allegations of the complaint, the
investigating official shall immediately endeavor to eliminate such
discriminatory or unfair housing practice by conference or conciliation.
   (B)   Notice to respondent to anser complaint; time for answer. In case of
failure satisfactorily to settle a complaint by conference or conciliation, or
in advance thereof if in the opinion of the investigating official
circumstances so warrant, the officials may issue and cause to be served a
written notice, together with a copy of such complaint, as the same may have
been amended, requiring the person, hereafter referred to as respondent, to
anser the charges of such complaint in writing within ten days after the date
of such notice or within such extended time as the investigating official may
allow.
   (C)   Notice to answer complaint after investigating official’s report; time
for hearing. When the investigating official is satisfied that further endeavor
to settle a complaint by conference or conciliation will be futile, the
official shall report the same to the Board. If the Board determines that the
circumstances warrant, it shall issue and cause to be served a written notice
requiring the respondent to anser the charges of such complaint at a hearing to
be set within a reasonable period of time before the Board, and at a time and
place to be specified in such notice.
   (D)   Respondent’s answer and appearing at hearing. The respondent may file
a written verified answer to the complaint, and may appear at the hearing in
person, with or without counsel, and submit testimony.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.07  FINDINGS.
   (A)   Finding of discriminatory or unfair practice; affirmative action
required. If, upon taking into consideration all the evidence at a haring, the
Board shall find that the respondent has engaged in or is engaging in, any
discriminatory or unfair housing practice as defined above, the Board shall
state its findings of fact and recommendations to the parties and take such
affirmative action as in the judgment of the Board will effectuate its purpose.
   (B)   Finding of no discriminatory or unfair practice; dismissal of
complaint. If, upon taking into consideration all of the evidence at the
hearing, the Board finds that the respondent has not engaged in any such
discriminatory or unfair housing practice, the Board shall state its findings
of fact and shall issue and cause to be served an order on the complainant and
the respondent dismissing the complaint.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.08  APPEAL.
   All decisions of the Board shall be subject to appeal under the same
conditions and in the manner provided under SDCL §§ 1-26-30 through 1-26-37.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.09  QUORUM.
   All official actions of the Board shall be concurred in by a quorum of the
total membership of the Board.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.10  RULES.
   The Board shall establish rules to govern expedite, and effectuate the
procedure established by SDCL Chapter 20-13.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 91.11  MINUTES.
   The Board shall keep the minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be filed in the office of the Board and shall be public record.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Nuisance
   
92.02   Illustrative enumeration
   
92.03   Enforcement
Grass, Vegetation, Weeds
   
92.15   Weeds; duty of owner
   
92.16   Notice to destroy
   
92.17   Right of hearing from law enforcement’s or health officer’s
determination
   
92.18   Action upon noncompliance
   
92.19   Weed removal costs
   
92.20   Cost assessed
   
92.21   Recovery by city
   
92.22   Noxious plant and weeds defined
   
92.23   Mowing of grass and vegetation
Junked Motor Vehicles
   
92.35   Definitions
   
92.36   Storing and the like junked vehicles; exceptions
   
92.37   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  NUISANCE.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the word NUISANCE is hereby defined as
any person doing an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty, or suffering
or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act, omission,
condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch or drainage;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Ord. 236, passed 5-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be
conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
   (A)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation;
   (B)   Abandoned or junk property. Any junk or equipment of any type, except
in an authorized junk yard, or any accumulations of other unsightly trash or
junk which would constitute a health hazard, a rodent harborage, a breeding
area for insects or rodents, a dangerous place for children to pay in and
around or which tends to be unsightly and which does or tends to lower the
value of adjacent real property because of unsightliness. Unsightly trash or
junk includes property which is deteriorated, wrecked or derelict property to
unusable condition, having no value other than nominal scrap or junk value, if
any, and which has been left unprotected outside of a permanent structure from
the elements, and shall include without being restricted, deteriorated,
wrecked, inoperative or partially dismantled trailers, boats, motors,
snowmobiles, lawn mowers, motorcycles, refrigerators and other household
appliances, furniture, household goods and furnishings, scrap metals or lumber
or other similar articles in such condition;
   (C)   Garbage and refuse. Garbage, rubbish, waste material improperly
disposed of by discarding, abandoning, allowing to accumulate, scattering or
positioning outside an approved container. Depositing, maintaining or
permitting to be maintained or to accumulate upon any public or private
property any animal or vegetable matter which attends the processing,
preparation, transportation, cooking, eating, sale or storage of meat, fish,
vegetables, fruit and all other food or food products found within the city
which are likely to cause or transmit disease or which may be a hazard to
health; or
   (D)   Abandonment of vehicles.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (D), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
         PROPERTY.  Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
         STREET or HIGHWAY.  The entire width between the boundary lines of
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
         VEHICLE.  A machine propelled by power other than human power designed
to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle or tractor.
      (2)   No person shall abandon any vehicle within this city and no person
shall any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
      (3)   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating,
wrecked or junked vehicle on any street or highway within the city.
      (4)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city,
whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise shall allow any
partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to
remain on such property longer than ten days; and no person shall leave any
such vehicle on any property within the city for longer time than ten days;
except that this section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an
enclosed building, or to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise
operating in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such
business enterprise, or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or
depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city or authorized by
the city.
(Ord. 236, passed 5-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If a nuisance exists, a notice of violation shall be issued to the
offender, to the concerned property owner and to the person in possession of
the property whereon the offense was committed, directing abatement.
   (B)   Notice may be served upon the offender, the concerned property owner
and the person in possession of the property whereon the offense was committed
by personal service, by registered mail, or by posting in a conspicuous place
within the city limits and by publication for a period of one week in a legal
newspaper of the county.
   (C)   Within seven days after completion of the notice herein above
mentioned in division (B) above, an appeal may be filed by the offender, the
concerned property owner or by the person in possession of the property whereon
the offense was committed with the City Council. Within 15 days after filing,
appeal shall be heard before the City Council. All persons who fail to protest
shall be deemed to have waived all objections.
   (D)   Abatement shall be accomplished within seven days after notification
of the decision of the City Council, unless the offender, concerned property
owner or the person in possession of the property whereon the offense was
committed can show cause why more time is needed. Notification of the City
Council shall be mailed by registered or certified mail.
   (E)   If the abatement is not completed within the time herein above
mentioned in division (D) above, the City shall abate the nuisance and file an
account with the City Council, which account shall specify the sum expended in
abating said nuisance.
   (F)   At least seven days after the filing of the account herein above
mentioned in division (E) above, the City Council shall hold a hearing. Notice
announcing the time of the City Council meeting shall be mailed by registered
or certified mail to the concerned property owner, to the person in possession
and to the offender at least seven days prior to said meeting.
   (G)   The City Council shall hear the matter and if the account is accepted,
the amount thereof shall become a lien upon the property whereupon the offense
was committed.
(Ord. 236, passed 5-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
92.99
GRASS, VEGETATION, WEEDS
§ 92.15  WEEDS; DUTY OF OWNER.
   No owner of any lot, place or area within the city or the agent of such
owner or the occupant of such, lot, place or area, shall permit on such lot,
place or area or upon a sidewalk abutting the same any weeds, grass or
deleterious or unhealthful growths or other noxious matter that may be growing,
lying or located thereon, and the growing of such weeds or other noxious or
unhealthful vegetation is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-10-2000)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16  NOTICE TO DESTROY.
   A law enforcement officer or health officer is hereby authorized and
empowers to notify in writing the owner of any such lot, place or area within
the city or the agent such owner or the occupant of such premises, to cut,
destroy or remove any such weed grass or deleterious or unhealthful growths or
other noxious matter found growing, lying or located on such property or upon
the sidewalk abutting same. Such notice shall be certified mail addressed to
said owner, agent or occupant at his or her known address.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 92.17  RIGHT OF HEARING FROM LAW ENFORCEMENT’S OR HEALTH OFFICER’S
DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The owner or any person affected shall have the right to a hearing
before the City Council for investigation and review of the law enforcement
officer’s of health officer’s determination. Such right to a hearing must be
exercised by the filing of a request for hearing in writing with the finance
officer at City Hall within five days after the date posting, publishing,
serving or mailing of notice to cut, destroy or remove as provided §
92.16. The request for a hearing shall state the objections to the law
enforcement officer’s or health officer’s determination and shall be signed by
the party requesting the hearing. Upon receipt of the request for a hearing,
the finance officer shall present the matter to the City Council at its next
regular or special meeting. The City Council shall schedule a hearing on the
matter at which time affected parties shall have right to appear, be
represented by Council, testify and present evidence in their case.
   (B)   The hearing shall be scheduled not less than five days from the date
the request is presented to the City Council at a duly called meeting. The city
shall at the time of the hearing, hear and decide, whether the effected
property does contain weeds, grass or deleterious or unhealthful growths, or
other noxious matter such that it constitutes a nuisance.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-10-2000)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18  ACTION UPON NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Upon the failure to file a written request for a hearing within five days as
herein above provided and upon failure, neglect or refusal of any owner, agent
or occupant so notified to comply with said notice within 15 days after the
mailing thereof, the law enforcement officer or health officer is hereby
authorized and empowered to provide for the cutting, destroying or removal of
such weeds, grass or deleterious unhealthful growths or other noxious matter
and to defray the cost of the destruction thereof by special assessment against
the property.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-10-2000)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19  WEED REMOVAL COSTS.
   If the owner or occupier of the land fails to cut the weeds, as provided for
in the preceding section, the city shall cut the weeds. The cost to the
landowner shall be $75 for the first hour of cutting and $25 for each
additional hour of cutting, with a $75 minimum charge.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-10-2000)
§ 92.20  COST ASSESSED.
   The law enforcement officer or health officer shall cause an account to be
kept against each lot for the destruction of noxious weeds and mowed grass upon
said lot as herein provided and shall certify the same to the City Finance
Officer upon the completion of the work in destroying such weeds and abating
said nuisance and the City Finance Officer shall thereupon certify said account
showing the account, the description of the property and the owner thereof to
the County Auditor who shall thereupon add such assessment as a special
assessment together with the regular assessment to the County Treasurer to be
collected as a municipal taxes for general purposes. Said assessment shall be
subject to review and equalization the same as assessments or taxes for general
purposes.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-10-2000)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21  RECOVERY BY CITY.
   In lieu of spreading the cost of the destruction of such weeds and grass and
other deleterious matter against said property in the discretion of the City
Council, said amount may be recovered in a civil action against the owner or
occupant of such property.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-10-2000)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22  NOXIOUS PLANT AND WEEDS DEFINED.
   The following plants and weeds shall be deemed to be noxious, dangerous and
unhealthful vegetation to-wit: all species of rag weed; all species of cockle
burrs; all species of tumbleweeds; all species of thistles; dandelions;
plantains; sweet clover; morning glory; black mustard; and pig wee.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-10-2000)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23  MOWING OF GRASS AND VEGETATION.
   (A)   Each property owner of the city is responsible for the mowing of grass
and vegetation on the owner’s property.
   (B)   Any property within the city which is overgrown with grass and
vegetation shall be mowed by the city and the costs of such mowing shall be
assessed against the individual property owner and the said property.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989)  Penalty, see §
92.99
JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 92.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle, as defined in this section,
which is left unattended on any public street, alley, public place or parking
lot within the city for a longer period than 24 hours without notifying the
Chief of Police and making arrangements for the parking of such motor vehicle.
   ANTIQUE/COLLECTIBLE VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle having special value because
of its age or characteristics and does nor meet the junked motor vehicle
definition.
   CITY.  The City of Oldham.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle, as herein defined, which has not
physically moved 25 feet in a two-month period or which is not in operating
condition due to damage or removal or inoperability of one or more tires and
wheels, damage or removal or inoperability of the engine or other essential
parts required for the operation of the vehicle, or which does not have
lawfully affixed thereto a valid state license plate or which constitutes an
immediate health, safety, fire or traffic hazard.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto a valid slats license plate or plates, or the condition of
which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperable or discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any vehicle which is designed to travel along, or on the
ground or water and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf
carts, campers, trailers, boats and farm equipment.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY.  Any real property within the city, which is privately
owned, and which is not public property as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY.  Any street, alley or highway, or boulevard which shall
include the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained for the purposes of vehicular travel, and also means any other
publicly owned property or facility.
(Ord. 219, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 92.36  STORING AND THE LIKE JUNKED VEHICLES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperable, junked
or partially dismantled motor vehicle or parts thereof on private or public
property is a public nuisance, which may be abated as such in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. This section shall not apply to any motor
vehicle fully enclosed within a building on private property or to any motor
vehicle held in connection with a business enterprise, lawfully licensed by the
city and properly operated in the appropriate business zone, pursuant to the
zoning laws of the city.
   (B)   A motor vehicle in operable condition, although not legally licensed,
specifically adopted or designed for operation on drag strips or raceways, may
be kept on private property if kept in a fully enclosed structure during non-
racing seasons.
   (C)   Storing, parking or leaving dismantled or other such motor vehicles on
public property prohibited. No person shall park, store, leave or permit the
parking, storing or leaving of any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperable,
junked or partially motor vehicle of any kind, whether attended or not upon any
public property or right-of-way within the city.
(Ord. 219, passed 10-7-2002)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If a nuisance exists, a notice of violation shall be issued to the
offender, to the concerned property owner and to the person in possession of
the property whereon the offense was committed, directing abatement.
   (B)   Notice may be served upon the offender, the concerned property owner
and the person in possession of the property whereon the offense was committed
by personal service, by registered mail, or by posting notice in a conspicuous
place within the city limits, and by publication for a period of one week in
the legal newspaper of the city.
   (C)   Within seven days after completion of the notice herein above
mentioned in division (B) above, an appeal may be filed by the offender, the
concerned property owner or the person in possession of the property whereon
the offense was committed with the City Council. Within 15 days after filing,
appeal shall be heard before the City Council. All persons who fail to protest
shall be deemed to have waived all objections.
   (D)   Abatement shall be accomplished within seven days after notification
of the decision of the City Council, unless the offender, concerned property
owner or the person in possession of the property whereon the offense was
committed can show cause why more time is needed. Notification of the City
Council shall be mailed by registered or certified mail.
   (E)   If the abatement is not completed within the time mentioned in
division (D) above, the city shall abate the nuisance and file an account with
the City Council, which account shall specify the sum expended in abating said
nuisance.
   (F)   At least seven days after filing of the account herein above mentioned
in division (C) above, the City Council shall hold a hearing. Notice announcing
the time of the City Council meeting shall be mailed by registered or certified
mail to the concerned property owner, to the person in possession and to the
offender at least seven days prior to said hearing.
   (G)   The City Council shall hear the matter and if the account is accepted,
the amount thereof shall become a lien upon the property whereon the offense
was committed.
(Ord. 219, passed 10-7-2002)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
92.01 through
92.04 is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment not to
exceed 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day the violation
exists shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Violation of §
92.23 shall be punishable by a fine of not to exceed $100 or by confinement in
jail of not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   Violation of §§
92.35 through
92.37 is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $200 or by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each
violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989; Ord. 219, passed 10-7-2002; Ord. 236, passed 5-3-
2010)
CHAPTER 93:  FIREWORKS
Section
   
93.01   Restrictions on sale and use
   
93.02   Sale and use permitted
   
93.03   Public displays
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  RESTRICTIONS ON SALE AND USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, or corporation to have or
offer for sale, or sell or shoot, set fire to, or cause to burn or explode
within the city, or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof,
firecrackers, fireworks or pyrotechnics of any kind, character or description
except as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02  SALE AND USE PERMITTED.
   The City Council may, by resolution, suspend the operation of §
93.01, and permit the sale or use of firecrackers, fireworks or other
pyrotechnics within the city at such times, and in such places, and subject to
such conditions, as it shall deem proper, the provisions of §
93.01 notwithstanding.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03  PUBLIC DISPLAYS.
   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the use of a public display of fireworks
provided any individual, firm, partnership or corporation, prior to making such
public display of fireworks shall first secure a written permit so to do from
the City Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall upon conviction thereof by punished by a fine of not to exceed
$100 or imprisonment not to exceed 30-day confinement, or both such fine and
confinement.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 94:  OPEN BURNING
Section
   
94.01   Burning
   
94.02   Definitions
§ 94.01  BURNING.
   (A)   The burning of any material is prohibited within the city unless
authorized by chapter.
   (B)   The burning of refuse and rubbish as defined in §
94.02 is specifically prohibited.
   (C)   Controlled, enclosed incinerators, for the burning of waste materials
that are approved by the State Pollution Control Agency are hereby authorized
provided approval is in writing and a copy thereof is on file with the city.
   (D)   Recreational fires, as defined in §
94.02, are permitted within the city, provided the following requirements are
met:
      (1)   If the recreational fire is contained within a structure, equipment
or apparatus approved by underwriter’s laboratory as safe for the conduction of
said activity or by the Fire Chief; and
      (2)   Such recreational fire may be within ten feet of a structure or
upon a deck or patio.
(Ord. 254, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE.  All other than the fire described as a rubbish fire or
is a rubbish fire including but not limited to fire places, grills, fire pits,
other burning apparatus approved by underwriter’s laboratory and fueled by
wood, wood pellets, grain, newspaper, natural or propane gas or any other
combustible material used in the preparation of food or enjoyment of an open
flame mat has a screen or mesh sufficient to stop the spread of any ash or
materials from leaving the confines of the apparatus.
   REFUSE.  All bulky items, construction and demolition debris, garbage,
household waste, rubbish, rubble, sludge, trees, waste tires, yard waste.
   RUBBISH.  All combustible and organic materials such as papers, rags,
originating from the house is hereby specifically prohibited.
(Ord. 254, passed 7-9-2012)
CHAPTER 95:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
95.01   Sidewalk construction
§ 95.01  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All sidewalks constructed on Main Street in the city, and abutting on
the property hereinafter mentioned and described and within the limits herein
specified, shall be of the kind and character known as cement sidewalks and
shall be constructed in the manner and of the material as required by and
specified in this section; that the district or territory within which such
cement sidewalks are required to be constructed, and the lots, blocks and
premises which will abut on the same are described as follows: to-wit: upon and
along the south side of Block Numbered Four of the recorded plat of the
aforesaid city, and in front of and abutting on Lots Numbered 7-8-9-10-11-12-
13-14-15-16-17-18; upon and along the south side of Block Numbered Five of the
recorded plat of the city, and in front of and abutting on Lots Numbered 7-8-9-
10-11-12-13-14-15-16-17-18, upon and along the south side of Block Numbered Six
of the recorded plat of the aforesaid city, and in front of and abutting on
Lots Numbered 3-4-5-6-7; upon and along the north side of Block Numbered Seven
of the recorded plat of the aforesaid city, and in front of and abutting on
Lots Numbered 1-2-3-4-5-6; upon and along the north side of Block Numbered
Eight of the recorded plat of the aforesaid city, and in front of and abutting
on Lots Numbered 1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10-11-12; upon and along the north side of
Block Numbered Nine and the recorded plat of the aforesaid city, and in front
of and abutting on Lots Numbered 1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10-11-12.
   (B)   Whenever the owner of any of the lots or premises hereinbefore
mentioned and described shall desire to replace the sidewalk now in use in
front of his or her premises by a new one, or whenever the City Council shall
by ordinance or resolution, the new sidewalk so built in the place of the
wooden sidewalk now in use, shall be of the kind and character known as cement
sidewalk and shall be constructed by the property holder, wholly at his or her
own cost and expense and in the manner and of the materials specified in and
provided by this section.
   (C)   Such cement sidewalk herein required to be constructed shall be placed
on the established grade of said street, shall be seven and one-half feet wide
with six inches in addition covered by curb, making a total width of eight
feet, and shall be composed and constructed in the following manner, to-wit:
there shall first be placed a solid foundation of either coarse gravel, cinders
from burnt soft coal, pounded stone or some other like substance which shall be
acceptable to both the property holder and the Council of said city, well
tamped and at least six inches in thickness. On this shall be placed concrete
or grouting composed of gravel and cement well watered and thoroughly-mixed,
and in the proportion of one part cement and five part gravel, which shall be
thoroughly tamped down, and after being so tamped, shall be at least four
inches in thickness. The same shall then be covered by a mixture of cement and
fine sharp lake sand thoroughly mixed in the proportion of three parts cement
and five parts sand and shall be one and one-half inches in thickness. Such
walk, when so constructed, shall slope two inches from building line to curb,
so as to allow all water to flow into the curb. The outer edge of the curb or
such sidewalk shall be set into the ground at least one foot and shall be
constructed wholly of concrete, composed of cement and fine gravel or coarse
sand, and shall not extend above the surface of the outer edge of the walk, but
shall be on the same slope with it, so as to allow the flow of water over it
into the gutter, and the outer side and top of the curb shall be covered with a
substantial coating of cement and fine sand.
(Ord. 15, passed 5-22-1905)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110:  LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   License required, and how obtained
   
110.02   Auctioneers, auction sales
   
110.03   Circuses, theaters, theater buildings and the like
   
110.04   Shooting galleries, fortune tellers, fakirs and the like
   
110.05   Merry-go-rounds and bowling alleys
   
110.06   Term of license
   
110.07   Billiard and pool tables
   
110.08   Obstructing view
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  LICENSE REQUIRED, AND HOW OBTAINED.
   (A)   There shall be required a license fee as hereinafter prescribed upon
the businesses, calling, occupation or institutions, that are hereinafter
named.
   (B)   Any person wishing to obtain a license shall pay to the City Treasurer
the amount provided for by this chapter for which Treasurer shall give a
receipt, designating the kind of license applied for. Upon the presentation of
such receipt to the City Clerk, said Clerk shall forthwith issue the license to
the person named in the receipt.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 110.02  AUCTIONEERS, AUCTION SALES.
   Auctioneers shall pay an annual license of $10 per year; provided, however,
that nothing in this section in relation to auctions and auctioneers shall
extend to any sale of livestock or farm products or to any sale of second hand
furniture by or for any person who shall have actually used the same in this
town, or to any sale of goods, wares or merchandise under or by virtue of any
chattel mortgage, or of any rule or order of any court, or of any law
respecting the collection of any tax or duty either of this state or the United
States, or to any sale made in consequence of any general assignment of
property or effects for the benefit of creditors made in the county, or to any
sale made by or on behalf of any executor or administrator.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 110.03  CIRCUSES, THEATERS, THEATER BUILDINGS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The owner or manager of any circus and menagerie showing under a tent
in the city shall pay $15 per day, for parading and showing, or for parading
only; provided also, that if exhibitions are given in more than one ring in
said circus, an additional license fee of $10 per day shall be paid for each
additional ring.
   (B)   Menageries not accompanying any circus shall pay $10 per day.
   (C)   Each side show accompanying any circus or menagerie for which a
separate admission fee is charged shall pay $5 per day.
   (D)   Each opera house, theater or motion picture show shall pay $10 per
annum, payable quarterly in advance.
   (E)   Each traveling theater, opera, picture show, exhibitor of wax works,
painting, statuary or minstrels, or any person or persons engaged in giving any
public exhibition of any kind whatever for reward or profit, not performed in a
regularly licensed opera house or theater, shall pay $5 per day; provided,
however, that no license shall be required for any lecture or exhibition of a
purely literary or scientific character, nor for other concerns or other public
entertainment given by amateurs for charity uses or for public benefit.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 110.04  SHOOTING GALLERIES, FORTUNE TELLERS, FAKIRS AND THE LIKE.
   Shooting galleries, cane racks, refreshment stands, clairvoyants, fortune
tellers, palm readers and all other stands or establishments of a kindred
nature shall pay $5 per day; provided, however, that in the discretion of the
City Council they may license shooting galleries that desire to remain
permanent for $50 per year, all payable in advance.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 110.05  MERRY-GO-ROUNDS AND BOWLING ALLEYS.
   (A)   Persons running a merry-go-round, or similar attraction shall pay a
license fee of $15 per day.
   (B)   Keepers of bowling alleys or box ball, shall pay an annual license of
$15 per annum for each alley, all payable in advance.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 110.06  TERM OF LICENSE.
   No license fee provided for in this chapter at a fixed sum per day shall be
issued for a less period than one day, and shall be payable in advance.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 110.07  BILLIARD AND POOL TABLES.
   Billiard and pool table keepers for hire or profit shall pay a license as
follows: on billiard and pool tables on which the game of billiards or pool is
played, $12 per annum for the first table, and $8 per annum for each additional
table; bagatelle, Jenny Lind or any other table where games are played, $12 per
annum for each table or board. No license shall be granted under this section
for a less period than to the first Monday in May thereafter, and nobody
owning, keeping or having in charge the place where such tables or devices are
kept, shall allow, permit or suffer any minor to remain in such room or place,
in such buildings which shall be under his or her control, or keep such place
open between the hours of 11:00 p.m., and 8:00 a.m., or on the first day of the
week commonly called Sunday.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 110.08  OBSTRUCTING VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, who, having procured a license as
provided in the preceding section, to conduct such pool hall, or billiard hall,
to so obstruct the windows or doors of the building in which said games are
played, as to prevent the free and unobstructed view of the interior thereof by
persons from the sidewalk on the outside of such building.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon
conviction thereof be fined in a sum not exceeding $50, and stand committed
until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
CHAPTER 111:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Liquor licenses
   
111.02   Open container law
   
111.03   Sale on Sundays; municipal bar
Intoxicating Liquors
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Amount of license and the like
   
111.17   Permits, how obtained
   
111.18   Selling to certain persons
   
111.19   Windows unobstructed and the like
   
111.20   Minors not allowed
   
111.21   Pharmacists excepted
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01  LIQUOR LICENSES.
   Pursuant to the law, § 5.023 of the 1960 Supplement to the South Dakota Code
of 1939 and amendatory acts thereto, has considered its authority to limit the
number of Class C off-sale liquor licenses and Class F on-sale liquor licenses
to be issued by the city for the year 1969, shall be limited to two each;
however the fee to be charged for each license issued shall be based on the
number of licenses that the municipality may charge for, which is two each and
if one license is issued the recipient will pay on the basis of two licenses
the authorized total to said city.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.02  OPEN CONTAINER LAW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have a package or any
receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage in his or her possession in a motor
vehicle or in any public place in the city, unless the seal of the original
package remains unbroken.
   (B)   PUBLIC PLACE is defined as any public place other than upon the
premises of a licensed on-sale dealer where such alcoholic beverage was
purchased from such dealer for on-sale purposes,  and shall mean any place,
whether within or without a building customarily open to or used by the general
public and any street or highway.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  SALE ON SUNDAYS; MUNICIPAL BAR.
   Any on-sale licensee may sell, serve or allow to be consumed alcoholic
beverages on those Sundays, except between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
both on-sale and off-sale.
(Ord. 250, passed 10-3-2011)
INTOXICATING LIQUORS
§ 111.15  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of selling intoxicating liquors at retail within the city without
having first obtained a permit therefor from the corporate authorities of said
city, and paying the license fee as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16  AMOUNT OF LICENSE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The license to be paid for engaging in the business of selling
intoxicating liquors within the corporate limits of the city shall be $1,100
per annum, and for a period of less than a year a pro rata portion of the
yearly license.
   (B)   All permits granted shall terminate with the June 30, next ensuing,
and the license fee for the period for which the license is granted shall be
paid in advance computed from the first day of the month in which the permit is
granted.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 111.17  PERMITS, HOW OBTAINED.
   All applications for permits for the sale of intoxicating liquors in this
city under this chapter shall conform in substance and form with the revised
Political Code of South Dakota, or other statutes or amendments thereto, and
all expense incurred in the making of such applications shall be paid by the
applicant.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 111.18  SELLING TO CERTAIN PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, furnish or give away any
intoxicating liquors to any minor, intoxicated person, or any person in the
habit of getting intoxicated, or to any person to whom the sale has been
forbidden pursuant to law.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19  WINDOWS UNOBSTRUCTED AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be the duty of all persons, their agents or employees, engaged in
the sale of intoxicating liquors under the provisions of this chapter to keep
their respective places of business unobstructed by screens, blinds, plants.
paint or other articles, and not to have the windows located in such manner as
to prevent the free and unobstructed view from the main street into the entire
room or dace wherein such intoxicating liquors are sold. There shall be no
partition of any kind in the room where the liquor business is conducted, nor
any game of cards, dice, billiards, pool or any other game of skill or chance
played in such room, or in any other room or place adjacent thereto, or in the
same building, or any tables, chairs or any kind of seats in said room where
such business is conducted.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20  MINORS NOT ALLOWED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who keeps a place where intoxicating
liquors are sold in the city to allow any minor to visit or remain in such room
or place, unless accompanied by his or her father, mother or guardian.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21  PHARMACISTS EXCEPTED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to apply to any regular licensed
pharmacist insofar as he operates under the exercise of his or her rights as
given by law to such pharmacists in the handling and sale of intoxicating
liquors.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
111.02 shall be punishable by a fine of not to exceed $100 or by confinement in
jail of not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person not excepted violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10 nor more
than $50, and shall stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
CHAPTER 112:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Going upon private residence; nuisance; exceptions
   
112.03   Exceptions to licensing and bond provisions
   
112.04   License fee required
   
112.05   Application for license
   
112.06   Bond required for solicitors and peddlers
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLERS.  A person engaged in the selling of personal property by going
about from place to place or house to house to sell the same and who carries
with him or her such property for delivery at time of sale is a PEDDLER.
   SOLICITORS.  A person engaged in going about from place to place or house to
house soliciting orders for, or offering to sell personal property for future
delivery.
(Ord. passed - -1989)
§ 112.02  GOING UPON PRIVATE RESIDENCE; NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The practice of going in and upon private residence property by
solicitors or peddlers who have not previously been requested or invited so to
do by the owner or occupant thereof for the purpose of soliciting orders for
the sale of personal property or offering to sell personal property for future
deliver, or for the purpose of selling or disposing of personal property
thereon, is declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited, and no person licensed
as a solicitor or peddler hereunder shall thereby be deemed authorized to go
upon any private residence property except with the prior request, invitation
or consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the distribution or sale of religious,
political, economic or educational tracts, pamphlets, papers or periodicals
where the proceeds are to be used exclusively for religious, charitable or
benevolent purposes, not to the distribution or sale of personal property where
the proceeds are to used exclusively for religious, charitable or benevolent
purposes, not to the peddling or soliciting of orders of any agricultural
product or article raised or manufactured by such peddler or solicitor in this
state, except that no person shall go upon any private residence property for
any of such purposes where the owner or occupant thereof has requested such
person not to come thereon for any of such purposes or has placed on said
premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign indicating
that the occupants of said premises do not desire to be molested or have their
rights of privacy disturbed by distributors, solicitors or peddlers of any such
personal property, articles or publications, or to have any person come on to
said premises for any of such purposes.
(Ord. passed - -1989)
§ 112.03  EXCEPTIONS TO LICENSING AND BOND PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter with reference to the bonding and licensing
of peddlers and solicitors shall not apply to traveling salesman doing business
exclusively with retailers, merchants, manufacturers, jobbers or with public
officials, nor to the peddling or soliciting of orders for any agricultural
products or manufactured goods raised or manufactured in this state by the
person selling or soliciting the sale of the same, nor to any solicitor who
does not demand or accept payment of money or any deposit in advance, nor to
any solicitor whose terms do not require payment of any money or deposit on
delivery without the privilege of examination, nor to the distribution or sale
of newspapers nor to distribution or sale of personal property where the
proceeds are to be used exclusively for religious, charitable or benevolent
purposes, nor the distribution or sale of religions, political, economic or
education tracts, pamphlets or periodicals where the proceeds are to be used
exclusively for religious, charitable or benevolent purposes.
(Ord. passed - -1989)
§ 112.04  LICENSE FEE REQUIRED.
   No person shall deal as a peddler or solicitor as defined by this chapter
without having procured license as herein required and no two or more persons
shall deal under the same license as partners, agents or otherwise. The license
fee for a solicitor, peddler shall be $10 per day.
(Ord. passed - -1989)
§ 112.05  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   The application for license shall state the name of the applicant, permanent
address of applicant, whether he or she transacts business for himself or
herself or someone else and, if someone else, the name and address of the
person, firm or corporation he or she represents, the nature and character of
the property to be sold, whether he or she sells and delivers the property
directly to the purchaser or whether he or she solicits or takes orders for it
by carrying samples or catalogs, the manner in which he or she intends to
travel and the character of the vehicle he or she intends to use in traveling,
copies of the contracts and agreements he or she intends to make with the
customers, and how he or she intends to operate within the city.
(Ord. passed - -1989)
§ 112.06  BOND REQUIRED FOR SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS.
   Every solicitor or peddler before receiving a license shall file in the
office of the City Finance Officer, a bond in the penal sum of $250 for the
faithful performance and obligation of such solicitor or peddler arising in
connection with his or her business as such, and for the payment of all claims
for damages for which he or she may become liable through fraud, deceit or
otherwise in the course of his or her business as such solicitor or peddler.
(Ord. passed - -1989)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PUBLIC OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS
      
132.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130:  PUBLIC OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Profane or disorderly language
   
130.03   Profane or vulgar language in presence of females and children
   
130.04   Insulting females
   
130.05   Aiding resistance to, or escape from officer
   
130.06   Indecent exhibition
   
130.07   Indecent exposure of person
   
130.08   Spitting in sidewalk
   
130.09   Drunkenness
   
130.10   Discharging firearms or fireworks
   
130.11   False alarm of fire
   
130.12   Diseased meat, impure food
   
130.13   Defacing property
   
130.14   Inciting dogs to fight
   
130.15   Cruelty to animals
   
130.16   Vagrants
   
130.17   Enticing prostitution
   
130.18   Enticing to house of prostitution or assignation
   
130.19   Keeping bawdy house
   
130.20   Burglar’s tools and the like
   
130.21   Defrauding
   
130.22   Gambling
   
130.23   Keeping gambling apparatus
   
130.24   Keeping gambling establishments
   
130.25   Keeping gambling tables and the like
   
130.26   Seizure of implements authorized
   
130.27   Destroyed upon conviction
   
130.28   Persuading persons to visit gambling places
§ 130.01  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Whosoever shall within the limits of the city, disturb the peace of the
city, any lawful assembly of persons, or of any neighborhood, family, person or
persons, or who shall be guilty of quarreling, assaulting or striking any
person, or fighting, shall be fined not less than $1, and not more than $50,
and stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.02  PROFANE OR DISORDERLY LANGUAGE.
   No person in the city shall curse, swear, quarrel or use any violent,
obscene or threatening language, or make any threats against the person or
property of any person or persons, and any person so doing shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not less than $1 nor more than $50, and
stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.03  PROFANE OR VULGAR LANGUAGE IN PRESENCE OF FEMALES AND CHILDREN.
   Any person who shall, in the city, use any profane, vulgar or obscene
language, in any street or other public place, in the presence of any female,
or any child under the age of 14 years, shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined in any sum not exceeding $25, and stand committed until such fine is
paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.04  INSULTING FEMALES.
   Any person who shall, in the city, make impudent, insulting or licentious
advance to any female person, upon any street, or in any store, or in any other
public place shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not exceeding
$50, and stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.05  AIDING RESISTANCE TO, OR ESCAPE FROM OFFICER.
   No person shall, in the city, aid or assist any person to resist or escape
from any officer, or from the lawful confinement of this city, and any person
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50 and stand committed
until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.06  INDECENT EXHIBITION.
   Any person who shall, in the city, make an indecent exposure of his or her
person shall, upon conviction, be fined in a sum not exceeding $50, and stand
committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.07  INDECENT EXPOSURE OF PERSON.
   No person or persons shall give, allow, perform or suffer to be performed,
either by himself or herself or agent or employee, any indecent exhibition,
tending to offend or corrupt public morals, in the city; and no person shall
indecently exhibit any stud horse or bull, or other animal, or let any such
horse to any mare, or any bull to any cows, unless in some enclosed place out
of view, and any person convicted thereof shall be fined in a sum not less than
$1, nor more than $50, and shall stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.08  SPITTING ON SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate upon the
sidewalks in the city, and any person, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
in the sum not exceeding $10, and stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.09  DRUNKENNESS.
   Any person who shall, in the city, be found drunk or intoxicated in any
public place shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not to exceed $50, and
stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.10  DISCHARGING FIREARMS OR FIREWORKS.
   Any person who shall, in the city, discharge or shoot off any gun, pistol or
other firearm, or discharge within the fire limits any firecrackers, rockets or
any other piece of fireworks shall, upon conviction, be fined not to exceed
$25, and stand committed until such fine is paid; provided, however, that the
City Council, or the President thereof, may suspend the operation of this
section on the Fourth of July, or any other day of public rejoicing.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.11  FALSE ALARM OF FIRE.
   Any person who shall, in this city, knowingly or willfully create a false
alarm of fire shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not to
exceed $25, and stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.12  DISEASED MEAT, IMPURE FOOD.
   Any person who shall sell, or offer for sale, either by himself or herself,
agent or employee, any spoiled, diseased or rotten meat or provisions of any
kind, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50, and stand
committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.13  DEFACING PROPERTY.
   No person shall wantonly mar, injure, destroy or deface any fence, guide
post, sign board or awning, or any building, or any tree, bush or shrub,
telephone or electric wires, or any other property in any street or public or
private place in the city, and upon conviction thereof, shall pay a fine of not
to exceed $50, and stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.14  INCITING DOGS TO FIGHT.
   Any person who shall, in the city, by words, signs or otherwise, set any dog
or dogs to fighting, or to attack any other dog or dogs, or who shall aid or
abet any dog fight; or any owner, keeper or harborer of any dog who shall
knowingly permit such dog to fight, without endeavoring to prevent the same; or
any person who shall, by words, signs or otherwise, set on or encourage any dog
to attack or chase any human being, not engaged in any malicious act, shall,
upon conviction, be fined not to exceed $25, and stand committed until such
fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.15  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   Any person who shall, in the city, cruelly or immoderately beat any horse,
mule or cow, or other animal, on wantonly or maliciously torture or injure any
animal; or shall leave standing on the street or any other place any horse,
mule, team or other animal, unprotected for an unreasonable length of time; or
shall neglect to properly take care of, or feed any such animal; or who shall
overload or overwork or overdrive any horse, or other working animal, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50, and stand committed until
such fine is paid. The City Marshal or other proper authority shall take such
action as may be necessary for the immediate protection of such animal or
animals.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.16  VAGRANTS.
   All idle and suspicious persons who, not having visible means of maintaining
themselves, live without employment; all persons who shall be found loitering
about the streets, or who shall follow no labor, trade or occupation, and
having no visible means of support, and give no reasonable account of
themselves or their business; all persons wandering abroad, lodging in beer
saloons, outhouses, sheds, barns, railroad cars or in the open air not able to
give a good account of themselves; all male persons who live in or about houses
of ill-fame; all lewd, wanton or lascivious persons in speech or behavior; all
persons who go from door to door, or place themselves in any street or alley or
other public place to beg or receive alms, shall be deemed vagrants, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $50, and stand
committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.17  ENTICING PROSTITUTION.
   Any person who shall, in the city, or within one mile of the outer
boundaries thereof, entice to prostitution, or follow the calling of a
prostitute, shall, upon conviction, be fined not exceeding $50, and stand
committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.18  ENTICING TO HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION OR ASSIGNATION.
   Any person who shall, in the city, or within one mile from the outer
boundaries thereof, entice or attempt to entice any person, male or female,
into a house of prostitution or assignation, shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $50, and stand committed until such fine
is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.19  KEEPING BAWDY HOUSE.
   Every person who, in the city, or within one mile of the outer boundaries
thereof, shall keep any bawdy house, house of ill fame, or assignation, or
whoever shall erect, establish, continue, maintain, use, own or lease any
building, erection or place or the ground itself, in or upon which lewdness,
assignation or prostitution is practiced or carried on, shall be fined not less
than $10 nor more than $50, and stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.20  BURGLAR’S TOOLS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any
nippers of the description known as burglar’s nippers, pick lock, skeleton key,
key to be used with bit or bits, jimmy or other burglar’s tools or instruments
of whatsoever kind or description, unless it be shown that such possession is
innocent, or for a lawful purpose, and any person convicted thereof shall be
fined in a sum not exceeding $50, and stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.21  DEFRAUDING.
   Any person who shall, within the city, by any device or by fraud, defraud or
attempt to defraud, any person out of money or anything of value shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $5 nor more than $50, and stand committed
until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.22  GAMBLING.
   No person shall, in the city, play at any game of chance, with cards, dice,
gambling tables or any other gambling device, upon which money or any other
article of value is staked, and any person shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $50, and stand committed until such fine
is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.23  KEEPING GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful in this city to maintain or keep any table, cards or
any other article or apparatus whatever, used or intended to be used, in
playing cards, or other games of chance for money or other property, and any
person convicted thereof, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $50,
and stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.24  KEEPING GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   No person shall keep any building, or part of any building, or any other
place in the city, to be used or occupied for gambling, or wherein any game of
chance for money or other property is played, and any person, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $50, and shall stand
committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.25  KEEPING GAMBLING TABLES AND THE LIKE.
   No person or persons shall set up or keep or maintain, or permit to be set
up, kept or maintained within their place of business in the city, any device
of any kind for the purpose of gambling, or with which money or anything of
value shall be played for, and any person shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not less than $5 nor more than $50, and stand committed until such fine
is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.26  SEIZURE OF IMPLEMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   Every person who is authorized or enjoined to arrest any person for
violations of §§
130.21,
130.22,
130.23,
130.24, is equally authorized and enjoined to seize any tables, cards or device
used or suitable to be used for gambling purposes, found in the possession of
or under the control of the person so arrested, and to deliver the same to the
Justice of the Peace with whom the complaint against the person so arrested is
filed.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.27  DESTROYED UPON CONVICTION.
   Upon the conviction of the accused, the court before whom such conviction is
had, shall cause such thing used or suitable to be used for gambling purposes,
in respect whereof the accused stands convicted, and which remain in the
possession or under the control of such court, to be destroyed.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 130.28  PERSUADING PERSONS TO VISIT GAMBLING PLACES.
   Every person who persuades another in the city to visit any building or part
of building, or any other place in this city, used or occupied for the purpose
of gambling, and in consequence thereof, such person gambles therein, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5 or more than $50, and shall
stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
CHAPTER 131:  WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Drawing deadly weapons
   
131.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
131.03   Air rifles
§ 131.01  DRAWING DEADLY WEAPONS.
   Any person, not an officer of the law in the execution of his or her duty,
who shall, in the city, draw any pistol, revolver, knife or other dangerous or
deadly weapon upon another person, shall upon conviction thereof be punished by
a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $50, and stand committed until such
fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 131.02  CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   Any person, not an officer of the law in the execution of his or her duty,
who shall carry concealed about his person any firearm, slingshot, sheath or
dirk knife, brass knuckles or any other weapon, which, when used, is likely to
produce death or great bodily harm, shall pay a fine of not less than $5 nor
more than $50, and stand committed until such fine is paid.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 131.03  AIR RIFLES.
   The City Council prohibited the discharging of any air rifle within the city
limits. Anyone violating this section will be prosecuted under penalty of $5
fine and confiscation of gun.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 132:  CURFEW
Section
   
132.01   Unlawful to be on street
   
132.02   Duty of officer
   
132.03   Duty of City Marshal or appointee
§ 132.01  UNLAWFUL TO BE ON STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any child or minor under the age of 16 years to be
in or upon any public street or alley within the city between the hours of 9:00
p.m., and 5:00 a.m., from May 1 to October 1: 8:00 p.m. from October 1 to May 1
unless such child or minor is accompanied by its parents or one of them, or its
legal guardian, or shall be engaged in the performance of some duty under the
direction of such parent or guardian.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 132.02  DUTY OF OFFICER.
   It shall be the duty of the Marshal or other peace officer of the city who
shall find any child or minor under the age of 16 years in or upon any public
street or alley of the city as aforesaid, and in violation of §
132.01, to take such minor into his or her custody and control, and conduct him
or her as soon as possible to his or her place of residence; provided, that if
such minor shall be found violating the provisions of §
132.01 within one month of such first offense, he or she shall be taken
forthwith, or as soon as possible, before the Justice of the Peace of the city,
and dealt with according to law, and upon conviction of such second offense
shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $10.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 132.03  DUTY OF CITY MARSHAL OR APPOINTEE.
   It shall be the duty of the City Marshal, or someone appointed by him or
her, to toll the hour with a bell of the city at 9:00 p.m. from May 1 to
October 1, or at 8:00 p.m., from October 1 to May 1 of each day, to indicate
the arrival of the curfew hour.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   FENCES, HEDGES AND TREES
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Buildings within fire limits
   
150.02   Chimneys
   
150.03   Removal of buildings
   
150.04   Repair of buildings
   
150.05   Applications for permits
   
150.06   Inspection of buildings and chimneys
   
150.07   Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings
   
150.08   Removal and destruction of buildings
Residential Rental Units
   
150.20   Purpose
   
150.21   Definition
   
150.22   Registration
   
150.23   Registration permit cost
   
150.24   Manner of registration
   
150.25   Expiration
   
150.26   Property transfers
   
150.27   No waiver of code compliance
   
150.28   Control
   
150.29   Failure to register
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  BUILDINGS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   All buildings or structures, or any and all additions to any buildings or
structures, hereafter built, erected or constructed on any of the lots in
Blocks 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the city, for any purposes, shall be built or
constructed of stone, cement blocks or brick, and shall be placed upon a solid
stone, brick or equally good foundation. The weather covering of all roofs
within said fire limits shall be of incombustible material. No uncovered tar
composition, rosin felt or wood work shall in any way be exposed upon any roof
within said fire limits, and dormer windows, cornices, moldings, balconies, bay
windows, towers and spires, not composed of incombustible material, shall be
covered with metal; provided, that nothing herein contained shall be construed
as prohibiting the erection within said fire limits of any building, the outer
walls of which shall be composed of wood, which building shall be not more than
ten feet square and eight feet high and shall not be attached to or within 20
feet of any other wooden structure; provided, also, that the City Council is
hereby empowered, when in their judgment the public safety will not be
endangered, or the fire hazard increased, to grant permits for the erection of
buildings within the fire limits, which erection is prohibited by the
provisions of this section, upon application of the owner or owners, of the lot
or lots upon which it is desired to erect such structure, provided that no such
permit shall be granted for any such building to be erected within 50 feet of
Main Street. All applications for such permits shall be made in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter in regard to application for permit to erect
buildings.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 150.02  CHIMNEYS.
   No chimney erected in or upon any building within the fire limits of the
city shall have less than four-inch walls, nor be less than five feet above a
flat roof, or three feet above a pitch roof or ridge, and shall be plastered
from base to top inside, and well laid in good strong mortar. All fireplaces
shall have at least eight-inch walls extending five feet above fire box, and
all stove pipes shall enter chimneys at least 14 inches below the ceiling.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 150.03  REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS.
   No building within said fire limits shall be removed to any other place
within said fire limits, nor shall any building be removed from without to
within said fire limits, unless such building, if erected at such place of
removal, would have been in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 150.04  REPAIR OF BUILDINGS.
   If any building or structure within the fire limits of the city shall have
become damaged by fire, decay or any other cause, to the extent of half its
value, or shall in any manner become a menace to public safety, the City
Council may proceed to condemn the same and declare it to be a nuisance and
order it to be immediately removed or repaired at the expense of the owner or
person in possession thereof. Notice of such order of condemnation by the City
Council shall be served upon the owner or person in possession of such
property, if a resident of the county, and, if such owner or person in
possession of such property be a nonresident of said county, then by
publication of such notice in the official paper of the city for a period of
three successive weeks. And if the owner or person in possession shall fail or
refuse to repair or remove the same, then it shall, be removed by the city at
the cost and expense of such owner or person in possession, which said cost and
expense may be recovered from such owner in a civil action, brought in the name
of the city.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 150.05  APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to erect any building or structure within the fire
limits of the city, or to remove any building already erected to or within said
fire limits shall make application to the City Council in writing for a permit
to make such erection or removal, which said application shall state the
location of the structure, number and height of stories, dimensions of joists
and chimneys, their distance apart, dimensions of supporting iron work, for
what purpose the building or structure is designed, plan of foundation and
chimneys and chimney rests, and such other items as the City Council may
require. Such application shall be signed by the applicant, his or her
architect or agent, and shall constitute a contract that said building or
structure and all parts thereof shall be constructed in all parts thereof in
accordance with said detailed statement and the plans and specifications
submitted to the City Council, and in accordance with the provisions of the
ordinances of the city. And it shall not be lawful to proceed to construct,
alter or repair any building within the fire limits of the city without permit
issued upon said application by the City Council, or not in compliance with
said plans, specifications or detailed statement.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)
§ 150.06  INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS AND CHIMNEYS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Marshal, or other person designated by the
City Council, between October 1 and November 1 of each year, to inspect the
heating arrangement and chimneys of all buildings situated within the fire
limits of the city. Whenever such person shall find by such inspection that any
chimney or flue in any building is in an unsafe condition on account of the
liability of fire originating therefrom to be communicated to other woodwork or
other combustible material adjacent thereto, he or she shall serve a notice in
writing upon the owner, agent or occupant of such building, forthwith to repair
said chimney or flue so as to make it conform to the requirements of this
chapter, and to cease at once the use of the same in connection with, any
stove, furnace or other apparatus in which fire is used and smoke conducted
through said defective chimney or flue. Each day’s violation of the
requirements of this notice, or each day that said defective chimney or flue is
used after service of said notice, shall constitute a separate offense, for
which, upon conviction, the owner or occupant of said building shall be subject
to the penalties provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 28, passed 11-10-1914)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07  UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It is adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and structures,
including permits and penalties, located within the corporate limits of the
city for the abatement of dangerous buildings, that certain Uniform Code known
as the Uniform Code,  being particularly the 1982 edition, including the
appendix all published by the International Conference of Building Officials:
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1982 Edition and the
whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, 
modified or amended, of which not less than one copy has been and now is filed
in the office of the finance officer, and the same is adopted and incorporated
as fully as if set out at length herein,  and from the date on which the
ordinance codified herein shall take effect. The provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   The governing body is authorized to adopt and the Building Inspector
and Health Officer shall promulgate rules and regulations deemed necessary for
the proper and effective administration of the provisions of this section. Such
rules and regulations shall be consistent with the provision of this section
and the standards established herein.
(Ord. 153, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08  REMOVAL AND DESTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No building of any type shall be removed from its location within the
city, or destroyed, until a permit is issued by the city. The charge for such
permit shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   The permit shall specify the date by which the removal or destruction
shall be completed.
   (C)   The applicant shall conduct said removal or destruction in a careful
and expedient manner and shall ensure that the building site is cleaned and
filled to the satisfaction of the City Council.
   (D)   Applicant shall submit with his or her application a cash bond in the
amount of $3,000 for residential properties and $10,000 for commercial and
multiple family dwelling properties in the case of destruction or removal to
insure and indemnify the city, should the applicant fail to clean and fill the
site,  or cause any damage to any property by virtue of removal or destruction,
including, but not limited to, streets, water lines and sewer lines.
   (E)   The bond moneys shall be deposited in escrow at the bank of the
applicant’s choice, in an interest bearing savings account, in the name of the
city, any accrued interest shall inure to the benefit of the applicant.
   (F)   Should the City Council determine that the applicant has not complied
with the terms and conditions of the permit, the city may employ the services
and purchase any material necessary to complete the site cleanup and to repair
any damages.
   (G)   Upon completion of the building removal or destruction, the City
Council shall release any unused bond proceeds and accrued interest to the
applicant.
   (H)   The city, in addition to the above, reserves the right to all of its
remedies at law concerning any claim which may arise from the removal or
destruction of buildings.
(Ord. 153, passed - -; Ord. 201, passed 11-6-1995)
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNITS
§ 150.20  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the citizens of the city by requiring registration of residential rental
housing units.
(Ord. 240, passed - -2008)
§ 150.21  DEFINITION.
   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNIT means any building or structure including the real
property upon which it is located, which is rented or offered for rent as
living quarters. It does not mean on-campus housing, hospital units, nursing
home units or hotels or motels with daily rental units, or temporary rental
arrangements to immediate family members, all of which shall be exempt from any
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 240, passed - -2008)
§ 150.22  REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No person shall allow to be occupied, advertise for occupancy, solicit
occupants of, or let to another person for occupancy any residential rental
unit within the city that has not been registered as residential rental unit by
the city.
   (B)   A residential rental property owner and/or the designated agent shall
notify the city in writing within 20 calendar days after any change to the
information.
   (C)   The registration shall require the following information:
      (1)   Name, mailing address and phone number of the property owner, and
if the owner is not a natural person, the name, address and phone number of a
designated agent for the owner;
      (2)   The legal description and street address of the residential rental
unit; and
      (3)   The number and type of units; i.e., dwelling units or sleeping
rooms.
(Ord. 240, passed - -2008)
§ 150.23  REGISTRATION PERMIT COST.
   There shall be no cost or other fee charged for the registration of rental
properties pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 240, passed - -2008)
§ 150.24  MANNER OF REGISTRATION.
   This subchapter shall become effective on January 1, 2009 and all owners of
residential rental units shall register with the city by that date.
(Ord. 240, passed - -2008)
§ 150.25  EXPIRATION.
   Each registration shall expire either on December 31 in the third year
following the year of issuance or earlier when such registration shall
immediately expire and be considered revoked.
(Ord. 240, passed - -2008)
§ 150.26  PROPERTY TRANSFERS.
   To transfer a registration for a residential rental unit from one owner to
another, the applicant shall give notice, including the name and address of the
transferee, to the city of the transfer within 30 days after such transfer. Any
registration for a residential rental unit being transferred shall expire upon
its original expiration date.
(Ord. 240, passed - -2008)
§ 150.27  NO WAIVER OF CODE COMPLIANCE.
   No registration for a residential rental unit shall be deemed to cure, waive
or grant a right of continued operation for property that is determined to be
in violation of any applicable ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 240, passed - -2008)
§ 150.28  CONTROL.
   The Finance Officer, under the direction of the City Council, shall
accomplish the registration of residential rental housing units.
(Ord. 240, passed - -2008)
§ 150.29  FAILURE TO REGISTER.
   Failure to register as herein prescribed shall be punishable pursuant to §
150.99.
(Ord. 240, passed - -2008)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
150.07 or any provisions of any rule or regulations adopted and promulgated
thereunder is guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day’s violation is a separate
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not to exceed $100, or confinement for a
period of not to exceed 30 days, or both such fine and confinement.
(Ord. 153, passed - -)
CHAPTER 151:  FENCES, HEDGES AND TREES
Section
   
151.01   Corner visibility
   
151.02   Other than corner
   
151.03   Within building lines
   
151.04   Measurement rule
   
151.05   Exception, Board of Adjustment
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  CORNER VISIBILITY.
   Except in zones allowing the construction of buildings or structures to the
property line, there shall be provided an unobstructed view across the triangle
formed by joining points measured 20 feet distant along the property line from
the intersection of two streets or 15 feet along both the street and alley line
from the intersection of a street and an alley. Within said triangle, there
shall be no sight obscuring or partial obscuring wall, fence, object or foliage
higher than 30 inches above grade or in the case of trees, foliage lower than
eight feet. Vertical measurement shall be made at the top of the curb on the
street or alley adjacent to the nearest side of the triangle or if no curb
exists, from the edge of the nearest traveled way. No planting, object or wall
shall be permitted within the street right-of-way.
(Ord. 238, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 151.02  OTHER THAN CORNER.
   A fence, wall and/or hedge not exceeding 80 inches in height above the
ground level may be erected or maintained upon any zoning lot, except that no
fence, wall or hedge located within a front yard shall be erected, placed,
planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision of
intersection streets.
   (A)   Solid fences, walls and hedges extending past the building setback
into the front yard and side yard setback on corner lots shall not exceed 24
inches in height above the ground level, and fences of a chain-link material
extending past the building setback into the front yard shall not exceed 48
inches in height above the ground level.
   (B)   No person shall hereafter construct, erect or maintain or cause to be
constructed, erected or maintained, in the city limits of this city any fences
of any character or material, without first securing a building permit from the
City Council. Further, no such fence of any kind shall be built closer than two
feet to the inside sidewalk line or street right-of-way, and no electric fence
or fence with barbed wire be constructed in any residential district fence
within the city limits. Except that barbed wire may be used in connection with
a security fence when the barbed wire is at least six feet from the ground.
   (C)   Fences which are adjacent to alleys shall be set back ten feet from
the street/boulevard right-of-way.
   (D)   Trees that have foliage hanging over sidewalks or street right-of-way
shall be trimmed to clear such sidewalk or street right-of-way by eight feet,
and no shrubbery, hedges or coniferous trees shall be planted, or objects be
permitted in the street right-of-way, and if such plantings or objects are
within the street right-of-way, the city shall not be held liable for removal
or damage when such street right-of-way shall be used for lawful street right-
of-way purposes.
(Ord. 238, passed 9-8-2008)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03  WITHIN BUILDING LINES.
   Fences and hedges erected within a portion of a zoning lot on which a
principal building, but not an accessory building, may be erected shall conform
to height limits of buildings which may be erected on such lot, but shall be
subject to any Building Code provisions which may be applicable.
(Ord. 238, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 151.04  MEASUREMENT RULE.
   Heights of fences, hedges and other continuous foliage shall be measured
from the adjacent top of the street curb, surface of an alley or the official
established grade thereof, whichever is the higher. On inside lot lines
measurement shall be from the average of the lot line of the parcel or property
having the lower elevation.
(Ord. 238, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 151.05  EXCEPTION, BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The City Council may approve, or may direct as a condition for granting an
appeal, that fences or plantings of a height in excess of these regulations be
placed as shielding between different uses, or between like uses upon agreement
between the parties affected thereby, provided that no such approval shall have
the effect of reducing corner visibility as provided for herein.
(Ord. 238, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter is a Class 2 misdemeanor punishable by a fine not
to exceed $500 or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. Each violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 238, passed 9-8-2008)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Authorization, findings, purpose
   
152.02   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   General provisions
   
152.05   Administration
   
152.06   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
§ 152.01  AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS, PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has in (state
statute delegating authority) delegated the responsibility to local government
units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council does ordain as
follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions to specific areas by provisions designed:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      (7)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      (8)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 152.02  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 152.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. 
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement.
      (2)   This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (3)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state of local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
(Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 152.04  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
areas within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (C)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions; however, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (D)   Interpretation. In the interpretation of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statute.
   (E)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This chapter shall not create
liability on the city, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 152.05  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Establishment of development permit. A development permit shall be
obtained before construction or development begins within the community.
Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished by the
city and may include, but not be limited to: plans in duplicate drawn to scale
showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities and the location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Designation of the local administrator. The City Council is hereby
appointed to administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying
development permit applications in accordance with its provisions.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the City Council. Duties of the City
Council shall include, but not be limited to, permit review:
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied and to determine whether
proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that permits have been
obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required; and
      (3)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the flood-prone
area. For the purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means damage to
adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to physical
changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
         (a)   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration.
         (b)   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then
technical justification (i.e., a registered professional engineer’s
certification) for the proposed development shall be required.
         (c)   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions
of this chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 204, passed - -)
§ 152.06  PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. If a proposed building site is located in a flood-
prone area, all new construction and substantial improvements (including the
placement of manufactured homes) shall conform to the following standards.
      (1)   Anchoring.  All new construction and substantial improvements shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
and capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
      (2)   Construction materials and methods.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         (c)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
      (3)   Utilities.
         (a)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
         (b)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
         (c)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (4)   Subdivision proposals.
         (a)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
         (b)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
         (c)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage.
(Ord. 204, passed - -)
CHAPTER 153:  SIGNS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose and intent
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Agricultural Districts
   
153.04   Residential Districts
   
153.05   Commercial Districts
   
153.06   Signs in public right-of-way
   
153.07   Political signs
§ 153.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   These regulations provide standards for the location and erection of
on-site and off-site signs. Regardless of the character of the sign or its
message content, all signs placed or erected, and signs that are attached to,
or painted onto existing structures shall comply with the sections herein. The
purpose of this chapter is to prevent the uncontrolled use and placement of
signs, and to promote public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   It is the intent of these regulations to provide for the safety of
persons and property by providing signs that do not create a hazard due to
collapse, decay or lack of maintenance. Further, that all signs are placed so
that they do not become a traffic hazard by impairing a driver’s visibility at
intersections, driveways, seeing pedestrians, obstacles or other vehicles; and
that they are not confusing to motorists and hinder their ability to see and
interpret any official traffic sign, signal or device.
   (C)   All signs and banners shall be maintained in a safe and legible
condition at all times, including the replacement of defective parts of the
sign structure, painting, repainting, cleaning and other services required for
maintenance of said signs and banners, including fastening and securing. Unsafe
and abandoned signs/banners shall be removed or brought into compliance within
five calendar days upon notice from the Finance Office.
   (D)   To protect the public welfare and to enhance the appearance and
economic value of the affected property, no signs shall be erected that:
      (1)   Create a nuisance to persons using the public right-of-way; and
      (2)   Constitute or create a nuisance to occupancy of adjacent and
contiguous property by their brightness, size, height, appearance and/or
purpose.
   (E)   All signs placed in or adjacent to any state controlled right-of-way
are subject to the requirements of the State Department of Transportation and
may require a permit from the state, as well as from the city, to be placed.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 153.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANNER SIGNS.  Signs constructed without a frame and usually made of cloth,
canvas or plastic and secured with ropes or cables.
   BILLBOARD SIGNS. 
      (1)   Any structure or portion thereof, situated on private property on
which lettered, figured or pictorial matter is displayed for advertising
purposes, but not the name and occupation of the user of the premises, the
nature of the business conducted on the premises or the products primarily sold
or manufactured on the premises and having an area of 50 square feet or more.
      (2)   Any signboard carrying a message meeting this definition that also
carries extraneous advertising of 50 square feet or more shall be considered a
BILLBOARD.
      (3)   This definition shall not include any board, sign or surface used
to display any official notices issued by a court or public duty, bulletin
boards used to display announcement of meetings to be held on the premises on
which such bulletin boards are located, nor shall it include real estate sign
advertising for sale or rent the property upon which it stands when such sign
does not exceed 50 square feet.
   FREESTANDING SIGNS.  Signs that are mounted vertically on a pedestal or base
and are semi-permanently attached to its base or footing.
   OFF-SITE SIGNS.  Signs that are placed on or off the owner’s property, but
that call attention to a location other than where the sign is located.
   ON-SITE SIGNS.  Signs that are placed on the owner’s property and call
attention only to the property on which they are placed.
   POLITICAL SIGNS.  Signs that promote a political candidate, a political
issue, or both.
   PORTABLE SIGNS.  Signs that can be freely moved about and do not require any
tools or construction to install them. Usually, PORTABLE SIGNS are considered
‘A’ BOARD SIGNS.
   PROJECTING SIGNS.  Signs that are placed against a structure and project out
away from the face of the structure. The sign does not have to project at a
right angle to be considered a PROJECTING SIGN.
   SIGN.  Any device, which directs attention to business, commodity, service
or entertainment but not including any flag, badge or insignia of any
government agency, or any civic, charitable, religious, patriotic or similar
organizations.
   WALL SIGNS.  Signs that are placed flat against a structure, fence or wall.
Signs that are painted onto a wall, fence or structure are also considered WALL
SIGNS.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 153.03  AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS.
   The following uses are permitted as accessory to the principal permitted
uses in the Agricultural District.
   (A)   On-site.
      (1)   Signs not over 18 square feet in area identifying the occupants or
the activity engaged in on the premises and provided there is not over two
square feet of extraneous advertising matter on any such sign.
      (2)   Signs can be freestanding, projecting, portable or wall type signs.
      (3)   Signs must be located entirely on the premises. No part of the sign
or attached parts may extend past the property line.
      (4)   Signs, including pedestal, posts and bases, may not exceed 30 feet
in height.
      (5)   Signs not to exceed two square feet in area identifying the
premises and occupant, but not including advertising matter.
   (B)   Off-site.
      (1)   No off-site signs are permitted in agricultural zoning except that
contractor signs no larger than six square feet and not more than five feet in
height may be placed on an agricultural lot only while that contractor is
working at that lot. Contractor signs must be removed within ten days after
substantial completion of the project.
      (2)   Off-site signs as permitted by §
153.07.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 153.04  RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   On-site.
      (1)   Signs can be freestanding, projecting, portable or wall type signs.
      (2)   Signs not to exceed two square feet in area identifying the
premises and occupant, but not including advertising matter. Public, churches,
chapels and public and quasi-public buildings for cultural use, may have
identification signs not to exceed 20 square feet in area.
      (3)   Home occupation signs identifying the home occupation, no larger
than one square foot in size, attached flat against the building and unlighted.
However, advertising displays and advertising devices displayed through a
window of the building shall not be permitted.
      (4)   Real estate sales signs not over six square feet in area and
relating to the property on which the sign is located. Real estate signs must
be entirely on the lot and must not be in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Off-site.
      (1)   No off-site signs are permitted in residential zoning except that
contractor signs no larger than six square feet and not more than five feet in
height may be placed on a residential lot only while that contractor is working
at that lot. Contractor signs must be removed within ten days after substantial
completion of the project.
      (2)   Off-site signs as permitted by §
153.07.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 153.05  COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   On-site.
      (1)   Signs can be freestanding, projecting, portable, banner or wall
type signs.
      (2)   All on-site advertising signs, which are not attached to or made
part of a commercial structure, shall be located on the zoning lot in such a
manner that no portion of the sign shall overhand street right-of-way or
adjoining property.
      (3)   All signs attached to a building or commercial structure shall be
three feet behind the curb and eight feet above any adjacent walking surface.
      (4)   No sign shall be larger than 200 square feet in size and shall not
exceed 50 feet in height.
   (B)   Off-site.
      (1)   Contractor signs no larger than six square feet and not more than
five feet in height may be placed on a lot only while that contractor is
working at that lot. Contractor signs must be removed within ten days after
substantial completion of the project.
      (2)   Off-site signs as permitted by §
153.07.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 153.06  SIGNS IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person, agency or group shall place, attach, paint on or affix to
any appurtenance within the public right-of-way, any type of sign or directions
to any activity or place without prior approval of the City Council. Exception:
governmental agencies may place informational, directional and traffic signs
within their own jurisdiction as deemed necessary.
   (B)   Political signs that are in compliance with §
153.07 are allowed.
   (C)   Temporary road construction and warning signs that are required for
the safe passage of vehicle and/or pedestrian traffic and that are approved by
the State Department of Transportation or the City Council are allowed.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 153.07  POLITICAL SIGNS.
   (A)   With the exception of bumper stickers placed on licensed motor
vehicles, no person shall place or display any political candidate or election
issue signs on public or private property prior to four weeks before any
election and all such signs shall be removed within 48 hours following the
election.
      (1)   Political candidate or election issue signs up to 32 square feet in
size, when located on their own rented or leased space of a vacant lot not in
residential zoning, but within a use zone allowing on-site advertising, may be
displayed four weeks prior to an election, but must be removed within 48 hours
following the election.
      (2)   With permission of the property owner, or the adjacent property
owner, political candidate or election issue signs may be placed on private
property or in the boulevard area of the street right-of-way adjacent to
private property, two weeks before any election, providing the signs do not
exceed 312 square inches in area and are removed the day following the
election.
      (3)   With the permission of the adjacent property owner(s), political or
election issue signs not exceeding 32 square feet in size and placed in a
vehicle or on a trailer, may park on public streets and in public parking lots,
but not in residential zoning, two weeks before any election provided all
parking regulations are met and the signs are removed the day following the
election.
   (B)   If the provisions of different chapters, sections or divisions of this
chapter conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions of each chapter,
section and division shall prevail as to all matters and questions growing out
of the subject matter of such chapter, section or division.
(Ord. 216, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Public places; obstructions and encroachments, see SDCL § 9-30-2
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Title and application
   
154.02   Chapter provisions
   
154.03   Official zoning map
   
154.04   Definitions
District Regulations
   
154.15   Application of district regulations
   
154.16   Nonconforming uses
   
154.17   District regulations
   
154.18   “A” Agricultural District
   
154.19   “R” Residential District
   
154.20   “C” Commercial District
   
154.21   “I” Industrial District
Administration
   
154.35   General
   
154.36   Administrative Official
   
154.37   Board of Adjustment
   
154.38   Procedures for applications
Supplemental Regulations
   
154.50   Visibility at intersections
   
154.51   Fences
   
154.52   Accessory uses
   
154.53   Signs and outdoor advertising
   
154.54   Parking
   
154.55   Structures to have access
   
154.56   Adult uses
   
154.57   Yards
   
154.58   Erection of more than one principal structure on a lot
   
154.59   Exceptions to height regulations
   
154.60   Private wastewater treatment systems (septic tanks)
   
154.61   Manufactured home provisions
   
154.62   Permanent foundations required for dwellings
   
154.63   Utility easements
   
154.64   Moved in buildings
   
154.65   Moved out buildings
   
154.66   Refuse
   
154.67   Caretaker/watchman’s quarters
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01  TITLE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known and referred to as “the Zoning
Ordinance of the City of Oldham, South Dakota.”
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
territory within the boundaries of the city, as established on the official
zoning map of the city.
   (C)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   This chapter is enacted for the purpose set forth and provided for
in SDCL Chapters 11-4 and 11-6, that is, among other things to promote the
health, safety, peace, comfort, convenience, prosperity, morals and general
welfare of the community.
      (2)   This chapter has been prepared in accordance with the Comprehensive
Land Use Plan for the city and is designed to coordinate physical development
of the community with needs for public services and facilities.
      (3)   More specifically, this chapter is adopted in order to achieve the
following objectives:
         (a)   To foster a harmonious, convenient, workable relationship among
land uses;
         (b)   To promote the stability of existing land uses that conform with
the Comprehensive Land Use Plan and to protect them from inharmonious
influences and harmful intrusions;
         (c)   To insure that public and private lands ultimately are used for
the purposes which are most appropriate and most beneficial from the standpoint
of the community as a whole;
         (d)   To prevent excessive population densities and overcrowding of
the land with structures;
         (e)   To foster the provision of adequate off-street parking and off-
street truck loading facilities;
         (f)   To facilitate the appropriate location of community facilities
and institutions;
         (g)   To protect and enhance real estate values;
         (h)   To safeguard and enhance the appearance of the community,
including natural amenities; and
         (i)   To place the power and responsibility of the use of land in the
hands of the property owner contingent upon the compatibility of surrounding
uses and the Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.02  CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Provisions of chapter declared to be minimum requirements. Wherever
the requirements of this chapter are at variance with the requirements of any
other lawfully adopted rules, ordinances, deed restrictions or covenants, the
most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
   (B)   Effective date. These regulations shall take effect and be in full
force from and after their passage and publication according to law.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.03  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Official zoning map.
      (1)   The city is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on
the official zoning map, which, together with all explanatory matter thereon,
is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
      (2)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
Council President of the city, attested by the City Finance Officer under the
following words: “This is to certify that this is the official zoning map
referred to in §
154.03 of the code of ordinances of the City of Oldham, State of South Dakota,”
together with the date of the adoption of this chapter. The official zoning map
shall be on file at the office of the City Council.
      (3)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and SDCL
Chapter 11-4, as amended, changes are made in district boundaries or other
matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall not become
effective until after said changes have been made on the official zoning map by
the City Finance Officer or in his or her absence a person designated by the
City Council. Any unauthorized change by any person or persons shall be
considered a violation of this chapter and punishable as provided under §
154.99.
      (4)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official
zoning map which may from time to time be made or published, the official
zoning map, which shall be located in the city offices, shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings
and other structures in the city.
   (B)   Changes and/or replacement of official zoning map.
      (1)   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of
changes and additions, the City Council may by ordinance adopt a new official
zoning map, which shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new
official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the City Council
President attested by the City Finance Officer, and bearing the seal of the
city under the following words: “This is to certify that this official zoning
map supersedes and replaces the official zoning map adopted (date of adoption
of map being replaced) as part of the zoning ordinance of the City of Oldham,
State of South Dakota.”
      (2)   Unless the prior official zoning map has been lost, or has been
totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining
shall be preserved together with all available records pertaining to its
adoption or amendment.
      (3)   Changes to the official zoning map shall require, amendment of this
regulation by ordinance, as provided for in §
154.38(F).
   (C)   Rules where map designation uncertain. Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the various zoning districts as shown on the official zoning map,
the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   The district boundaries are the centerlines of streets, alleys and
highways; rights-of-way, railroad rights-of-way, waterways, lot lines, property
lines, quarter section lines, half section lines or full section lines, unless
otherwise shown.
      (2)   Where the designation on the official zoning map indicates the
various districts are approximately bounded by lot lines, the lot lines shall
be the boundaries of such districts unless boundaries are otherwise indicated
on the map.
      (3)   In unsubdivided property, the zoning district boundary line on the
official zoning map may be determined by use of the scale contained on the map.
   (D)   Annexation. Subsequent of the effective date of these regulations, any
land annexed into the municipal boundaries of the city shall be automatically
placed into the “A” Agricultural Zoning District, unless and until such time as
the area is rezoned by amendment of these regulations by ordinance, as provided
for in Chapter 3.05, Section 3.05.05 of these regulations.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number
shall include the plural; and the plural the singular; the word “building”
shall include the word “structure,” and the word “shall” is mandatory and not
discretionary: the word “may” is permissive; the word “person” includes a firm,
association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well
as, an individual; the word “lot” includes the words plat or parcel and the
words “used” or “occupied” include the words intended, designed, or arranged to
be used or occupied. Any word not herein defined shall be as defined in any
recognized Standard English Dictionary.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE.  As applied to use or structure, means
customarily incidental or subordinate to, and on the premises of such use or
structure.
   ADULT BOOKSTORES. An establishment having, as a substantial portion of its
stock in trade, books, magazines, films or videotapes for sale or viewing on
the premises by use of motion picture devices or other coin-operated means, and
other periodicals which are distinguished by their emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas as such terms are defined in this section, or an establishment
with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of such material.
ADULT BOOKSTORES may alternatively or in conjunction with the above stock in
trade sell undergarments and other clothing designed for the display of
specified anatomical areas or for the enhancement of specified sexual
activities. Further, an ADULT BOOKSTORE may alternatively or in conjunction
with the above stock in trade sell prosthetic devices, dolls, candles,
vibrators and other objects for sexual gratification which take the form of
specified anatomical areas and for the purpose of enhancing specified sexual
activities.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. An establishment offering to its patrons, as
entertainment, any exhibition or display or any theatrical or other five
performances which include topless or go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers,
male or female impersonators, or similar entertainers, or any persons singing,
reading, posing, modeling or serving food or beverages, where the exhibition,
performance, display or dance is intended to sexually arouse the entertainer or
the patrons, or where the attire of persons involved is such as to expose
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building, regardless of its
seating capacity which is used to present for public view on the premises,
films, movies, previews, trailers or advertisements which are distinguished by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT PHOTO STUDIO. An establishment which, on payment of a fee, provides
photographic equipment and/or models for the purpose of photographing
“specified anatomical areas” as herein defined.
   ADULT USE.  Includes adult entertainment facility, adult bookstores, adult
motion picture theaters and adult photo studios as defined in this section.
   AIRPORT.  A place where aircraft can land and take off, usually equipped
with hangers, facilities for refueling and repair, and various accommodations
for passengers, including heliports.
   ALLEY.  A minor way, dedicated to public use, which is used primarily for
vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street.
   AGRICULTURE.  The cultivation of the soil and all activities incident
thereto, except that the term shall not include the raising and feeding of
hogs, sheep, goats, cattle, poultry or fur-bearing animals.
   ANIMAL UNIT. One animal unit is equivalent to 1.0 beef cow, steer, feeder or
fat beef animal, 0.5 horse, 0.7 dairy cow, 1.7 swine, 6.7 sheep/goats, 55
turkeys, 5 ducks/geese, 33 hens, cockerels, capons, broilers.
   APARTMENT HOUSE.  A detached dwelling designed for, or occupied by, four or
more family units.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.  Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil,
grease, batteries, tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and
dispensed at retail. This definition does not include storage, body repair or
auto salvage operations.
   BAR/LOUNGE. An establishment that is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by
the drink.
   BASEMENT. Any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a
floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a
BASEMENT, unless such floor level qualifies as a first story as defined herein.
   BED AND BREAKFAST (B&B). A private single-family residence, which is used to
provide limited meals and temporary accommodations for a charge to the public.
Such establishments should be located where there will be minimum impact on
surrounding residential properties and should comply with the following
provisions.
      (1)   B&Bs shall be limited to residential structures with an overall
minimum of 1,800 square feet of floor. Preference will be given to structures
with historic or other unique qualities.
      (2)   They shall be in compliance with applicable state laws including
registration with the State Department of Health, maintaining a guest list, and
providing a smoke detector in each sleeping room.
      (3)   Accessory use signs shall be based on similar requirements for a
home occupation permit and shall not be more than one square foot in area.
      (4)   Such uses shall be an incidental use with an owner occupied
principle dwelling structure provided that not more than four bedrooms in such
dwelling structure shall be used for such purpose.
      (5)   Off-street parking requirements shall be one space per guestroom
and shall be in addition to parking requirements for the principle use. Off-
street parking shall not be located in a required front or side yard and
screening shall be required when adjacent to residentially used property.
      (6)   The length of stay shall not exceed 14 days during any 120-day
consecutive period.
      (7)   Meals shall be limited to breakfast, which is prepared in a common
facility (household kitchen). Meals may be served only to overnight registered
guests and cooking is not permitted in the sleeping rooms.
      (8)   The building shall meet all building codes and zoning requirements.
A site plan showing the location of guest parking spaces and floor plan showing
a location of the sleeping rooms, lavatories and bathing facilities, and
kitchen shall be submitted with application.
   BLOCK.  An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river, lake or rail line.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a motel, hotel or restaurant, where
lodging and meals are provided for three or more persons, but not exceeding ten
persons, and not open to public or transients.
   BUFFER.  The use of land, topography, space, fences or landscape planting to
partially screen a use or activity from, another property and thus reduce
undesirable views or influences.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of the lot that can be occupied by the principal
use, thus excluding the front, rear and side yards.
   BUILDING.  Includes the word STRUCTURE and is a structure which is entirely
separated from any other structure by space or by walls in which there are no
communicating doors or windows or similar openings.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the established average sidewalk
grade or street grade, or finished grade at the building line, whichever is the
highest, to the highest point of the building.
   BUILDING LINE. A line on the lot running parallel to the required horizontal
distance from the nearest property line.
   CAMPGROUND. A plot of ground for public use upon which two or more campsites
are located, established; maintained, advertised or held out to the public, to
be a place where camping units can be located and occupied as temporary living
quarters. CAMPGROUNDS for tent trailers and recreational vehicles shall be
sited with consideration for access to the property. The CAMPGROUND shall be
designed to minimize the impact from adjacent major thoroughfares.
   CAR WASH. A facility used to clean the exterior, and sometimes the interior,
of automobiles.
   CARETAKER’S RESIDENCE/WATCHMAN’S QUARTERS. A dwelling unit which is occupied
by one who is employed by a business located on the same premises or within the
same structure as said dwelling unit.
   CHURCH. A building wherein persons regularly assemble for religious worship
and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
public worship, together with all accessory buildings and uses customarily
associated with such primary purpose.
   CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE. A triangular-shaped portion of land established at
street intersections and ingress/egress points in which there are restrictions
on things erected, placed or planted which would limit or obstruct the sight
distance of motorists entering or leaving the intersection (see illustration
below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2e76a475821ed5037d2bb8a49e190a906abc4702/
IMAGES/0-0-0-779.jpg]
 
   COMMERCIAL STORAGE, MINI-STORAGE FACILITIES. Individual locker storage
facilities (frequently with some accessory outdoor vehicle/boat storage)
primarily for the benefit of residential or small business users in which are
kept household items, business records, vehicles, recreational equipment and
the like.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The adopted long-range plan intended to guide the growth
and development of the city.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning district by which if controlled as to number,
area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the public
health, safety, morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, prosperity or
general welfare. Such uses may be permitted by the Board of Adjustment when
specific provision is made in this chapter. CONDITIONAL USES are subject to
evaluation and approval by the Board of Adjustment and are administrative in
nature.
   CONDOMINIUM. The ownership of single units in a multi-unit residential
structure with common elements (with the property subject to the condominium
regime established pursuant to SDCL § 43-15A).
   CONSTRUCTION. Any clearing of land, excavation or other action that would
adversely affect the natural environment of the site or route but does not
include changes needed for temporary use of sites or routes for non-utility
purposes, or uses in securing survey or geological data, including necessary
borings to ascertain foundation conditions.
   CONTRACTOR SHOPS AND STORAGE YARDS. Those facilities to include structures
and land areas where the outdoor storage of equipment and supplies used for
various types of off-site construction are stored. Examples of equipment and
supplies include, but are not limited to, the following road construction,
building construction, gravel operations and general contracting services.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment offering for sale pre-packaged
food products, household items, and other goods commonly associated with the
same, at which a customer typically purchases only a few items during a short
visit.
   COURT.  An open unoccupied space bounded on two or more sides by the
exterior walls of a building or buildings on the same lot.
   DAY CARE CENTER.  Any operation, which provides childcare services. To be
considered a DAY CARE CENTER under these regulations, the State of South Dakota
must license such operation.
   DENSITY. The number of families, individuals, dwelling units or housing
structures per unit of land.
   DEVELOPMENT. The carrying out of any surface or structure construction,
reconstruction or alteration of land use or intensity of use.
   DWELLING.  Any building or part thereof which is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes by one or more human beings either
permanently or transiently.
   DWELLING, FARM.  Any dwelling located on a farming operation, which is used
or intended for use as a residence by the farm’s owner, relative of the owner,
or a person employed on the premises.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.  A residential building designed for or occupied
by three or more families, with the number of families in residence not
exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling building, other
than a manufactured home but to include modular homes, designed for and
occupied by one family only.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A residential building containing two household
units, designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
   DWELLING UNIT.  One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwelling units which may in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN. A sign whose message may be changed at intervals by
electronic process or remote control and whose only movement is the periodic
changing of information having a constant light level.
   ENGINEER. Any engineer licensed by the State of South Dakota.
   EVERGREEN OR CONIFEROUS TREE.  Any cone-bearing shrub or tree and any plant
that retains its foliage throughout the year which is a minimum height of four
feet measured above immediate ground level.
   EXTENDED HOME OCCUPATION. A home occupation conducted outside of the
residence and/or in an accessory building. See Chapter 4.19.
   FAMILY.  One or more individuals living, sleeping, cooking or eating on the
premises as a single housekeeping unit; but it shall not include a group or
more than five individuals not related by blood or marriage.
   FARM. A bona fide business for the production of agricultural products and
the incidental use of horses, dogs or other animals and other similar
operations; but specifically excluding greenhouses, horticultural nurseries and
kennels and other similar commercial operations.
   FEEDLOT. A lot, yard, corral, building or other area where animals have
been, are, or will be stabled or confined for a total of 45 days or more during
any 12-month period, and where crops, vegetation, forage growth or post harvest
residues are not sustained over any portion of the lot or facility.
   FENCE. A structure used as a boundary, screen, separation, means of privacy,
protection or confinement, and is constructed of wood, plastic, metal, wire
mesh, masonry or other similar material and is used as a barrier of some sort.
   FILLING STATION. Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil, grease,
batteries, tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and dispensed at
retail, but where the following activities are not carried out as a normal part
of doing business:
      (1)   Major mechanical work, involving removal of the head or crankcase;
      (2)   Auto body work, including straightening of auto body parts;
      (3)   Painting or welding of any automobile parts;
      (4)   Storage of automobiles not in operating condition; and
      (5)   Any other automobile work which involves noise, glare, fumes, smoke
or other characteristics not normally found at places which sell gasoline at
retail.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS. Any liquid which gives off flammable vapors, as
determined by the flash point from an open-cup tester as used for test of
burning oils, at or below a temperature of 80°F, is flammable.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any illuminated sign that has artificial light or color which
is not maintained at a constant intensity or color when such sign is in use. A
sign providing public service information, such as time, weather, date,
temperature or similar information, shall not be considered a FLASHING SIGN.
   GAME LODGE. A building or group of two or more detached, or semi-detached or
attached buildings occupied or used as a temporary abiding place of sportsmen,
hunters and fishermen, who are lodged with or without meals, and in which there
are sleeping quarters.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building used for the storage of not more than
four vehicles owned and used by the occupant of the building to which it is
necessary. Vehicles include cars, pickups and boats, but not commercial
vehicles.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, other than a private or
storage garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring,
selling, storing or parking motor-driven vehicles. The term “repairing” shall
not include an automobile body repair shop nor the rebuilding, dismantling or
storage of wrecked or junked vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any building or premises, used for housing only motor-
driven vehicles, other than trucks and commercial vehicles.
   GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY. An organized entity which, in addition to having
governmental character, has sufficient discretion in the management of its own
affairs to distinguish it as separate from the administrative structure of any
other governmental unit. This definition shall be deemed to include, but is not
limited to the city, Kingsbury County, the State of South Dakota, and any
public school district serving the city.
   GRADE. The finished grade of premises improved by a building or structure is
the average natural elevation or slope of the surface of the ground within 50
feet of the building or structure.
   GREENHOUSE. A building whose roof and sides are made largely of glass
regulated for the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season plants for
subsequent sale or for personal enjoyment.
   GROUP HOME. A supervised living or counseling arrangement fn a family home
context providing for the 24-hour care of children or adults.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING.  The vertical distance from the established average
sidewalk grade of street grade, or finished grade at the building line,
whichever is the highest, to the highest point of the building.
   HIGH VOLTAGE TRANSMISSION LINE. A conductor of electric energy and
associated facilities.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  An occupation conducted in a dwelling unit, provided that
the occupation is clearly secondary to the main use of the premises as a
dwelling and does not change the character thereof or have any exterior
evidence of such secondary use and:
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in such occupation;
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinated to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall
be used in the conduct of the home occupation;
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding two square-foot in area, non-illuminated and
mounted flat against the wall of the principle building;
      (4)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation,
which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot in the case of electrical
interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or
audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or
causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises;
      (5)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street; and
      (6)   Not withstanding the preceding standards, any operation that
provides care for more than 12 children in a 24-hour period shall not be
considered a HOME OCCUPATION.
   HOUSEHOLD UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   HOTEL or MOTEL.  A building designed for occupancy as the more or less
temporary abiding place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in
which there are four or more guest rooms, and which is open to the public and
transients.
   JUNK YARD.  The use of more than 50 square feet of any land, building or
structure, whether for private or commercial purposes, or both, where waste
discarded or salvaged materials such as scrap metals, used building materials,
used lumber, used glass, discarded vehicles, paper, rags, rubber, cordage,
barrels, machinery and the like, or parts thereof with or without the
dismantling, processing, salvage, sale or other use or disposition of the same.
   KENNEL.  Any place where more than one dog or cat over four months of age
are owned, boarded, raised, bred or offered for sale.
   LARGE WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM or LWECS. All WES facilities excluding
small wind energy conversion systems.
   LIGHT MANUFACTURING. Those manufacturing processes which are not obnoxious
due to dust, odor, noise, vibration, pollution, smoke, heat or glare. These
commercial and industrial uses are characterized by generally having all
aspects of the process carried on within the building itself.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET.  Space logically and conveniently located for
bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used,
and accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are
filled. Required OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE is not to be included as off-street
parking space in computation of required off-street parking space.
   LOT. A parcel or tract of land having specific boundaries and which has been
recorded in the Register of Deeds office. A LOT shall include only one
principal building together with its accessory buildings; open spaces and
parking spaces required by these regulations and shall have its principal
frontage upon a road or other approved access.
   LOT FRONTAGE. 
      (1)   The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion nearest the
street.
      (2)   For the purposes of determining yard requirements on corner lots
and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be considered
FRONTAGE.
      (3)   Minimum frontage for lots located on cul-de-sacs shall be
determined as the average of the widest and narrowest width of the lot.
   LOT MEASUREMENTS.
      (1)   Depth: the average mean horizontal distance between the front and
rear lot lines;
      (2)   Width: the width of a lot at the front yard line; and
      (3)   Area: the lot area is the area of a horizontal plane in square feet
or acres within the lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the Kingsbury County Register of Deeds, prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   LOT TYPES.  See figure below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2e76a475821ed5037d2bb8a49e190a906abc4702/
IMAGES/0-0-0-781.jpg]
 
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
CORNER LOT if straight fines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than
135 degrees (Lot A).
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street (Lot B).
      (3)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT.  A lot on which the frontage is at right
angles or approximately right angles (interior angle less than 135 degrees) to
the general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be a corner
lot (Lots A and D in the diagram), an interior lot (Lot B and D in the diagram)
or through lot (Lots C and D in the diagram).
      (4)   THROUGH LOT.  A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more
than one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots (Lot C).
   MANUFACTURED HOME. See §
154.61.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. See §
154.20.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING.
      (1)   ANCHORING SYSTEM.  An approved system of straps, cables,
turnbuckles, chains, ties or other approved materials used to secure a
manufactured or mobile home.
      (2)   ANSI/NFPA 501A STANDARDS FOR INSTALLATION OF (MANUFACTURED) MOBILE
HOMES.  Model national standards (including all authorized successor documents)
for installation of manufactured and mobile homes, as adopted and copyrighted
by the National Fire Protection Association and Manufactured Housing institute.
      (3)   EXPANDO UNIT. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
      (4)   FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING.  A type of wainscoting constructed of
fire and weather resistant material, such as aluminum, asbestos board, treated
pressed wood or other approved materials, enclosing the entire undercarriage of
the manufactured.
      (5)   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structural system for transporting loads
from a structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line
without exceeding the same bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
      (6)   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE.  A permanent structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground.
      (7)   SECTION. A unit of a manufactured, home at least ten body feet in
width and 30 feet in length.
      (8)   SUPPORT SYSTEM. A pad or combination of footings, piers, caps,
plates and shims, which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or
mobile home.
   MINING.  The excavation of earth materials for the purpose of sale.
   MODULAR HOME. See §
154.61.
   MOVED-IN BUILDING.  A building that previously existed on a lot of different
location relocated for use as a residence, out-building, commercial, industrial
or any building used in relation to these uses shall be recognized as a MOVED-
IN BUILDING.
   MOTEL/HOTEL.  A building or group of buildings used primarily for the
temporary residence of motorists or travelers.
   NONCONFORMING USE.  Any building or structure, or land lawfully occupied by
a use at the time of passage of this chapter or amendment which does not
conform after the passage of this chapter or amendment with the use regulation
of the district in which it is situated.
   NON-STANDARD USE. The category of nonconformance consisting of lots occupied
by buildings or structures or uses which existed immediately prior to the
effective date of this chapter which fail to comply with any of the following:
minimum lot requirements for the area, density, width, front yard, side yard,
rear yard, height, unobstructed open space or parking for the district in which
they are located, even though the use of the premises conforms to the permitted
uses within the district as set out in the provisions of this chapter.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING BUSINESS. Provisions of outdoor displays or display
space on a lease or rental basis only.
   PARCEL.  A single tract of land, located within a single block, which at the
time of filing for a building permit, is designated by the owner or developer
as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under single or
unified ownership or control, and assigned to the particular use, building or
structure, for which the building permit are issued and including such area of
land as may be required by the provisions of this chapter for such use,
building or structure.
   PARKING SPACE.  A space for parking of automobiles which has a minimum width
of nine feet and a minimum length of 19 feet.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET.  An off-street parking space shall consist of a
space adequate for parking an automobile with room for opening doors on both
sides, together with related access to a public street or alley, and
maneuvering room. For purposes of rough computation, an OFF-STREET PARKING
SPACE may be estimated at 300 square feet.
   PERMIT.  A permit required by these regulations unless stated otherwise.
   PERMITTED USE.  Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
   PERSON. In addition to an individual, includes the following terms: “firm,”
“association,” “organization,” “partnership,” “trust,” “company” or
“corporation” joint venture, public service company, cooperative, political
subdivision, municipal corporation, government agency, public utility district
or any other entity, public or private, however organized.
   PERSONAL SERVICES.  These establishments offer a wide range of personal
services (laundry, hair care and the like).
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The members of the City Council serving in an advisory
capacity on planning and zoning matters.
   PLAT.  The map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plan of
subdivision is legally recorded.
   PRINCIPAL USE.  The primary use to which the premises are devoted.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A motor home, travel trailer, truck camper or camping
trailer, with or without motor power, designed for human habitation for
recreational or emergency occupancy. A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE does not include
manufactured homes.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any building used for non-profit purposes by an
established religious organization holding either tax exempt status under § 501
(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code or under the state property tax law, where
such building is primarily intended to be used as a place of worship. The term
includes, but is not necessarily limited to: church; temple; synagogue; and
mosque.
   ROUTE. The location of a high voltage transmission line between two end
points. The ROUTE may have a variable width of up to 1.25 miles.
   SALE OR AUCTION YARD OR BARN. A place or building where the normal activity
is to sell or exchange livestock. Livestock normally in yard or farm for one
day during sale or auction.
   SANITARY LANDFILLS.  Method of waste disposal involving the dumping and
daily covering of waste material all in compliance with state regulations.
   SCALE OR AUCTION YARD/BARN.  A place or building where the normal activity
is to sell or exchange livestock. Livestock normally in yard or farm for one
day during sale or auction.
   SERVICE STATION, AUTOMOBILE.  Any building or premises which provides for
the retail sale of gasoline, oil, tires, batteries, and accessories for motor
vehicles and for certain motor vehicle services, including washings, tire
changing, repair service, battery service, radiator service, lubrication, brake
service, wheel service, and testing or adjusting of automotive parts.
Automobile repair work may be done at a SERVICE STATION, provided that no
rebuilding of engines, spray paint operations or body or fender repair is
permitted. Gasoline pumps and gasoline pump islands shall be located more than
12 feet from the nearest property line.
   SETBACK. The setback of a building is the minimum horizontal distance
between the front line or street fine and the nearest edge of any building or
any projection thereof, except cornices and unenclosed porches, and entrances
vestibules and window bays projecting not more than three and one-half feet
from the building and not more than 50 square feet in area, and which do not
extend above the first story of the building.
   SCREENING.  Earthforms, walls, fences, plant material or other structures or
devices intended to partially obscure, conceal or protect from off-site view.
   SHEET SIDING. Any siding material customarily installed as a sheet and
composed of galvanized, painted or bonded metal, and customarily installed in a
vertical manner but also capable of being installed horizontally.
   SHOPPING CENTER. Retail buildings of greater than 100,000 square feet and
designed for more than one tenant.
   SIGN.
      (1)   Any object, device or structure, or part thereof, situated outdoors
or visible from outdoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct
or attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business,
product, service, event or location, by any means, including words, letters,
figures, design, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination or projected images.
      (2)   This definition does not include:
         (a)   National or state flags or their emblem or insignia, interior
window displays, athletic scoreboards, or the official announcements or signs
of government;
         (b)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other
identification of premises not having commercial connotations;
         (c)   Legal notices, identification, information or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies;
         (d)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings,
except letters, trademarks, moving parts or moving fights; and
         (e)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private
property, but bearing no advertising matter.
   SIGN (OFF-PREMISES). A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a location
other than the premises on which the sign is located.
   SIGN (ON-PREMISES). A sign which directs attention to a business or
profession conducted, or to a commodity or service sold, offered or
manufactured, or to an entertainment offered on the premises where the sign is
located.
   SLEEPING QUARTERS. A room or an area contained within a dwelling unit
utilized for the purpose of sleep.
   SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM or SWECS. A WES facility with a single
tower height of less than 90 feet used primarily for on-site consumption of
power. See graphic below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2e76a475821ed5037d2bb8a49e190a906abc4702/
IMAGES/0-0-0-783.jpg]
 
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human or animal genitals,
pubic region or pubic hair, buttocks; and female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and
      (2)   Genitals of humans or animals in a discernible turgid state, even
if completely opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human or animal genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or
arousal;
      (2)   Acts or representations of acts of human or animal masturbation,
sexual intercourse or sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation or flagellation;
      (3)   Fondling or erection touching of human or animal genitals, pubic
region, buttock or female breast; and
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities
set forth in an adult bookstore or “adult entertainment facility.”
   STABLE. A building for the shelter and feeding of domestic animals,
especially horses and cattle.
   STABLE, COMMERCIAL. A building for the shelter and feeding of domestic
animals, especially horses and cattle where such domestic animals are raised,
trained, boarded, harbored or kept for remuneration. Veterinary clinics, animal
hospitals and animal shelters are specifically excluded.
   STAND, ROADSIDE.  A structure for the display and sale of products with no
space for customers within the structure itself.
   STORY.  The portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
STORY shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above, if the finished floor level
directly above a basement or unused under-floor space is more than six feet
above grade for more than 50% of the total perimeter or is more than 12 feet
above grade at any point, such basement or unused under-floor space shall be
considered as a STORY.
   STORY, FIRST.  The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a story,
except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be
classified as a first story, provided such floor level is not more than four
feet below grade for more than 50% of the total perimeter, or more than eight
feet below grade at any point.
   STREET LINE.  A right-of-way line of a street.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property. Also may be referred to as ROAD or HIGHWAY. The term STREET
shall include and apply to any public way except alleys.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREET.  A street designated as such upon the Major Street
Plan of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the city.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET.  A street designated as such upon the Major
Street Plan of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the city.
      (3)   LOCAL STREET. Any street which is not an arterial street or
collector street.
   STRIP MALLS. Retail buildings of less than 100,000 square feet and designed
for more than one tenant.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, manufactured homes, walls, fences,
swimming pools, signs, ponds and lagoons.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. Anything constructed or erected, or placed, the use of
which requires temporary location on the ground or attached to something having
a temporary location on the ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building developments
(whether immediate or future). This term includes resubdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, is related to the process of subdividing or to the
land subdivided.
   SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED. This term refers to the amount of work required to
be completed in association with a building permit issued by the city. In order
to be SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETE, 75% of the project for which a building permit
has been issued is required to be finished.
   SYSTEM HEIGHT.  The height above grade of the tallest point of the WES,
including the rotor radius.
   TOWER HEIGHT.  The height above grade of the fixed portion of the tower,
excluding the wind turbine itself.
   TRAILER.  Any of the following:
      (1)   CAMPER TRAILER.  A canvas, folding structure, mounted on wheels,
and designed for travel, recreation and vacation use.
      (2)   MOTOR HOME.  A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
      (3)   PICK-UP COACH.  A structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
      (4)   TRAVEL TRAILER.  A vehicular, portable structure built on a
chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational
and vacation uses. The trailer shall be permanently identified TRAVEL TRAILER
by the manufacturer of the trailer and, when factory equipped for the road, it
shall have a body width not exceeding eight feet, and a body length not
exceeding 30 feet.
   TURBINE.  The parts of the WES including the blades, generator and tail.
   TWIN HOMES.  A two-family dwelling which has a common wall and is platted
into two separate lots.
   USE.  The purpose for which land or premises or a building thereof is
designated, arranged or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   UTILITY.  Any entity engaged in this state in the generation, transmission
or distribution of electric energy including, but not limited to, a private
investor owned utility, cooperatively owned utility, and a public or municipal
utility.
   VARIANCE.  A relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such variance
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship. As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for height,
area and size of structure or size of yards and open spaces; establishment or
expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by variance, nor
shall a variance be granted because of the presence of nonconforming in the
zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning district.
   VERTICAL AXIS WIND TURBINE. Have the main rotor shaft arranged vertically
and shall be used only for the purpose of generating power for the property on
which the vertical axis wind turbine is located, or for the purpose of
transmitting power to the electrical grid of an electric utility company
through an approved interconnection. VERTICAL AXIS WIND TURBINES are either
mounted on a tower, close to the ground, or directly on building roofs. See
following graphics.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2e76a475821ed5037d2bb8a49e190a906abc4702/
IMAGES/0-0-0-785.jpg]
 
   VETERINARY CLINIC.  A commercial activity catering to the medical needs of
animals and having no outside runs.
   WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, manure, sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility and other
discarded materials, including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural
operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or
dissolved materials in domestic sewage or dissolved materials in irrigation
return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources subject to
permits under § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended to
January 1, 1986, or source, special nuclear or by-product materials as defined
by the Atomic Energy act of 1954, as amended.
   WATCHMAN’S QUARTERS.  See CARETAKER’S RESIDENCE/WATCHMAN’S QUARTERS.
   WHOLESALE MERCHANDISING/TRADE.  Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in selling merchandise to retailers to industrial,
commercial, institutional or professional business users, or to other
wholesalers; or acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise for, or
selling merchandise to, such individuals or companies.
   WETLANDS.  Any area where ground water is at or near the surface at least
six months of the year; the boundary of which shall be defined as that area
where the emergent aquatic vegetation ceases and the surrounding upland
vegetation begins.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM or WECS.  An aggregation of parts including
the base, tower, generator, rotor, blades, supports, guy wires and accessory
equipment such as utility interconnections, battery banks and the like in such
a configuration as necessary to convert the power of wind into mechanical or
electrical energy. WECS are also known as WIND CHARGERS, WINDMILLS or WIND
TURBINES.
   YARD.  An open space on the same lot with a building or group of buildings,
which open space lies between the building or group of buildings and the
nearest lot fine.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending between the side lot lines across the front of
a lot adjoining a public right-of-way.
      (1)   In the case of corner lots which do not have reversed frontage, a
FRONT YARD of the required depth shall be provided in accordance with the
prevailing yard pattern, and a second front yard of half the depth required
generally for front yards in the districts shall be provided on the other
frontage.
      (2)   In the case of reversed frontage corner lots, a FRONT YARD of the
required depth shall be provided on either frontage, and a second front yard of
half the depth required generally for front yards in the district shall be
provided on the other frontage.
      (3)   In the case of corner lots with more than two frontages, the
Administrative Official shall determine the front yard requirements, subject to
the following limitations:
         (a)   At least one front yard shall be provided having the full depth
required generally in the district; and
         (b)   No other front yard on such lot shall have less than half the
full depth required generally.
      (4)   Depth of required FRONT YARDS shall be measured at right angles to
a straight line adjoining the foremost points of the side lot lines. The
foremost point of the side lot line, in the case of rounded property corners at
street intersections, shall be assumed to be the point at which the side and
front lot lines would have met without such rounding. Front and rear front yard
lines shall be parallel.
   YARD LINE.  See LOT LINE.
   YARD, REAR.  A yard across the whole width of the lot, extending from the
rear line of the building to the rear line of the lot. In the case of through
lots and corner lots, where will be no REAR YARDS, but only front and side
yards.
   YARD, REQUIRED.  The portion of a side, front or rear yard nearest the
designated lot line and having the width or depth required in the district in
which located.
   YARD, SIDE.  A yard between the building and the adjacent sideline of the
lot, which separates it from another lot, extending from the front lot line to
the rear yard. In the case of through lots and corner lots, SIDE YARDS
remaining after the full and half-depth front yards have been established shall
be considered side yards.
   ZERO LOT LINE.  The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that
the side of a building rests on a lot line.
   ZONING DISTRICT.  A section of the city for which the regulations governing
the use of land, the construction and use of buildings and the occupancy of
premises are hereby made.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.15  APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability of regulations. The regulations set forth by this
chapter within each district shall be minimum regulations and shall apply
uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, except as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   Compliance: generally. No building, or any part thereof shall
hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or any part thereof shall be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, converted, altered, enlarged, extended,
raised, moved or used, and no premises shall be used for any purpose other than
a purpose permitted in the zoning district in which said building or premises
is located, except as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Structures and lots; construction or alteration; limitations of.
      (1)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or
altered:
         (a)   To exceed the height or bulk;
         (b)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
         (c)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; and
         (d)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards
or other open spaces than herein required; or in any other manner contrary to
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or are below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.16  NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   Within the zoning districts established by this chapter or
amendments that may later be adopted there exist lots, structures, uses of land
and structures, and characteristics of use which were lawful before this
chapter was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or
restricted under the terms of this chapter or future amendment. It is the
intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to continue until they
are removed, but not to encourage their survival.
      (2)   Nonconforming uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the zoning districts involved. A nonconforming use of a
structure, a nonconforming use of land or a nonconforming use of structure and
land in combination shall not or enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be
used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the
same district.
      (3)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (4)   CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner. Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing building has
been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation or
demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided that
work shall be carried on diligently.
   (B)   Repairs and maintenance.
      (1)   On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing
a nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on
ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures,
wiring or plumbing to an extent not exceeding 10% of the current replacement
cost of the nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of the structure
as the case may be, provided that the cubic content existing when it became
nonconforming shall not be increased.
      (2)   If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs
and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized official to be unsafe
or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be
restored, repaired or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   (C)   Uses and structures. A lawful use or structure existing at the time
this chapter is adopted or amended may continue even though such use does not
conform to the district regulations subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Whenever, a nonconforming use or structure has been changed to a
conforming use, it shall not be changed back to a nonconforming use.
      (2)   If any nonconforming building is destroyed or damaged by any
casualty, such building may be repaired or replaced and use continued providing
said reconstruction shall not add to the nonconformity or add to the cubic
contents of said building as the same existed at the time of such casualty; and
provided further that such repair or reconstruction of such building shall
begin within six months after such casualty and completed within a reasonable
time thereafter. However, if the damage caused by such casualty is such as to
cause a loss in value exceeding 50% of the replacement value immediately prior
to such casualty, then it cannot be rebuilt for a nonconforming use. The loss
in value shall be computed as the difference between the actual cash value of
the structure immediately before and after the casualty. Cash value shall be
the same as that used for insurance purposes as approved by the State Insurance
Code.
      (3)   When a nonconforming use or structure is discontinued for a period
of one year, it shall not be continued unless in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter and SDCL § 11-6-39.
      (4)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any part of a
structure, which was arranged or designed for such use previous to the adoption
of this chapter, but shall not be extended outside each structure.
      (5)   No existing nonconforming use or structure shall be enlarged, moved
or structurally altered except to change to a permitted use. This is not to
include normal repairs and maintenance, which do not enlarge, move or
structurally alter a nonconforming use.
      (6)   Type I and Type II manufactured homes located upon any lot or lots
of record at the time of the adoption of this chapter may be replaced by Type I
and/or Type II manufactured homes of like dimensions and said replacement shall
not be deemed to have changed the use thereof from a nonconforming to a
conforming use. If a replacement Type I and/or Type II manufactured home is of
larger dimension than the existing Type I and/or Type II manufactured home,
then application must first be made to the City Board of Adjustment for
conditional use permit.
      (7)   Nonstandard uses existing immediately prior to the effective date
of this chapter may be continued, although such uses do not conform to the
provisions hereof. Nonstandard buildings or structures may be enlarged or
extended, converted, reconstructed or structurally altered as follows.
         (a)   Enlargements, extensions, conversions or structural alterations
may be made as required by law or ordinance.
         (b)   Structural alteration of buildings or structures may otherwise
be made if such changes do not further encroach into an existing front yard,
side yard or rear yard which is less than the minimum required yards for the
district in which they are located. Exception: the Board of Adjustment may
allow buildings with side yard setbacks less than required herein to have
additions erected in line with the existing building and provided further that
said additions will be erected no closer to the lot line than the existing
building and the addition shall further conform to all ordinance requirements.
         (c)   Enlargement, extension, conversion of buildings or structures
may otherwise be made if such changes comply with the minimum required yards,
lot area, height, landscaping, parking and density for the district in which
they are located.
      (8)   Nothing contained in this section shall be so construed as to
abridge or curtail the powers of the City Planning Commission/Board of
Adjustment as set forth elsewhere in this chapter.
   (D)   Uses under conditional use provisions not nonconforming uses. Any use
which is permitted as a conditional use in a district under the terms of this
chapter (other than a change through Board of Adjustment action from a
nonconforming use to another use not generally permitted in the district) shall
not be deemed a nonconforming use in such district, but shall without further
action be considered a conforming use.
   (E)   Nonconforming lots of record. In any district in which single-family
dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on any single lot of record after the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this chapter, notwithstanding limitations imposed
by other provisions of this chapter. Such lots must be in separate ownership
and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership.
      (1)   This provision shall apply even though such a lot fails to meet the
requirements of area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than these
applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations
of the district in which such lot is located. Variance of yard requirements
shall be obtained only through action of the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots
with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of
passage or amendment of this chapter, and all or part of the lots do not meet
the requirements established for lot width and area, the land involved shall be
considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this chapter, and no
portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes
compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this chapter,
nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with width or
area below the requirements in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.17  DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The district regulations included in this chapter may be
qualified or supplemented by additional regulations appearing elsewhere in this
chapter.
      (1)   Any use or uses not expressly permitted in a particular district
shall be prohibited, unless such uses are existing at the effective date of
these regulations and qualify as nonconforming uses, or unless a conditional
use permit is granted as provided for in §
154.38(B). Deviation from zoning district lot, yard and related requirements,
and deviation from these zoning regulations, shall be prohibited, unless a
variance is granted as provided for in §
154.38(C).
      (2)   Additional requirements and standards for uses and structures
permitted by conditional use permit may be established by the Board of
Adjustment as conditions to said conditional use permit.
   (B)   Zoning districts. The following zone and use districts are hereby
established for the purposes of administration and enforcement of this chapter.
      (1)   “A” Agricultural District;
      (2)   “R” Residential District;
      (3)   “C” Commercial District; and
      (4)   “I” Industrial District.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.18  “A” AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the “A” Agricultural District is to protect
agricultural land and uses from incompatible land uses and to prevent premature
urban development of certain lands which eventually may be appropriate for
urban uses, until the installation of drainage works, streets, utilities and
community facilities and until objective projections of appropriate land uses
are possible.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses and structures shall be permitted
in the “A” Agricultural District:
      (1)   Any form of agriculture activity and related farm buildings, but
excluding feed lots and sales or auction barns;
      (2)   Site-built single-family dwellings;
      (3)   Modular homes;
      (4)   Type I manufactured homes;
      (5)   Public parks and recreation areas; and
      (6)   On-premises sign.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following accessory uses and structures
shall be permitted in the “A” Agricultural District:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted
uses and structures when established within the space limits of this district;
and
      (2)   Roadside stands for sales of agricultural products grown or
produced on the premises.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted, as a
conditional use in the “A” Agricultural District by the Board of Adjustment
subject to such requirements as the Board deems necessary to protect adjacent
property, prevent objectionable or offensive conditions and promote the health,
safety and general welfare:
      (1)   Airports;
      (2)   Commercial or private recreation areas such as golf courses,
campgrounds, drive in theaters, riding stables, race tracks, swimming pools and
the like;
      (3)   Private clubs;
      (4)   Stables and kennels with outside runs;
      (5)   Type II manufactured home;
      (6)   Type I manufactured home without permanent foundation;
      (7)   Public buildings or facilities erected or established and operated
by any governmental agency;
      (8)   Telecommunication facilities;
      (9)   Home occupations;
      (10)   Utility substations;
      (11)   Commercial nurseries and greenhouses;
      (12)   Veterinary clinics and animal hospitals;
      (13)   Cemeteries;
      (14)   Horticulture services;
      (15)   Railroad and public utilities facilities;
      (16)   Kennel;
      (17)   Extraction of sand, gravel, minerals and petroleum or natural gas;
and
      (18)   Religious institutions.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All uses and structures not specifically permitted or
not permitted by conditional use shall be prohibited in the “A” Agricultural
District.
   (F)   Area/construction regulations. Minimum lot area, maximum building
height, maximum lot coverage and minimum yard requirements shall be regulated
in accordance with the following tables.
 
                          Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Width Maximum Height
Single-family residential 43,560 sq. ft.   150'              35'
Other conditional uses    To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Principal building
associated with a tower   To be determined by the Board of   45'
or steeple                Adjustment
Towers or steeples                                           75'
 
 
                Minimum Front Yard Minimum Rear Yard Minimum Side Yard
Conditional uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Permitted uses   75'                50'               30'
 
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.19  “R” RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the “R” Residential District is to provide
locations for low-density site-built, single-family residential dwellings.
Other types of residential dwellings may be permitted based upon complying with
site review and adjacent landowner concerns.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses and structures shall be permitted
in the “R” Residential District:
      (1)   Site-built single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Modular homes; and
      (4)   Public park and recreation areas.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following accessory uses and structures
shall be permitted in the “R” Residential District: accessory uses and
structures customarily incidental to permitted uses, except stables.
   (D)   Conditional use. The following uses may be permitted as a conditional
use in the “R” Residential District by the Board of Adjustment, subject to such
requirements as Board deems necessary to protect adjacent property, prevent
objectionable or offensive conditions and promote the health, safety and
general welfare:
      (1)   Type I manufactured homes;
      (2)   Type I manufactured homes without permanent foundation;
      (3)   Type II manufactured homes;
      (4)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (5)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (6)   Game lodge;
      (7)   Public and private schools;
      (8)   Home occupations;
      (9)   Hospitals, nursing homes and homes for the aged. Any building
approved for such use shall be set back not less than 50 feet from the street
on which it fronts and shall have side and rear setbacks of not less than 30
feet and shall meet other requirements of this chapter;
      (10)   Commercial or private storage buildings used exclusively for
storage and not for performance of any other services;
      (11)   Registered or licensed day care homes caring for children,
provided that such facilities shall provide not less than 25 square feet of
floor area not including halls or bathrooms and adequate outdoor recreation
space for each child, in addition, such facilities shall supply adequate off-
street parking or other suitable plan for the loading and unloading of children
so as not to obstruct public streets or create other traffic or safety hazards;
      (12)   In-home nursing or convalescent homes with up to four additional
residents other than immediate family;
      (13)   Religious institutions, public libraries, museums and schools;
      (14)   Public utilities and governmental buildings, including
substations, regulator substations, pumping stations, radio and television
transmitter or tower, transmission lines, water filtration plant and storage
reservoir, or other similar public service uses;
      (15)   Off-street parking permitted in the district, provided that
adequate screening is present and that a site plan is approved for any
permanent improvements;
      (16)   Licensed day care centers;
      (17)   Mortuaries;
      (18)   Public buildings or facilities established and operated by any
governmental agency; and
      (19)   Truck terminals existing upon the adoption of this chapter.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All uses and structures not specifically permitted or
not permitted by conditional use shall be prohibited in the “R” Residential
District.
   (F)   Area/construction regulations. Minimum lot area, maximum building
height, maximum fat coverage and minimum yard requirements shall be regulated
in accordance with the following tables:
 
                 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Maximum Height Maximum Percent
                                  Width                      Lot Coverage
Churches,
synagogues,
chapels and      87,120 square    75'         35'*           30%
other similar    feet (2 acres)
places of
worship
Other            To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
conditional uses
Single-family    6,500 square     50'         35'            30%
residence        feet
*Maximum height for steeples and towers shall be 75 feet
 
 
                Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Maximum Height Maximum Percent
                                  Width                      Lot Coverage
Assisted living, 2,000 square
nursing and rest feet/dwelling    60'         35'            40%
homes and the    unit
like
Churches,
synagogues,
chapels and      87,120 square    75'         35'*           30%
other similar    feet (2 acres)
places of
worship
Conditional uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Single-family    6,500 square     50'         35'            30%
residential      feet
Three to four    2,500 square
dwelling units   feet/dwelling    50'         35'            30%
                 unit
Two dwelling     3,000 square
units            feet/dwelling    50'         35'            30%
                 unit
 
 
                 Minimum Front                   Minimum Side Yard
                 Yard          Minimum Rear Yard Party Wall Side Non-Party Wall
                                                                 Side
Assisted living,
nursing and rest 50'           30'               0'              30'
homes and the
like
Conditional uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Single-family    20'           10'               0'              5'
residential
Three or more    20'           20'               0'              7'
dwelling units
Two dwelling     20'           10'               0'              5'
units
 
   (G)   Exception to minimum side yard requirement. The Board of Adjustment
may allow side yards to be less than required in the “R” District, provided an
appropriate easement is recorded at the Codington County Register of Deeds
ensuring that no structures shall hereafter be constructed within a distance
two times the minimum required side yard (ten feet) on the affected adjacent
property.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.20  “C” COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the “C” Commercial District is to provide local
retail and service uses that serve the day to day needs of residents in
convenient and appropriate locations. Uses which may generate more traffic or
serve an expanded market area are listed as conditional uses to ensure that
such uses are compatible with local traffic volumes and neighboring commercial
or residential uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses and structures shall be permitted
in the “C” Commercial District:
      (1)   Retail and wholesale sales;
      (2)   Finance, insurance and real estate services;
      (3)   Business services excluding any warehousing and storage services;
      (4)   Religious institutions, welfare and charitable services, business
associations, professional membership organizations, labor unions and similar
labor organizations, and civic, social and fraternal associations;
      (5)   Eating and drinking places;
      (6)   Communication and utility uses;
      (7)   Public buildings and grounds;
      (8)   Personal service establishments;
      (9)   Indoor recreational facilities and gymnasiums;
      (10)   Bed and breakfasts;
      (11)   Theaters, bowling alleys and pool halls;
      (12)   Professional, governmental and education services;
      (13)   Museum;
      (14)   Printing and publishing establishments;
      (15)   Parking lot and/or garage;
      (16)   Bakery;
      (17)   Offices; and
      (18)   On-premises sign.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following accessory uses and structures
shall be permitted in the “C” Commercial District: accessory buildings and uses
customarily incidental to permitted uses.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted as conditional
uses in “C” Commercial District by the City Board of Adjustment subject to such
requirements, as the Board deems necessary to protect and promote the health,
safety and general welfare:
      (1)   Retail sales of lumber and other building materials (lumberyard),
farm equipment, motor vehicles, marine crafts, mobile homes, trailers, feed,
farm and garden supplies, fuel;
      (2)   Truck or bus terminal;
      (3)   Bar or tavern;
      (4)   Manufacture or assembly of products and goods;
      (5)   Wholesale merchandising or storage warehouse;
      (6)   Licensed day care center;
      (7)   Multiple-family dwelling;
      (8)   Hotel/motel;
      (9)   Establishments manufacturing a product to be sold at retail on
premises to the ultimate consumer;
      (10)   On-off sale liquor establishment;
      (11)   Automobile filling station;
      (12)   Automobile repair station;
      (13)   Commercial storage;
      (14)   Outdoor storage; and
      (15)   Caretaker or watchman’s quarters.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All users and structures not specifically permitted
or not permitted by conditional use shall be prohibited in the “C” Commercial
District.
   (F)   Area/construction regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the following
tables:
 
                 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Maximum Height Maximum Percent
                                  Width                      Lot Coverage
Permitted uses   20,000 square    100'        35'            75%
                 feet
Conditional uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
 
                          Minimum Rear Yard          Minimum Side Yard
            Minimum Front Adjacent to    Adjacent to Adjacent to    Adjacent to
            Yard          Industrial, Ag Residential Industrial, Ag Residential
                          or Commercial  Districts   or Commercial  Districts
                          Districts                  Districts
Permitted   25'           20'            40'         10'            40'
uses
Conditional To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
uses
 
      (2)   All commercial buildings/structures shall be constructed on-site.
Off-site constructed or moved-in structures may be allowed only as a
conditional use.
      (3)   Screening: where any use in the “C” Commercial District is adjacent
to any Residential Zone, that use (building, parking or storage) shall be
appropriately screened from the Residential Use District by plantings or
fencing, except where plantings and/or fencing may be in conflict with §
154.50.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.21  “I” INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the “I” Industrial District is to accommodate
industrial uses meeting performance standards designed to protect nearby non-
industrial uses from adverse environmental conditions, and to accommodate
certain other business uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses and structures shall be permitted
in the “I” Industrial District:
      (1)   Horticulture and the raising of field crops;
      (2)   On-premises signs;
      (3)   Utility substations;
      (4)   Motor freight terminals, garaging and equipment maintenance;
      (5)   Contract construction services;
      (6)   Storage plants, lumber yards, distributing stations and warehouses;
      (7)   Motor freight terminals, garaging and equipment maintenance;
      (8)   Light assembly work, machine shops doing assembling or shaping and
light cutting and sampling; and
      (9)   Woodworking shops or plants.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following accessory uses and structures
shall be permitted in the “I” Industrial District: buildings and structures
customarily incidental to permitted uses.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be .permitted as a
conditional use in the “I” Industrial District by the Board of Adjustment,
subject to such requirements as the Board deems necessary to protect and
promote the health, safety and general welfare:
      (1)   Junk or salvage yards, provided that the area is enclosed or
screened from public view as required by the Board of Adjustment;
      (2)   Slaughterhouse;
      (3)   Explosive manufacture or storage;
      (4)   Fertilizer manufacture;
      (5)   Incineration or reduction of garbage, dead animals, fat or refuse;
      (6)   Livestock sales or auction barns and yards;
      (7)   Adult uses (see §
154.56);
      (8)   Outdoor storage; and
      (9)   Other industrial or commercial uses determined by the Board of
Adjustment to be consistent with the intent of this district, and can meet the
performance standards described in division (F) below.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All uses and structures not specifically permitted or
not permitted by conditional use shall be prohibited in the “I” District.
   (F)   Area/construction regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the following
tables:
 
                Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Maximum Height Maximum Percent
                                  Width                      Lot Coverage
Conditional uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
Permitted uses   20,000 square    100'        45'            50%
                 feet
 
 
                          Minimum Rear Yard          Minimum Side Yard
            Minimum Front Adjacent to    Adjacent to Adjacent to    Adjacent to
            Yard          Industrial, Ag Residential Industrial, Ag Residential
                          or Commercial  Districts   or Commercial  Districts
                          Districts                  Districts
Conditional To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
uses
Permitted   50'           25'            35'         10'            35'
uses
 
      (2)   Side yards and rear yards abutting any residential district shall
be landscaped or fenced in a manner to buffer residential uses.
      (3)   Storage yards for junk shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from
any adjoining street fine and 35 feet from any other properly line, and shall
be screened by a solid wall at least two feet above the highest stock pile and
maintained in a state of good repair. Further provided, that no storage yard
for junk shall be allowed on any lot in an “I” Industrial Zone that is within
500 feet of a residential zone.
      (4)   All industrial buildings/structures shall be constructed on-site.
Off-site constructed structures or moved-in structures may be allowed only with
a conditional use permit.
      (5)   Where any use in the “I” District is adjacent to any Residential
Zone, that use (building, parking or storage) shall be appropriately screened
from the Residential Use District by plantings or fencing, except where
plantings and/or fencing may be in conflict with §
154.50.
   (G)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Noise. All noise shall be muffled so as not to be objectionable due
to intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness.
      (2)   Air pollution. State emission standards shall be met by all
possible sources of air pollution. In any case, there shall not be discharged
from any sources whatsoever such quantities of air contaminants, smoke or
detriment, nuisance or annoyance to any considerable number of persons or to
the public in general to endanger the comfort, health or safety of any such
considerable number of persons or have a natural tendency to cause injury or
damage to business, vegetation or property.
      (3)   Odor. The emission of odorous matter in such quantities as to be
readily detectable at any point along lot lines or to produce a public nuisance
or hazard beyond lot lines is prohibited.
      (4)   Glare, heat or radiation. Every use shall be so operated that there
is no emission or heat, glare or radiation visible or discernable beyond the
property line.
      (5)   Vibration. Every use shall be so operated that the ground vibration
inherently and recurrently generated is not perceptible, without instruments,
at any point on the property line.
      (6)   Sewage and liquid wastes. No operation shall be carried on which
involves the discharge into a sewer, watercourse, river or the ground of liquid
wastes of any radio-active nature, or liquid wastes of chemical nature, which
are detrimental to normal sewage plant operations or corrosive or damaging to
sewer pipes and installations.
      (7)   Fire hazard. All flammable substances involved in any activity or
use, shall be handled in conformance with the standard of the National Board of
Fire Underwriters and any additional regulations that may from time to time be
adopted by the City Council.
      (8)   Physical appearance. All operations shall be carried on within an
enclosed building except that new or operable equipment and waste materials
stored in enclosed containers, not readily visible from the street, may be
displayed or stored in the open.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.35  GENERAL.
   (A)   Permits required. No building or other structure shall be erected,
moved, added to or structurally altered without a permit issued by the City
Council. The City Council except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter shall issue no permit, unless it issues a written order in the form of
an administrative review, under conditional use, or variance as provided by
this chapter is received.
   (B)   Applications. All applications for permits shall be accompanied by a
site plan drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to
be built upon; the exact sizes and locations on the lot of the buildings
already existing, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed
building or alteration. The application shall include such other information as
lawfully may be required by the Administrative Official, including legal
description, existing or proposed buildings or alterations; existing or
proposed uses of the building and land; the number of families, housekeeping
units or rental units the building is designed to accommodate conditions
existing on the lot; and such other matters as may be necessary to determine
conformity with, and provide for the enforcement of, this chapter.
   (C)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   The City Council shall by resolution establish a schedule of fees,
charges and expense and a collection procedure for building permits,
conditional use permits, variances, amendments, appeals and other matters
pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended only
by the City Council.
      (2)   The current fee schedule shall be available from the Administrative
Official. All fees shall be the property of the city and shall be paid over to
the City Finance Officer for credit to the General Fund of the city, which
under no condition shall be refunded. Until all applicable fees, charges and
expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or
appeal.
   (D)   Issuance of permits. Permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Administrative Official on behalf of the City
Council authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set forth in such
approved plans and applications, and other use, arrangement or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed violation of this chapter, and
punishable as provided by §
154.02(B).
   (E)   Expiration of use permit. Unless otherwise specified by the Board of
Adjustments, if the work desired in any use permit has not begun within 90 days
from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire. It shall be
canceled by the Administrative Official, and written notice thereof shall be
given to the persons affected. If the work described in any use permit has not
been substantially completed within one year of the date of issuance thereof,
said permit shall expire and be canceled by the Administrative Official, and
written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with
notice that further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed
unless and until a new permit has been obtained.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.36  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Establishment and purpose. The position of Administrative Official is
hereby established for the city. The Administrative Official may be employed by
the city or other entity in another position. The City Council shall appoint
the Administrative Official. Further, he or she may be provided with the
assistance of such other persons as the City Council may direct. The
Administrative Official shall administer and enforce this chapter. It is the
intent of this chapter that all questions of interpretation and enforcement
shall be first presented to the Administrative Official and that such questions
shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment only on appeal from the decision
of the Administrative Official.
   (B)   Duties. The powers and duties of the Administrative Official shall be
as follows:
      (1)   Issue all building permits as approved by the City Council and make
and maintain records thereof;
      (2)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and the use of land to
determine compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Notify in writing persons responsible for violations, indicating
the nature of the violation and ordering action necessary to correct;
      (4)   Order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or
structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions;
alterations or structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being
done; or shall take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure
compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions;
      (5)   Revoke any permit, which was unlawfully issued, or any permit
wherein defective work has been performed, and when such work has not been
corrected within 90 days of notification;
      (6)   Maintain permanent and current records of this regulation,
including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments, variances, appeals and
applications;
      (7)   Provide public information relative to all matters arising out of
this chapter;
      (8)   Forward to the City Council all applications for building permits
in accordance with this chapter;
      (9)   Forward to the Planning and Zoning Commission all applications for
amendments to this chapter;
      (10)   Forward to the Board of Adjustment, applications for appeals,
variances or other matters on which the Board of Adjustment is required to pass
under this chapter;
      (11)   Initiate, direct and review, from time to time, a study of the
provisions of this chapter, and to make such reports available to the Planning
and Zoning Commission. The Administrative Official shall receive applications
for building permits, conditional uses, variances and zoning amendments;
      (12)   For building permits, the Administrative Official, on behalf of
the City Council, shall issue building permits only in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, and which have been approved by the City Council;
      (13)   For conditional use s and variances, the Administrative Official
shall review the application, and shall provide a review of the application to
the Board of Adjustment to either approve or approve said application; and
      (14)   For zoning amendments, the Administrative Official shall review
the application, and shall provide a review of the application to the Planning
and Zoning Commission and City Council.
   (C)   Powers. If the Administrative Official shall find that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in
writing the persons responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of
the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall
order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal
of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations or
structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or
to prevent violation of its provisions.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.37  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. A Board of Adjustment is hereby established, which
shall consist of the members of the City Council, as provided for in the
provisions of SDCL Chapter 11-4.
   (B)   Procedures for meetings.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct
of its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this chapter. The City
Council President shall act as Chairperson of the Board. Meetings shall be held
at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board of
Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings shall be open to the public.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its meetings of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent
or failing to vote indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official action, all of which shall be a public record
and be immediately filed in the office of the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Hearings; appeals; notice.
      (1)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment concerning interpretation or
administration of this chapter may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer of the governing body of the city affected by any decision of the
Administrative Official. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time,
not to exceed 60 days or such lesser period as may be provided by the rules of
the Board, by filing with the Administrative Official and with the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Administrative Official shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken from.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
of appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in
interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any
party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
   (D)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the Administrative Official from whom the
appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal
is filed with him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a
stay would, in his or her opinion, cause an imminent peril to life and
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court
of record on application, on notice to the Administrative Official from whom
the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   (E)   Powers and duties of Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment
shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Administrative review.
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Administrative
Official in the enforcement of this chapter.
         (b)   To hear and decide appeals to decisions made by the
Administrative Official regarding zoning permits.
      (2)   Conditional uses. To hear and decide only such conditional uses as
the Board of Adjustment is specifically authorized to pass on by the terms of
this chapter; to decide such questions as are involved in determining whether
conditional uses should be granted; and to grant conditional uses with such
conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under this chapter, or to deny
conditional uses when not in harmony with the purpose and intent of this
chapter; and
      (3)   Variances. To hear requests for variances from this chapter in
instances where strict enforcement would cause unnecessary hardship, and to
authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this
chapter as which will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
would result in unnecessary hardship.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.38  PROCEDURES FOR APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Building permits.
      (1)   No new development, change of use, moving in/moving out of
structures, demolition or other action which may be regulated by the provisions
of this chapter including use, height, number of occupants, lot area, off-
street parking or yard requirements, shall occur without a building permit
issued by the Administrative Official. Building permits issued on the basis of
plans and applications recommended for approval by the City Council and
approved by the Administrative Official authorize only the use, arrangement or
construction set forth in such approved plans and specifications.
      (2)   Any use, arrangement or construction at variance without
authorization shall be deemed a violation of this regulation and shall be
punishable as provided by this regulation. The failure to obtain the necessary
building permit shall be punishable under this regulation.
         (a)   The landowner, or applicant on behalf of the landowner,
requesting the building permit shall complete an application for a building
permit, accompanied with the appropriate fee, available from the Administrative
Official. Completed applications shall be returned to the Administrative
Official for review. To be considered complete, the application form shall be
accompanied by the following additional items.
            1.   Applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a
site plan drawn to scale with the following information indicated in order to
determine compliance with this chapter.
            2.   A site plan, drawn to scale, showing the exact size, shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and location on the lot
of all existing buildings and structures, and the exact size and location on
the lot of the structure or building proposed to be repaired, altered, erected
or moved, and the size, arrangement, number of parking stalls, movement of
vehicles and ingress and egress drives for all off-street parking and loading
facilities.
            3.   The location of the said lot with respect to existing rights-
of-way and adjacent lots.
            4.   A letter of certification stating that the lot to be built
upon has been accurately surveyed. This requirement may be waived by the
Administrative Official in the event lot markers (pins) have been located.
            5.   Any other information which the Administrative Official may
deem necessary for consideration in enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   One copy of the application shall be returned to the applicant,
after the Administrative Official has marked such copy as either approved or
disapproved, and attested to the same by signing said copy of the plans, the
Administrative Official, for city records, shall retain one copy of the
application, similarly marked.
         (c)   The Administrative Official shall then, if the application is
approved, issue a signed building permit. If the Administrative Official
determines the proposed action would not be in compliance with the provisions
of these regulations, a building permit may not be issued, and the applicant
may then appeal the action of the Administrative Official to the Board of
Adjustment
         (d)   Building permits shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the
premises and visible from a public right-of-way at all times from the beginning
until completion of such construction, alteration or repair.
         (e)   With application for a building permit, the site must be clearly
staked out and/or the Administrative Official will examine plans that clearly
indicate the structure to be erected or remodeled, or alterations of the
existing structure.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses are allowed for certain uses in some zoning
districts. Uses not listed within the individual zoning districts as eligible
for a conditional use permit shall not, in any circumstances, be granted a
conditional use permit.
      (2)   The following procedure for requesting a conditional use permit
shall be followed.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall follow the following procedure in
considering the recommendation of the Administrative Official. A conditional
use permit from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the Board of
Adjustment unless and until:
            1.   The landowner, or applicant on behalf of the landowner,
requesting the conditional use permit shall complete an application for a
conditional use permit, available from the Administrative Official. Any
required attachments and fees as in §
154.35 shall further accompany the application. The written application for a
conditional use shall indicate the section of this chapter under which the
conditional use is sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested;
completed applications shall be returned to the Administrative Official for
review. To be considered by the Board of Adjustment, the application form shall
be completed, if any of the information required by division (A) above has
changed since the original building permit application, the revised, update or
corrected information shall accompany the application for a conditional use
permit;
            2.   The Administrative Official shall review the application, and
shall prepare a summary of the application, and recommended reasons, and
justification for either approval of or disapproval of the application;
            3.   The Administrative Official shall set the date, time and place
for a public hearing to be held by the Board of Adjustment. Not less than ten
days prior to the public hearing, the Administrative Official shall notify the
adjacent landowners (excluding streets and alley) by mail; shall publish notice
of the public hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation in the area
affected by the proposed conditional use permit. The notification of adjacent
landowners and publication of notice shall be performed by the Administrative
Official at the expense of the applicant;
            4.   A public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in
person, or by agent or attorney;
            5.   The Board of Adjustment shall rule that it is empowered under
the section of this chapter described in the application to grant the
conditional use, and that the granting of the conditional use will not
adversely affect the public interest; and
            6.   Before any conditional use permit shall be issued, the Board
of Adjustment shall make written finding certifying compliance with the
specific rules governing individual conditional uses and that satisfactory
provision and arrangement has been made concerning the following, where
applicable:
               a.   Utilities, refuse and service areas, with reference to
locations, availability and compatibility;
               b.   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions
and character;
               c.   Required yards and other open space;
               d.   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other
property in the district;
               e.   Entrance and exit to property and proposed and proposed
structures thereon with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian
safety and convenience, traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or
catastrophe; and
               f.   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with
reference to glare, traffic safety, economic effect and compatibility and
harmony with properties.
         (b)   In order to preserve the intent of these zoning regulations and
to protect the public interest, the Board of Adjustment may attach conditions
to a conditional use permit. A conditional use permit shall remain valid only
as long as the terms and conditions of the conditional use permit, as attached
by the Board of Adjustment are complied with.
         (c)   Approval of any application for a conditional use permit shall
be by a two-thirds majority (two votes) of all members of the Board of
Adjustment.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Variances are designed to allow some flexibility in the zoning
regulations in cases where the exceptional shape of a parcel of land, the use
of a property is overwhelmingly affected by exceptional topographic conditions,
or any other extraordinary situation or condition of such a parcel of land.
Variances are to be approved only when a property owner demonstrates that the
provisions of all or part of these regulations present an undue hardship on
such property owner’s use of such parcel of land. A variance shall include a
description of the specific regulatory item or items in this chapter, which are
found to produce said undue hardship. Variances shall only be granted when the
Board of Adjustments finds that such relief from these zoning regulations will
be neither detrimental to the public good nor in conflict with the intent of
these zoning regulations.
      (2)   The following procedure for requesting a variance shall be
followed.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall follow the following procedure in
considering the recommendation of the Administrative Official. A variance from
the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment
unless and until:
            1.   An application for variance, available from the Administrative
Official, shall be completed by the landowner, or applicant on behalf of the
landowner, requesting the variance and shall be accompanied by any required
attachments and fees as in §
154.35(C). The written application for a variance shall indicate the section of
this chapter under which the variance is sought and stating the grounds for
which it is requested. Completed applications shall be returned to the
Administrative Official for review. To be considered by the Board of
Adjustment, the application form shall be completed. If any of the information
required by division (A) above has changed since the original building permit
application, the revised, updated or corrected information shall accompany the
application for a variance.
            2.   The Administrative Official shall review the application, and
shall prepare a summary of the application, and recommended reasons and
justification for either approval of or disapproval of the application.
            3.   The Administrative Official shall set the date, time and place
for a public hearing to be held by the Board of Adjustment. Not less than ten
days prior to the public hearing, the Administrative Official shall notify the
adjacent landowners (excluding streets and alley) by mail; shall publish notice
of the public hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation in the area
affected by the proposed conditional use Permit. The notification of adjacent
landowners and publication of notice shall be performed by the Administrative
Official at the expense of the applicant.
            4.   A public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in
person, or by agent or attorney;
            5.   The Board of Adjustment shall follow the following procedure
in considering the recommendation of the Administrative Official. A variance
from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustments
unless and until:
               a.   A written application for a variance is submitted
demonstrating:
                  i.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which
are peculiar to the land, structure or building involved, and which are not
applicable to other land, structures or buildings in the same district;
                  ii.   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this
chapter would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same district under the terms of this chapter;
                  iii.   That the special conditions and circumstance do not
result from the actions of the applicant; and
                  iv.   That granting the variance request will not confer on
the applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other
lands, structures or buildings in the same district.
               b.   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or
buildings in the same district, and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands,
structures or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the
issuance of a variance.
         (b)   The Board of Adjustment shall make findings that the
requirements of division (C)(2)(a)5. above have been met by the applicant for a
variance.
         (c)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and
that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of land, building or structure.
         (d)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter, and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
         (e)   Approval of any variance shall be by a two-thirds majority (two
votes) of all members of the Board of Adjustment.
         (f)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and punishable under §
154.02(B).
         (g)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in the
district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this chapter in said district.
   (D)   Board has powers of Administrative Official on appeals: reversing
decision of Administrative Official.
      (1)   It is the intent if this chapter that all questions of
interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the Administrative
Official, and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment
only on appeal from the decision of the Administrative Official.
      (2)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Board of Adjustment
may, so long as such action is in conformity with the terms of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement,
decision or determination as ought to be made, and to that end shaft have the
powers of the Administrative Official from whom the appeal is taken.
      (3)   The concurring vote of two-thirds of all members (two votes) of the
Board of Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of the Administrative Official, or to decide in favor
of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter, or to effect any variation in the application of this chapter.
   (E)   Appeals. Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any
decision of the Board of Adjustment may present to a court of record a petition
duly verified, setting forth that the decision is illegal, in whole or in part,
specifying the grounds of the illegality. The petition shall be presented to
the court within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Finance Officer.
   (F)   Zoning amendments.
      (1)   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this
chapter may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or repealed,
provided, however, that no such action may be taken until after a public
hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in interest and citizens shall
have an opportunity to be heard. Unless otherwise provided for in these
regulations, any change in these regulations, shall require City Council
approval of an ordinance describing said changes. The City Council may not
consider said ordinance until the Planning and Zoning Commission has delivered
a recommendation to either approve or not approve said ordinance.
      (2)   The following procedure for requesting a zoning amendment shall be
followed.
         (a)   1.   An application for amendment, available from the
Administrative Official, shall be completed by the landowner or other person(s)
requesting the amendment. Completed applications shall be returned to the
Administrative Official for review. To be considered by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and City Council, the application form shall be completed and shall
be accompanied by the following items:
               a.   Any required attachments and fees, including registered or
certified mail costs in §
154.35(C); and
               b.   Any additional information, as requested by the
Administrative Official, as lawfully may be required to determine conformance
with and provide for enforcement of this chapter.
            2.   The Administrative Official shall review the application, and
shall forward a summary of the application, and his or her comments regarding
said application, to the Planning and Zoning Commission for their review.
            3.   The Administrative Official shall set the date, time, and
place for a joint public hearing to be held by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and City Council. The Administrative Official shall publish notice
of the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the area
affected by the proposed amendment; such notice shall be published not less
than ten days prior to the public hearing, if the proposed amendment will
change the boundaries of a zoning district, the Administrative Official shall
notify all owners of property within 250 feet of the proposed boundary change,
by registered or certified mail at the expense of the applicant, at least ten
days before the public hearing.
            4.   The public hearing shall be held. Any person may appear in
person, or by agent or attorney. Minutes of the public hearing shall be
recorded and kept in the records of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
            5.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall either recommend or
not recommend approval of the amendment to the City Council.
            6.   The City Council shall either approve or not approve the
ordinance describing the proposed changes to these zoning regulations, in
accordance with standard procedures for reading, approval, publication and
effective date.
            7.   When the City Council approves a proposed amendment affecting
the zoning classification of property, affected property owners may file a
written protest to stop such an amendment from taking effect. If the protest
meets the following standard, such amendment shall not become effective unless
the amendment is approved by two-thirds of the City Council.
         (b)   The protest shall be signed by at least 40% of the owners of
equity in the parcels in the area affected by the amendment, and the parcels or
parts of parcels within 250 feet of the area affected by the amendment.
   (G)   Reapplication. No application requesting a variance, conditional use,
or zoning ordinance amendment or district classification change on any property
whose application includes any such property either entirely or substantially
the same as that which has been denied by the Board, shall again be considered
by the Planning Commission or Board of Adjustment before the expiration of six
months from the date of the final action of the Planning Commission or Board of
Adjustment
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.50  VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On a corner lot in any zoning district, no planting or obstruction to vision
between the range of three feet and eight feet in height measured from the
centerline of the road shall be placed or maintained within the triangular area
formed by the intersection road right-of-way lines and a straight line
connecting points on said road right-of-way line, each of which is 50 feet
distance from the point of intersection (clear view triangle).
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.51  FENCES.
   (A)   No person shall hereafter construct, erect or maintain or cause to be
constructed, erected or maintained, in the city corporate limits any fences of
any character or material, without first securing permission from the
Administrative Official.
   (B)   Fences, walls and hedges which are more than 30% solid shall abide by
§
154.50.
   (C)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, fences, walls and
hedges with a maximum height of not more than seven feet high, may be erected
on any part of a lot other than in the required front yard which shall be
limited to a height of three feet.
   (D)   Hedges or other plantings which create a fence effect are subject to
the same regulations as fences
   (E)   No person shall hereafter construct erect, or maintain or cause to be
constructed, erected or maintained, in the city corporate limits any fences of
any character or material closer than two feet to the sidewalk line or property
line. Exception: a fence/wall/hedge may be placed on the property line provided
the fence/wall/hedge is shared between property owners and agreement providing
for the maintenance of said fence/wall/hedge is recorded at the Register of
Deeds.
   (F)   Approved fencing materials include stone, brick, wood, vinyl and chain
link. The city further requires fencing materials to be “new” used for first
time installation. Individuals wishing to utilize “used” not first time
installation fencing materials shall require Board of Adjustment approval. No
electric or barbed wire fence shall be used in the construction of any fences
within the “R” Residential District, “GC” General Commercial District or on the
property lines separating commercial or industrial zoned property with
residentially zoned property. Except that barbed wire may be used in connection
with a security fence when the barbed wire is at least six feet from the
ground.
   (G)   Fences that are adjacent to alleys shall be set back five feet from
the street/boulevard right-of-way.
   (H)   That side of the fence considered being the face (facing as applied to
fence post) should face abutting property.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.52  ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   No accessory use shall be deemed to be authorized by this chapter
unless such use is in fact subordinate to and on the same parcel with the
principal use in conjunction with which it is maintained.
   (B)   No accessory use shall be permitted in any district unless such use is
specifically authorized by this chapter.
   (C)   No accessory building which is attached to or within ten feet of a
principal structure shall be erected in any required yard. Exceptions:
      (1)   No separate accessory building shall be erected within five feet of
any side or rear lot line, except that, when a garage is entered directly from
an alley, it shall not be located closer than 20 feet to the alley line; and
      (2)   Accessory buildings may be located in a rear yard, but may not
occupy more than 30% of a rear yard, and shall not be used for dwelling
purposes.
   (D)   No separate accessory building shall be erected within five feet of
any other building.
   (E)   No accessory building may be used for residential dwelling purposes at
any time.
   (F)   Residential districts: accessory uses shall be permitted for the
principal permitted uses and conditional use s of the residential districts
only in accordance with the provisions of the following table hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be part of this chapter.
   (G)   Commercial and industrial districts: in any commercial or industrial
district, any accessory use customarily incident to the principal permitted use
or conditional use shall be permitted, except those uses specifically
prohibited in the district.
...[missing material]...
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.53  SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a
set of standards for the fabrication, erection and use of signs, symbols,
markings or advertising devices within the city. These standards are designed
to protect and promote the general welfare, health and safety of persons within
the community to aid and assist in the development and promotion of business
and industry by providing regulations which allow and encourage creativity,
effectiveness and flexibility in the design and use of such devices.
   (B)   On- and off-site signs.
      (1)   No private sign shall be erected or maintained which:
         (a)   Creates a hazard due to collapse, fire, collision, decay or
abandonment; or
         (b)   Creates traffic hazards, by either:
            1.   Confusing or distracting motorists;
            2.   Impairing the driver’s ability to see pedestrians, obstacles
or other vehicles;
            3.   Impairing the driver’s ability to see and interpret any
official traffic sign, signal or device;
            4.   Creates a nuisance to persons using a public right-of-way; or
            5.   Constitutes a nuisance to occupancy of adjacent and contiguous
property by its brightness, size, height or movement.
      (2)   Signs shall be permitted in all zoning districts, subject to the
following provisions:
         (a)   Wall signs may be located anywhere on the wall of a building.
         (b)   Freestanding signs shall not project over public property.
         (c)   Temporary signs for public or private institutions, school,
nonprofit membership organizations and philanthropic institutions that are
educational, cultural; religious or recreational in nature, may display
temporary on-premises or off-premises signs shall not require a permit provide
the following:
            1.   The size shall not exceed 60 square feet; and
            2.   The height of the sign shall not exceed eight feet.
         (d)   Freestanding signs shall not be erected adjacent to a corner of
two intersecting streets, unless such signs are constructed to not obstruct the
view of said intersection.
         (e)   Each sign in the incorporated limits of the city shall at least
meet the standards established by the State Department of Transportation.
         (f)   Other than utility fixtures or holiday decorations, no signs,
awnings or display shall be suspended, hanged or placed so that the same shall
hang over any part of a street or sidewalk, used for vehicular or pedestrian
travel unless a written application for a permit is made to the Administrative
Official and the said Official grants a permit therefor.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.54  PARKING.
   (A)   Parking, storage or use of major recreation equipment. For purposes of
these regulations, major recreational equipment is defined as including boats
and boat trailers, travel trailers, pick-up campers or coaches (designed to be
mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent trailers and the
like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether
occupied by such equipment or not. No major recreational equipment shall be
parked or stored in the required front yard of any lot in a residential
district, provided however, that such equipment may be parked anywhere on 37
residential premises for a period not to exceed 72 hours. No such equipment
shall be used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes when parked or
stored on a residential lot, or in any location not approved for such use.
   (B)   Parking and storage of certain vehicles. Automotive vehicles or
trailers of any kind or type inoperable or without current license plates shall
not be parked or stored on any property in the “GC” General Commercial, “I”
Industrial or “R” Residential District other than in completely enclosed
buildings.
   (C)   Off-street parking requirements. Except in the “C” Commercial
District, off-street motor vehicle parking and loading spaces shall hereafter
be provided on the same lot as, and in the number stated, for each use set
forth in the Schedule of Minimum Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
below. In the event the minimum number of spaces specified cannot be reasonably
provided on the same lot as the principal use for which the spaces are
required, the Zoning Commission may permit such spaces to be provided on other
off-street property within 400 feet of the entrance to such principal use.
Use or Structure Minimum Off-Street Parking Minimum Off-Street Loading
                 Requirements               Requirements
Use or Structure          Minimum Off-Street Parking Minimum Off-Street Loading
                          Requirements               Requirements
Bed and breakfast         One space for each guest   None
                          room
Bowling alleys            Four spaces per alley      One space per
                                                     establishment
                          One space for each four
Churches                  seats in the main seating  None
                          area
Eating and drinking       One space for each three   One space per
places                    customer seating spaces    establishment
Hospitals                 One space for each three   Three spaces per
                          beds                       establishment
Hotels/motels             One space for each guest   One space per
                          room                       establishment
                          One space for each two     Two spaces per
Industrial uses           employees on the maximum   establishment
                          working shift
Libraries                 One space for each 500     One space per
                          square feet of floor area  establishment
Manufactured home parks   Two spaces for each        None
                          manufactured home
                          One space for each
Medical or dental clinics examining or operating     None
                          room plus one space for
                          each doctor and employee
Mortuaries and funeral    Five spaces for each       Two spaces per
homes                     reposing room              establishment
Multiple-family           Two spaces for each
dwellings; nursing,       dwelling unit exclusive or None
convalescent and rest     required yards
homes
                          One space for each 100
Private clubs, lodges,    square feet or one space
social or fraternal       for each three seats at    None
organizations             bars or dining tables,
                          whichever is greater
Retail sales              One space for each 300     One space per
establishments            square feet of floor area  establishment
Schools                   One space for each 25      One space per school
                          students
Service establishments    One space for each 300     One space per
                          square feet of floor area  establishment
                          Two spaces for each
Single-family dwellings   dwelling unit exclusive of None
                          required yards
Theaters, auditoriums and One space for each four    One space per
places of public assembly seats of design capacity   establishment
Wholesale and             One space for each two     Two spaces per
distribution              employees on the maximum   establishment
                          working shift
 
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.55  STRUCTURES TO HAVE ACCESS.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a
public street, or with access to private streets approved by the Board of
Adjustment, and all structures shall be so located on lots as to provide safe
and convenient access for services, fire protection and required off-street
parking.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.56  ADULT USES.
   In the development and execution of these regulations, it is recognized that
there are some uses which, because of their very nature, are recognized as
having serious objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when
several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances thereby having a
deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas. Special regulation of these uses is
necessary to ensure that these adverse effects will not contribute to the
blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood. These special
regulations are itemized in this section. The primary control or regulation is
for the purpose of preventing a concentration of these uses in any one area.
   (A)   Setbacks.
      (1)   None of the following uses may be established, operated or
maintained within 350 feet of a residence, a church, a school meeting all the
requirements of the Compulsory Education Laws of the state, or a public park:
         (a)   Adult bookstore;
         (b)   Adult motion picture theater;
         (c)   Adult photo studio;
         (d)   Adult entertainment facility;
         (e)   Any use which has as a part of its operation an adult use
component including, but not limited to, a restaurant or eating place, a bar,
lounge or tavern; or
         (f)   Any use intended to provide adult amusement or entertainment.
      (2)   Not more than two of the following uses may be established,
operated or maintained within 350 feet of each other:
         (a)   Adult bookstore;
         (b)   Adult motion picture theater;
         (c)   Adult photo studio;
         (d)   Adult entertainment facility;
         (e)   Any use which has as a part of its operation an adult use
component including, but not limited to, a restaurant or eating place, a bar,
lounge or tavern;
         (f)   Any use intended to provide adult amusement or entertainment;
         (g)   A bar; and
         (h)   A liquor store.
      (3)   The 350-foot restriction provided for in division (A)(2) above may
be waived and a conditional use permit issued upon proper application if the
Board of Adjustment finds:
         (a)   The proposed use will not be contrary to the public interest or
injurious to nearby properties and that the spirit and intent of these
regulations will be observed;
         (b)   The proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the development
of a ‘skid row’ area; and
         (c)   All applicable regulations will be observed.
   (B)   Required license. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of operating an adult use in the city without first having obtained a
license from the City Council.
   (C)   Application: standards for issuance.
      (1)   Application for an adult use license shall be made in writing and
shall state the following:
         (a)   The name, address, telephone number and age of the applicant and
the registered agent of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation;
         (b)   The location of the adult use business;
         (c)   The exact nature of the adult use to be conducted and of the
proposed place of business and the facilities related thereto;
         (d)   A statement by the applicant that he or she is familiar with the
provisions of this section and is in compliance with them;
         (e)   A statement of whether the business will be conducted by a
manager and, if so, the name, address, telephone number and age of each such
manager; and
         (f)   A statement that no manager or principal operating the business
has been convicted of any offense of prostitution, soliciting for prostitution,
or obscenity or public indecency as defined in the state statutes within the
last two years, and that the applicant has not had any license for an adult use
in any other community revoked within the last two years.
      (2)   Within 15 days after receipt of an application, for an adult use
license, the City Council shall investigate the information contained in the
application and shall determine the following:
         (a)   The premises designated by the applicant as the location of the
business are in full compliance with all applicable ordinances of the city,
including zoning ordinances.
         (b)   The premises and each manager and employee comply with the
provisions of division (C)(1) above as such provisions apply to them.
         (c)   The applicant, each manager and each employee are over 21 years
of age.
         (d)   No manager or principal operator of the business has been
convicted of any offense of prostitution, solicitation for prostitution, or
obscenity or public indecency, as defined in the state statutes within the last
two years, and that the applicant has not had any license for an adult use
revoked within the last two years.
      (3)   If the investigation shows the compliance of the applicant for an
adult use license, the premises upon which the business is to be conducted and
each manager and employee, if applicable, with each of the requirements
established in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above, and with the conditions and
regulations set forth in this division (C) within 15 days after completion of
such investigation, the City Council shall issue a license, and upon payment by
the applicant of the license fee required under this subchapter, the license
shall be issued.
      (4)   If the investigation shows that the applicant for an adult use
license, the premises on which the business is to be conducted, or the managers
and employees, if applicable, do not comply with each of the requirements
established in division (C)(1) above, and with the conditions and regulations
set forth in division (D) below within 15 days after completion of such
investigation, the City Council shall notify the applicant in writing that, the
license has been denied. Such denial shall be the final administrative action
of the city with respect to the license application, and shall be subject to
the immediate appeal by the applicant to the Circuit Court.
   (D)   Conditions and regulations governing operation; violation; penalty.
      (1)   The following regulations shall govern and control the business of
operating an adult use in the city.
         (a)   No person under 21 years of age shall be allowed on the licensed
premises.
         (b)   At all times during the hours of operation there shall be
present a manager or other employee of the licensee who shall be not less than
21 years of age.
         (c)   Upon a change of any manager conducting business for the
licensee, the licensee shall, within ten regular business days, give the City
Council written notice of such change by actual delivery or by registered or
certified mail. The licensee shall, thereafter, as promptly as practicable, but
in any event within five regular business days, provide the information
concerning the new manager which is required in division (C) above.
         (d)   No adult use shall be located on premises for which a license to
sell alcoholic liquor has been issued, and no alcoholic liquor shall be
permitted on such premises.
         (e)   No adult use shall be permitted unless the premises on which
such business is located complies with the requirements of this chapter.
         (f)   No licensee or manager under the provisions of this section
shall knowingly permit any person to remain in or upon licensed premises who
commits any act of public indecency or obscenity as defined in the state
statutes.
         (g)   No licensee or manager under the provisions of this section
shall permit any act of prostitution, solicitation for prostitution or
patronization of a prostitute on the licensed premises.
         (h)   No sign shall be posted on the licensed premises which depicts,
displays or refers to specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, as defined in this subchapter.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements established in division (D)(1)
above, the following regulations shall govern and control the operation of an
adult bookstore which offers any films or videotapes for viewing on premises by
use of motion picture devices or other such operations means:
         (a)   All viewing areas, which shall be defined as the area where a
patron or customer would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film or
viewing device, shall be visible from a continuous main aisle or public room
and shall not be obscured by any curtain, door, wall or other enclosure;
         (b)   There shall be no aperture whatsoever in any wall or partition
between viewing areas; and
         (c)   Each viewing area shall be lighted at a minimum level of ten
footcandles in all parts thereof.
      (3)   In addition to the requirements established in division (D)(1)
above, the following regulations shall govern and control the operation of an
adult entertainment facility.
         (a)   All performers shall be at least 21 years of age.
         (b)   All performances, exhibitions or displays shall take place on a
platform raised at least two feet from the level of the floor, and located at
least ten feet from any patron.
         (c)   No performer shall fondle or caress any patron or other
performer and no patron shall fondle or caress any performer.
         (d)   No patron shall be permitted to pay or give any gratuity to any
performer, and no performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed to engage in the
business of operating an adult use within the city to fail to comply with the
conditions and regulations set forth in divisions (C) and (D) of this section
as they are applicable to the licensed business, or to suffer or permit
noncompliance with such conditions and regulations on or within the licensed
premises. In this regard, any act or omission of an employee shall be deemed
the act or omission of the owner if such act or omission occurred either with
the authorization, knowledge or approval of the owner or as a result of the
owner’s negligent failure to supervise the employee’s conduct. All conduct
occurring while on the premises shall be presumed to be the responsibility of
the owner.
      (5)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
subject to a fine pursuant to §
154.99(B).
   (E)   Suspension or revocation. Nothing in the terms of this section shall
preclude the right of the City Council to suspend or revoke the license of the
licensee, as follows.
      (1)   The City Council may temporarily suspend any license issued under
the terms of this section when he or she has reason to believe that the
continued operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten
the welfare of the community or create an imminent danger of violation of
applicable law. In such case, he or she may, upon the issuance of a written
order stating the reason for such determination, and without notice or hearing,
order the licensed premises closed for not more than seven days; provided, that
the licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard in a public hearing
during the seven-day period, and further provided that if such licensee shall
also be engaged in the conduct of other business on the licensed premises, such
order shall not be applicable to such other businesses.
      (2)   The City Council may suspend or revoke any license issued under the
terms of this section upon ten days notice to the licensee of the time and
place of a public hearing, and a public hearing at which the licensee may
appear and present evidence, if the City Council determines upon such hearing
that the licensee has failed or refused to comply with the terms of this
section, has failed or refused to comply with other law applicable to the
business of operating an adult use, has knowingly permitted the failure of any
manager or employee on the premises to comply with the terms of this section or
with other law applicable to the business of operating an adult use, has
knowingly furnished false or misleading information on any application required
for any license under this section or has suffered or caused another to furnish
or withhold such information on his or her behalf, or has been convicted by a
court of competent jurisdiction of a violation of any provision of this
section.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.57  YARDS.
   No part of a yard or other open space, or off-street parking or loading
space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this chapter, shall be included as part of a yard, open space or
off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
   (A)   Yards, reduction in size. No yard or lot existing at the time of
passage of this chapter shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth herein. Yards and lots created after the effective date
of this chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by
this chapter.
   (B)   Additional yard requirements. The following yard requirements must be
observed in addition to the yard requirements of the various districts.
      (1)   Except in the “A” and “C” Districts, a corner lot must have a front
yard on both streets. Exception: All buildings located on lots adjacent to the
“R” District shall observe a yard requirement equivalent to the minimum yard
requirements of the “R” District on the side or sides adjacent.
      (2)   On through lots and reversed frontage lots, a front yard must be
provided on both streets.
      (3)   Required front yards shall be devoted entirely to landscaped area
except for the necessary paving or driveways and sidewalks to reach parking or
loading areas in the side or rear yard.
   (C)   Exceptions to yard requirements. The following exceptions may be made
to the yard requirements.
      (1)   Air conditioning units, sills, chimneys, cornices and ornamental
features may project into a required yard a distance not to exceed four inches.
      (2)   In commercial and industrial districts, filling station pumps and
pump islands may occupy required yards, provided, however, that they are not
less than 15 feet from all lot lines.
      (3)   Any accessory buildings closer than ten feet to a main building
shall be considered as part of the main building and shall be provided with the
same side and rest yard requirements as the main building.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.58  ERECTION OF MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE ON A LOT.
   In any district, only one structure housing a permitted or permissible
principle use may be erected on single lot, provided that yard and other
requirements are met.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.59  EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height limitations contained in §§
154.15 through
154.21 do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks,
ventilators, chimneys or other appurtenances usually required to be placed
above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.60  PRIVATE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS (SEPTIC TANKS).
   All existing septic tanks shall be considered nonconforming uses. All
structures used for human habitation, commercial and industrial use must be
connected to the city’s sanitary sewer system. All structures within 200 feet
of the city’s sanitary sewer system shall be connected to the city’s sanitary
sewer system at the landowner cost.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.61  MANUFACTURED HOME PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Modular homes. Modular homes shall meet the following regulations.
      (1)   Modular homes shall meet or exceed International Building Codes.
      (2)   Modular homes will include all off-site constructed homes, which
may be transported to the site in one or more sections.
      (3)   Modular homes shall have more than 1,000 square feet in ranch style
and 850 square feet split and be placed on a permanent foundation. The
foundation shall be to a depth below the frost line.
      (4)   Modular homes shall have a minimum of a 3/12 roof pitch.
      (5)   Modular homes shall have siding material of a type customarily used
on site-constructed residences.
      (6)   Modular homes shall have roofing material of a type customarily
used on site-constructed residences.
   (B)   Type I and Type II manufactured homes.
      (1)   Regulation. For the purpose of this chapter, manufactured homes
will be regulated by type. Two types of homes are defined under these
regulations.
         (a)   Type I manufactured home shall:
            1.   Have more than 1,100 square feet of occupied space in a double
section or larger multi section unit;
            2.   The running gear and hitch have been removed;
            3.   Has been anchored to a foundation and permanent footing;
            5.   The footing to be a minimum of eight inches thick by 16 inches
wide poured concrete with top of footing to be 16 inches below grade;
            6.   Prior to placement of a home on the foundation, it must be
inspected and approved by the Administrative Official;
            7.   Have a gabled roof with a pitch of at least 3/12 feet;
            8.   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences;
            9.   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences; and
            10.   The age of the manufactured house may not exceed ten years
from the date of manufacture.
         (b)   Type II manufactured home shall:
            1.   Have more than 700 square feet of occupied space in a single,
double, expando or multi-section unit;
            2.   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in this division (B)(2)(b);
            3.   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with manufacturer’s
specifications, or as prescribed by the TR-75, issued June 1972, by the U.S.
Department of Defense or by the ANTI/NFPA 501A Standards;
            4.   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences;
            5.   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences;
            6.   The age of the manufactured house may not exceed ten years
from the date of manufacture; and
            7.   Be placed onto a support system in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in this division (B)(2)(b).
      (2)   Installation standards.
         (a)   Permanent perimeter enclosure as required for Type I and II
manufactured homes. Those manufactured homes designated in this chapter, as
requiring a permanent perimeter enclosure must have footings and crawl space or
basement walls. The space between the floor joints of the home shall be
completely enclosed with the permanent perimeter enclosure (except for required
openings).
         (b)   Foundation siding/skirting. All manufactured homes without a
permanent perimeter enclosure shall have an approved foundation siding/skirting
enclosing the entire perimeter of the home.
         (c)   Support system.
            1.   All HUD-Code manufactured homes of the Type I classification
shall be installed with load-bearing foundations in conformance with the
manufacturer’s installation specifications.
            2.   Type II manufactured homes not placed on a permanent
foundation shall be installed on a support system in conformance with the
manufacturer’s installation specifications or with the support systems
regulations in the ANTI/NFPA 501A 1977 installation standards.
      (3)   Nonconforming homes. A manufactured home placed and maintained on a
tract of land and deemed to be a legal nonconforming use prior to the adoption
of this chapter shall continue to be a legal nonconforming use. If the
nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of one year, the land thereafter
must be used in conformity with all provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Replacement of nonconforming homes. See §
154.16(C)(6).
      (5)   Structural alteration. Due to its integral design, the
Administrative Official after it is placed on the site must approve any
structural, alteration or modification of a manufactured home.
      (6)   Variance from maximum age requirement. Type I and Type II
manufactured homes may receive a variance from the maximum age requirement
(divisions (B)(1)(a)10. and (B)(1)(b)6). The Board of Adjustment may grant a
variance if the applicant requesting the placement of the manufactured home
meets the following requirements.
         (a)   The applicant shall provide a photograph of the manufactured
home’s exterior and interior.
         (b)   It shall have been shown to the satisfaction of the Board of
Adjustment that the said manufactured home complies with the gas, plumbing,
electrical and construction requirements of the city.
         (c)   The applicant shall obtain and present to the Board of
Adjustment the written consent of 66% of the property owners owning property
immediately adjacent (excluding streets and alleys) to the proposed building
site.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.62  PERMANENT FOUNDATIONS REQUIRED FOR DWELLINGS.
   No dwelling shall be constructed, installed or moved into the area under the
jurisdiction of these regulations, unless said dwelling is constructed upon,
installed on or moved onto a permanent foundation, as defined in these
regulations. Exempted from this requirement are manufactured homes in an
approved manufactured home park, provided said manufactured homes are anchored
with tie downs to prevent the manufactured home from dangerous motion during
high wind or other weather related events.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.63  UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   No building or addition thereto shall be erected over or across any existing
public utility or upon any platted easement.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.64  MOVED IN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to move any house or other building onto any lot
or to any new location within the city unless and until a permit to do so has
been obtained from the Administrative Official.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued until the following requirements are met.
      (1)   The fee for said permit as prescribed in §
154.35(C) shall have been paid.
      (2)   It shall have been shown to the satisfaction of the Administrative
Official that the said house or other building complies with the gas, plumbing,
electrical and construction requirements of the city.
      (3)   The work is to be completed within 12 months after the permit has
been issued by the Administrative Official.
      (4)   The applicant shall also file with the City Finance Officer a
sufficient bond conditioned so that the applicant will indemnify the city and
any public utility for any damage done to any property, street, alley or public
grounds, and to insure that any site reclamation work is completed, said bond
to be in a minimum of $500.
      (5)   No building shall be moved other than during the period from
daylight to sundown.
      (6)   Before any permit is granted under this section, the applicant must
furnish proof that all taxes legally assessed against the property have been
paid. If a building or structure is to be moved onto any lot within the city,
the Administrative Official shall have the power to deny the granting of a
moving permit on the grounds that the intended use of the structure or location
thereof is contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Any building, which is not newly constructed to be used-for first
occupancy, shall also meet the following minimum requirements to obtain a
permit. The written consent of 66% of all property owners owning property
immediately adjacent (excluding streets and alleys) to the proposed building
site.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.65  MOVED OUT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to move any house or other building off of any
lot within the city unless and until a permit to do so has been obtained from
the Administrative Official.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued until the following requirements are met.
      (1)   The fee for said permit, as prescribed in §
154.35(C), shall have been paid.
      (2)   The work is to be completed within 12 months after the permit has
been issued by the Administrative Official.
      (3)   The applicant shall also file with the Finance Officer a sufficient
bond so that will indemnify the city and any public utility for any damage done
to any property, street, alley or public grounds, and to guarantee that the
building will be placed on an adequate foundation, will be attached to the
city’s electrical, water and sewer service where available, that the property
on which said building is to be located will be properly landscaped and seeded
in accordance with requirements of the Administrative Official, said bond to be
in a minimum of $500.
      (4)   No building shall be moved other than during the period from
daylight to sundown before any permit is granted under this section, the
applicant must furnish proof that all taxes legally assessed against the
property have been paid. If a building or structure is to be moved onto any lot
within the city, the Administrative Official shall have the power to deny the
granting of a moving permit on the grounds that the intended use of the
structure or location thereof is contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   When no replacement structure is to be moved in or constructed, the
applicant shall agree to restore the lot to a buildable condition. This may
include but is not limited to concrete basement removal, collapsing of the
basement walls, earthwork, landscaping and/or reseeding.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.66  REFUSE.
   In all zoning districts, refuse (rubbish, garbage, trash, waste or debris)
shall be kept within a complete enclosed building or specially designed closed
container made for such purpose. Owners of vacant lots shall be responsible for
keeping their property free of trash.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.67  CARETAKER/WATCHMAN’S QUARTERS.
   (A)   Caretaker/watchman’s quarters on parcels with an “C” or “I” zoning
designation shall require a conditional use permit.
   (B)   Caretaker or watchman’s living quarters shall be limited to not more
than one dwelling unit.
   (C)   The dwelling unit shall be occupied by person(s) associated with the
operation or maintenance of the business or building, if it is found that the
occupant(s) are not associated with such operation or maintenance the living
area shall be removed.
      (1)   The total area of the dwelling unit shall consist of not more than
20 to 30% of the total area of the building.
      (2)   The dwelling unit shall maintain an entrance other than that of the
business associated with the caretaker or watchman’s living quarters.
      (3)   Exceptions:
         (a)   If a single entrance enters into a common hallway or corridor in
which the business and dwelling unit are entered separately, the dwelling unit
may be allowed to use the same entrance as the business; and
         (b)   Entrance to the dwelling unit is accessible only by employees of
the business.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be treated in the manner specified below.
   (A)   Any person who starts work for which a permit (building, conditional
use, variance, rezoning) is required by this zoning ordinance, without first
securing such permit and paying the prescribed fee, shall be charged according
to the provisions of this section. All administrative fees assessed there under
shall be rounded to the nearest whole dollar.
      (1)   Upon finding such violation, the Administrative Official shall
notify the owner of property involved verbally or by sending a written
notification of the requirement that a permit be obtained to the owner of the
property involved by certified mail with return receipt requested. If
application for said permit is filed within seven working days from the verbal
notification or date of receipt of the letter, an administrative fee shall be
assessed in accordance with the following table:
 
                         Building Project Cost
                        $0 to $5,000 $5,001 to $50,000 Greater than $50,000
Administrative fee to be $20          $50               $100
assessed
In addition the above described fees an administrative fee in the amount of
100% of the fee for the conditional use permit, variance and/or rezoning
(where applicable) plus the cost of the postage for mailing the
aforementioned notice shall be assessed. In no case shall this
administrative fee be less than $5, including the postage costs.
 
      (2)   If application for said permit is filed after the original deadline
of seven working days following the verbal notice or receipt of the
notification of the requirement therefor, there shall be imposed an additional
administrative fee in the amount of 100% of the administrative fee described in
division (A)(1) above in addition to a fee in the amount of two times the fee
for the conditional use permit, variance and/or rezoning (where applicable)
plus the cost of the postage for mailing the aforementioned notice shall be
assessed. The payment of the administrative fee shall not relieve such person
from the provisions of division (B) below.
      (3)   Any administrative fee or penalty imposed under the provisions of
this zoning ordinance shall be in addition to any other fees or charges
required under this zoning ordinance.
   (B)   It is declared unlawful for the owner or any agent of a building or
premises in or upon which a violation of any provision of these regulations has
been committed or shall exist, or the lessee or tenant of an entire building or
entire premises in or upon which violation has been committed or shall exist,
or the agent, architect, building contractor or any other person who commits,
takes part or assists in any violation or who maintains any building or
premises in or upon which such violation shall exist to violate any of the
terms and provisions of these regulations or other official control adopted by
the City Council pursuant thereto. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any provision
of this zoning ordinance may be subject to a civil or criminal penalty. The
penalty for violation of this zoning ordinance shall be $500 or imprisonment
for not more than 30 days, or both, and in addition the violator shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case. Each and every day that such violation
continues after notification may constitute a separate offense. All fines for
violation shall be paid to the Finance Officer and shall be credited to the
General Fund of the city.
   (C)   In the event any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building or
structure or land is used in violation of this chapter or other regulation the
Administrative Official, or the city, as a corporation or any interested
person, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus or
any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use of
land, to restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of
said building or land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use
in and to and of such premises.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   AGREEMENTS; LAND USE CHANGES
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
9        -  -       Annexes Case’s Addition
10       -  -       Annexes Becker’s Addition
                    
 
TABLE II:  FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        -  -       Grants cable television franchise to Satellite Cable
                     Services, Inc.
-        -  -       Grants solid waste collection franchise to contractors
                     Ronald Lembke and Audrey Lembke
8        -  -       Grants telephone exchange franchise to Dakota Central
                     Telephone Lines, Inc.
27       -  -       Grants franchise to Standard Oil Company
100      -  -       Grants telephone and telegraph system franchise to
                     Northwestern Bell Telephone Company
127      -  -       Grants gas franchise to Northwestern Public Service
                     Company
172      -  -       Grants electric light and power franchise to Otter Tail
                     Power Company
164      3-2-1987    Grants solid waste franchise to Rollo D. Peterson
194      1-7-1993    Grants natural gas franchise to Northwestern Public
                     Service Company
211      4-10-2000   Grants antenna television system franchise to Satellite
                     Cable Services, Inc.
                    
 
   -   - -Grants cable television franchise to Satellite Cable Services, Inc.
   -   - -Grants solid waste collection franchise to contractors Ronald Lembke
and Audrey Lembke
TABLE III:  AGREEMENTS; LAND USE CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
163      3-2-1987    Closes the city garbage disposal site
-        10-5-1988   Agreement to purchase water from Kingbrook
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL References Code Section
SDCL References           Code Section
Chapters 3-1 through 3-24 32.02
1-26-30 through 1-26-37   31.05,
                          91.08
9-1-1                     10.02,
                          10.04
9-13-13                   10.04
9-13-16                   30.01
9-19-1                    10.04
9-19-3                    10.99,
                          90.999
9-29-12                   90.001
9-30-2                    153.07
                          33.02,
10-45                     33.05,
                          33.99
10-46                     33.03
10-52                     33.01,
                          33.04
10-52-9                   33.02
                          154.01,
Chapter 11-4              154.03,
                          154.37
Chapter 11-6              154.01
11-6-39                   154.16
Chapter 20-13             31.07,
                          91.10
21-10-5                   90.020
21-10-9                   90.020
22-6-2(2)                 10.99,
                          90.999
Chapter 32-36, § 1-10    50.20
40-1-2.3                  90.081
40-1-2.4                  90.082
40-12-4                   90.001
40-12-5                   90.043
40-12-6                   90.044
40-34-13                  90.020
40-34-14                  90.021
40-34-15                  90.020,
                          90.022
43-15A                    154.04
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
-        - -         TSO, Table II
-        - -         TSO, Table II
-        - -         31.01 -
                     31.08
-        - -         34.01 -
                     34.03
-        - -         50.16
                     70.01 -
-        - -         70.38,
                     70.99
                     72.01 -
-        - -         72.06,
                     72.99
-        - -         91.01 -
                     91.11
                     93.01 -
-        - -         93.03,
                     93.99
                     111.01,
-        - -         111.02,
                     111.99
-        - -         131.03
8        - -         TSO, Table II
9        - -         TSO, Table I
10       - -         TSO, Table I
27       - -         TSO, Table II
100      - -         TSO, Table II
127      - -         TSO, Table II
146      - -         30.01
                     150.07,
153      - -         150.08,
                     150.99
                     50.15 -
161      - -         50.21,
                     50.99
163      - -         50.01,
                     50.99
168      - -         30.01
172      - -         TSO, Table II
175      - -         90.004
204      - -         152.01 -
                     152.06
15       5-22-1905   95.01
                     30.02 -
                     30.08,
                     110.01 -
                     110.08,
                     110.99,         
                     111.15 -
                     111.21,
28       11-10-1914  111.99,
                     130.01 -
                     130.28,     
                     131.01,
                     131.02,
                     132.01 -
                     132.03,
                     150.01 -
                     150.06
163      3-2-1987    TSO, Table III
164      3-2-1987    TSO, Table II
-        10-5-1988   TSO, Table III
-        - -1989     112.01 -
                     112.06
173      8-7-1989    92.23,
                     92.99
175      10-2-1989   90.004,
                     90.999
187      7-8-1991    90.005,
                     90.999
194      1-7-1993    TSO, Table II
200      11-6-1995   51.01
201      11-6-1995   150.08
-        9-15-1999   32.01 -
                     32.10
211      4-10-2000   TSO, Table II
212      7-10-2000   92.15 -
                     92.22
215      7-8-2002    50.19
216      7-8-2002    153.01 -
                     153.07
                     92.35 -
219      10-7-2002   92.37,
                     92.99
220      8-4-2003    Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     72.20 -
235      6-4-2007    72.25,
                     72.99
240      - -2008     150.20 -
                     150.29
                     151.01 -
238      9-8-2008    151.05,
                     151.99
                     92.01 -
236      5-3-2010    92.03,
                     92.99
                     71.01,
287      5-3-2010    71.02,
                     71.03,
                     71.99
                     33.01 -
291      3-7-2011    33.05,
                     33.99
250      10-3-2011   111.03
254      7-9-2012    94.01,
                     94.02
                     154.01 -
                     154.04,
                     154.15 -
                     154.21,
-        7-7-2014    154.35 -
                     154.38,
                     154.50 -
                     154.67,
                     154.99
                    
 
