SPRINGFIELD, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through:
Ordinance No. 612, passed 2-15-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF SPRINGFIELD
Section
Preamble
Article I. Incorporation-Boundaries-Annexation-Form
   
1.0201   Incorporation
   
1.0202   Boundaries
   
1.0203   Annexation
   
1.0204   Form
Article II. Powers-Construction-Intergovernmental Relation
   
1.0205   Powers
   
1.0206   Construction
   
1.0207   Intergovernmental relations
Article III. Common Council
   
1.0208   Composition
   
1.0209   Qualifications
   
1.0210   Election and Terms
   
1.0211   Compensation, Expenses
   
1.0212   General Powers and Duties
   
1.0213   Prohibitions
   
1.0214   Vacancies; Forfeiture of Office; Filling of Vacancies
   
1.0215   Judge of Qualifications
   
1.0216   Finance Officer
   
1.0217   Investigations
   
1.0218   Independent Annual Audit
   
1.0219   Council Procedure
   
1.0220   Action Requiring an Ordinance
   
1.0221   Ordinances in General
   
1.0222   Emergency Ordinances
   
1.0223   Codes of Technical Regulations
   
1.0224   Authentication and Recording
Article IV. City Administration
   
1.0225   Mayor
   
1.0226   Powers and Duties of the Mayor
   
1.0227   Creation of Departments
   
1.0228   Administrative Policies
   
1.0229   Purchasing and Contracting
   
1.0230   City Attorney
Article V. Finance and Taxation
   
1.0231   Fiscal Year
   
1.0232   Submission of Proposed Annual Budget
   
1.0233   Council Action on the Budget
   
1.0234   Amendments After Budget Adoption
   
1.0235   Lapse of Appropriations
   
1.0236   Administration of Budget
   
1.0237   Ad Valorem Taxation Limitation
   
1.0237a   Special Tax Classification
   
1.0237b   Taxable Values
   
1.0238   Power to Incur Bonded Indebtedness
   
1.0239   Special Assessments
Article VI. Planning
   
1.0240   Boards and Commissions
   
1.0241   Comprehensive Development Plan
   
1.0242   Adoption of the Development Plan
   
1.0243   Implementation of the Development Plan
   
1.0244   Board of Adjustment; Establishment and Procedure
Article VII. Nominations and Elections
   
1.0245   City Elections
   
1.0246   Mayor and Aldermen
   
1.0247   Determination of Election Results
   
1.0248   Ballots for Initiated or Referred Ordinances and Charter Amendments
Article VIII. Initiative, Referendum, Recall
   
1.0249   Recall of Elected Officials
Article IX. General Provisions
   
1.0250   Performance Bonds
   
1.0251   Oath of Office
   
1.0252   Charter Amendment
   
1.0253   Separability
   
1.0254   Personal Financial Interest
   
1.0255   Prohibitions
Article X. Transitional Provisions
   
1.0256   Officers and Employees
   
1.0257   Departments, Offices and Agencies
   
1.0258   Pending Matters
   
1.0259   State and Municipal Laws
   
1.0260   Governmental Immunity
   
1.0261   Schedule
   
1.0262   Effective Date of Charter
PREAMBLE
We, the people of Springfield, in the county of Bon Homme and the State of
South Dakota, in order to secure for ourselves the benefits of municipal home
rule and to exercise all the powers of local self-government under the
Constitution and the laws of the State of South Dakota, pursuant to the
provisions of Article IX of the Constitution of the State of South Dakota and
as defined by Chapter 6-12 South Dakota Compiled Laws do hereby adopt this
Charter for the City of Springfield.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION-BOUNDARIES-ANNEXATION-FORM
§ 1.0201 INCORPORATION.
   The inhabitants of the City of Springfield within the corporate limits as
defined in Section 102 of this Charter or subsequently altered by annexation
shall be know as the “City of Springfield” and continue to be a municipal body
politic and corporate in perpetuity.
§ 1.0202 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the City of Springfield are hereby established and
declared to be those that exist at the time of the adoption of this Charter and
as annexed subsequently.
§ 1.0203 ANNEXATION.
   The Common Council of the City of Springfield shall have the power to annex
any territory contiguous to the City of Springfield provided, however, that
said annexation shall be in accordance with State Law.
§ 1.0204 FORM.
   The form of government established by this Charter shall be the “Mayor-
Alderman Form”.
ARTICLE II. POWERS-CONSTRUCTION-INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATION
§ 1.0205 POWERS.
   The city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the
Constitution and laws of the State of South Dakota as fully and completely as
though they were specifically enumerated in this Charter. This Charter shall
grant the city all rights and powers not specifically addressed, allowed, and/
or prohibited by the State Statutes.
§ 1.0206 CONSTRUCTION.
   The powers of the city under this charter shall be construed liberally in
favor of the city, and the specific mention of particular powers in the Charter
shall not be construed as limiting in any way whatsoever the general power
stated in this article. Unless granted by this Charter to some other officer of
body, all powers shall be vested in the Common Council.
§ 1.0207 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS.
   The city may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions and
may participate in the financing thereof, jointly or in cooperation, by
contract or otherwise, with any one or more states, civil divisions, or public
agencies thereof or the United States of any agency thereof.
ARTICLE III. COMMON COUNCIL
§ 1.0208 COMPOSITION.
   There shall be a Common Council of six aldermen elected by the qualified
voters of the city by wards, and a Mayor elected at large on a nonpolitical
ballot. There shall be two aldermen from and representing each one of the three
wards.
§ 1.0209 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Every qualified voter of the city shall be eligible to be a member of the
Common Council. Qualified voters shall be as determined by relevant State laws
pertaining to general elections.
§ 1.0210 ELECTION AND TERMS.
   The regular election of members of the Common Council shall be held on the
second Tuesday of April in each year or as provided by State law.
   The present members of the Common Council in office at the effective date of
this Charter shall continue to hold office until the expiration of terms to
which they were elected. Commencing at the first annual municipal election
under this Charter and at all subsequent annual municipal elections, three
members of the majority number of votes shall serve a two-year term. Commencing
at the second annual election under this Charter and at two-year intervals
thereafter there shall be elected a Mayor who shall serve a two-year term. All
council terms shall commence at the first regular council meeting in the month
following the annual city election.
§ 1.0211 COMPENSATION, EXPENSES.
   The Common Council may determine the compensation for the mayor and aldermen
by resolution or ordinance. Members of the Common Council shall receive their
actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of
office.
§ 1.0212 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   All powers of the city shall be vested in the Common Council, except as
otherwise provided by this Charter, and the Common Council shall provide for
the exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and obligations
imposed on the city by law.
§ 1.0213 PROHIBITIONS.
   Holding other Office: No member of the Common Council shall hold any other
city or appointive office, or other city employment, for additional
compensation as referred to in Section 1.0211, during the term for which he was
elected to the Common Council. This section, however, does not apply to
employees of an educational institution that may be acquired by the city, any
other subsidiary enterprise acquired by the city that is not directly related
to the specific functions of municipal government per se, nor any employment in
an enterprise acquired or sponsored by the city through industrial revenue
bonding arrangements. This section shall not apply to members of the Common
Council as it relates to committee appointments related to the functions and
operations of the municipal government; nor shall it apply to officers or
members of the volunteer fire department.
§ 1.0214 VACANCIES; FORFEITURE OF OFFICE; FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   (a)   Vacancies: A member of the Common Council shall vacate his office upon
his death, resignation or removal from office in any manner authorized by State
law or forfeiture of his office.
   (b)   Forfeiture of Office: A member of the Common Council shall forfeit his
office if He: (1) lacks any qualification at any time during his term of office
for the office prescribed by this Charter or by State law, (2) violates any
express prohibition of this charter, (3) is convicted of a felony, (4) fails to
attend three consecutive regular meetings of the Common Council without being
excused by the Council, or (5) loses residence in the ward from which he was
elected.
   (c)   Filling of Vacancies: In case of a vacancy for any cause in the
position of member of the Common Council, the Mayor with the approval of the
Common Council shall appoint a qualified person to fill the vacancy until the
next regular election of the City of Springfield, at which time, the vacancy
shall be filled by election for the unexpired term, if any. In the case of a
vacancy for any cause in the position of Mayor, the Common Council shall, by
majority vote of its full number, appoint a member of the Common Council to
fulfill the unexpired term. Despite the quorum provisions hereof, if at any
time the membership of the Common Council is reduced to less than four, the
remaining members may, by majority action, appoint additional members to raise
the Common Council membership to six aldermen and one mayor.
§ 1.0215 JUDGE OF QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Common Council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of
its members and of the grounds forfeiture of their office and for that purpose
shall have power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and require the
production of evidence. A member charged with conduct constituting grounds for
forfeiture of his office shall be entitled to a public hearing on demand and
notice of such hearing shall be published in one or more local newspapers of
general circulation in the city at least one week in advance of such hearing.
Decisions made by the Common Council under this section shall be subject to
review by the proper judicial authority.
§ 1.0216 FINANCE OFFICER.
   There shall be an officer of the city who shall have the title of Finance
Officer. The Finance Officer shall have all powers and responsibilities granted
to the office by South Dakota law and may be assigned such other powers and
duties as deemed appropriate by the Common Council.
§ 1.0217 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Common Council may make investigations into the affairs of the city and
the conduct of any city department, office, or agency and for this purpose may
subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the
production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order
issued in the exercise of these powers by the Common Council shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine or imprisonment or both within the
limits established by State law.
§ 1.0218 INDEPENDENT ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The Common Council shall provide for an independent periodic audit of all
city accounts at intervals as it deems necessary and in compliance with State
law. Such audits may be performed by the appropriate State agency in charge of
such work or by certified public accountants selected by the Common Council.
Such certified public accounts shall have no personal interest, direct or
indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the city government.
§ 1.0219 COUNCIL PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Meetings: The Common Council shall meet regularly at least once in
every month at such times and places as the Common Council may prescribe.
Special meetings may be held on the call of the mayor or of three or more of
its members. The matters contained in the notice of call for special meetings
should, whenever practical, be the only matters discussed at a special meeting.
If it is deemed to discuss other matters to serve the purposes of practicality,
to eliminate the expense incurred for an additional special meeting, or to meet
demands for urgency, this limitation for special meetings shall not apply.
However, any matter not contained in the notice of call for the special meeting
must be, prior to council discussion or consideration, approved as an addition
to the meeting agenda by a majority vote of members present. All meetings shall
be public. However, the Common Council may recess for the purpose of discussing
in a closed or executive session limited to its own membership any matter which
would tend to defame or prejudice the character or reputation of any person,
for personnel matters, for discussing litigation matters or for any matter
pertaining to the purchase of property, provided the general subject matter for
consideration shall be expressed in the motion calling for such session and
that final action thereon shall not be taken by the Common Council until they
reconvene in public session.
   The common Council shall hold an organizational meeting at the first regular
meeting in the first month following the annual city election. At such
organizational meeting, newly elected members of the Common Council shall be
sworn in and a president and vice-president elected. Committee assignments and
responsibilities and special appointments shall be made at such organizational
meeting. The president shall be Acting Mayor in the event of the absence or
temporary disability of the Mayor.
   (b)   Rules and Journal: The Common Council shall determine its own rules
and order of business and shall provide for keeping a journal of its
proceedings. This journal shall be a public record and published as required by
State law.
   (c)   Voting: Voting, except on procedural motions and matters of routine
business, shall be by roll call and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the
journal. Four members of the Common Council shall constitute a quorum, but a
small number may adjourn from time to time and may compel the attendance of
absent members in the manner and subject to the penalties prescribed by the
rules of the Common Council. All actions of the Common Council shall be valid
and binding when adopted by a majority of the quorum present at that meeting
except as otherwise provided for in this Charter.
§ 1.0220 ACTION REQUIRING AN ORDINANCE.
   In addition to other acts required by specific provision of this Charter to
be done by ordinance, those acts of the Common Council shall be by ordinance
which:
   (a)   Provide for a fine or penalty or establish a rule or regulation for
violation of which a fine or other penalty is imposed;
   (b)   Levy taxes;
   (c)   Grant, renew, or extend a franchise;
   (d)   Regulate the rate charge for services by a public utility;
   (e)   Authorize the borrowing of money;
   (f)   Are provided for by State law;
   (g)   Other discretionary matters at the option of the Common Council and
not in violation of State law.
   Acts other than those referred to in the preceding sentence may be
accomplished either by motion, ordinance or by resolution. No ordinance of the
Common Council shall be binding or valid unless adopted by the affirmative vote
of the majority of the members present.
§ 1.0221 ORDINANCES IN GENERAL.
   (a)   Form: Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in
the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain more than one
subject which shall be clearly expressed in its title. The style of all
ordinances shall be as follows: “An Ordinance (inserting the title)” followed
by: “Be it Ordained by the City of Springfield,” followed by the substance of
the ordinance.
   (b)   Procedure: An ordinance may be introduced by any member of the
Council, except as otherwise provided by this Charter ordinance, all procedural
matters relating to ordinances shall be in conformity with State law.
   (c)   Publishing Municipal Ordinances: Ordinances shall be published in the
manner provided by State law except that lengthy exhibits need not be
published, but shall be referred to by reference.
§ 1.0222 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   To meet a public emergency affecting the life, health, property, or the
public peace or welfare, the Common Council may adopt one or more emergency
ordinances, but such ordinances may not levy taxes; grant, renew or extend a
franchise; regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services; or
authorize the borrowing of money, except as provided in this Charter. An
emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner prescribed for
ordinances generally, except that it shall be designated plainly as an
emergency ordinance and shall contain after the enacting clause a declaration
stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms
An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at
the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of the majority
of members present shall be required for adoption. After its adoption, the
ordinance shall be published and printed as prescribed for other ordinances. It
shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify.
§ 1.0223 CODES OF TECHNICAL REGULATIONS.
   The Common Council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by
reference thereto in the adopting ordinance. The procedure governing such an
adopting ordinance shall be the same as prescribed for ordinances generally,
except that a copy of the technical regulations need not be published in the
same manner as the adopting ordinance, provided that a copy of the technical
regulations is available for review by the general public.
§ 1.0224 AUTHENTICATION AND RECORDING.
   The Finance Officer shall authenticate by his signature and record in full
all ordinances and resolutions adopted by the Common Council.
ARTICLE IV. CITY ADMINISTRATION
§ 1.0225 MAYOR.
   There shall be an officer of the city, entitled the Mayor, who shall be the
chief executive and administrative officer of the city and who shall be
responsible to the Common Council for the administration of all city affairs
placed in his charge by this Charter.
§ 1.0226 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of the
city. He shall be responsible to the Common Council for the administration of
all city affairs placed in his charge by or under this Charter by the Common
Council, or by State law.
   (a)   He shall appoint, with the approval of the Common Council, and, when
he deems it necessary, suspend or remove any one or all city employees and
appointive administrative officers provided for by, or under, this Charter. He
may authorize any administrative officer who is subject to his direction and
supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that
officer’s department, office or agency. He shall appoint any standing
committees, boards, or commissions as deemed necessary by the Common Council;
such appointments shall be made with approval of the Common Council.
   (b)   He shall direct and supervise the administration of all department
officers and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by law.
   (c)   He shall serve as the principal advisor to the Common Council on all
matters requiring the Council’s attention; he shall have the right to attend
all Council meetings and shall have the right to take part in all discussions,
but shall have no vote except in case of a tie.
   (d)   He shall see that all laws, provisions of this Charter, and acts of
the Common Council, subject to enforcement by him or by officers subject to his
direction and supervision, are faithfully executed.
   (e)   He shall have the Finance Officer, under his direction and control,
prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the Common Council.
   (f)   He shall have the Finance Officer submit to the Common Council a
completed report on the finances of the city at the end of each fiscal year.
   (g)   He shall, through the Finance Officer, keep the Common Council fully
advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city and make
such recommendations to the Common Council concerning the affairs of the city
as he deems proper or as the Common Council shall require.
   (h)   He shall make such other reports as the Common Council may require
concerning the operations of city government subject to his direction and
supervision.
   (i)   He shall execute on behalf of the city when authorized by the Common
Council all agreements, contracts, bonds, deeds and other documents necessary
to be executed. He shall countersign all orders, checks and warrants authorized
by the Common Council and drawn on the city treasury for payment on monies,
which signature may be by facsimile.
   (j)   He shall have the power to sign or veto any motion, ordinance or
resolution passed by the Common Council and the power to veto any part or item
of an ordinance or resolution, it shall be presented by the Finance Officer
with the Mayor’s written objection to the next meeting of the Common Council
and may be reconsidered. If it shall pass by a two-thirds vote of the aldermen
present, it shall be published and become effective not withstanding the
Mayor’s disapproval.
   (k)   He shall perform such other duties as are specified in this Charter as
may lawfully be required by the Common Council, or as may be required by State
law.
§ 1.0227 CREATION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   The Common Council may establish city departments, offices or agencies in
addition to those created by this Charter and may prescribe the functions of
all departments, offices and agencies provided; however, that there shall be no
more than ten department, offices and agencies each of which will be headed by
or under the direction or supervision of a single executive who is appointed by
and removed by and directly responsible to the Mayor. Committees and boards
appointed and selected by the Common Council shall not be included in the above
numerical limitations. Those boards and commissions of the city in existence as
of the date of the adoption of this Charter shall continue in existence and
retain the responsibilities and authority granted to them unless the Common
Council by ordinance changes the responsibilities or authority of the boards or
commissions.
§ 1.0228 ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES.
   It shall be the policy of the city to recruit, select, and advance employees
on the basis of merit and fitness and without discrimination against any
employee or applicant for employment because of race, national origin, creed,
color, religion, sex or any other non-merit factor.
§ 1.0229 PURCHASING AND CONTRACTING.
   The Mayor may, subject to any regulations which the Common Council may
prescribe and within the amounts of the budget appropriations, make purchases
and enter into contracts on behalf of the city. Every such contract and
purchase exceeding an amount to be established by the Common Council shall
require the prior approval of the Common Council. The Mayor may transfer to or
between the departments, offices and agencies, or sell surplus or obsolete
supplies, materials, and equipment, subject to such regulations as the Common
Council may prescribe. The city shall have the power to require all bidders to
post bonds to secure the performance of any contract and all claims for labor
and material used in the work. The city shall have the power to reject any
supplies, as well as any other public work, and buy supplies on the open market
at a price less than the lowest bid received, or if no bids are received, it
may direct the purchase of supplies in the open market.
§ 1.0230 CITY ATTORNEY.
   There shall be an officer of the city entitled City Attorney. The Common
Council shall appoint the City Attorney, who must be licensed to practice law
in South Dakota, for an indefinite term and fix his compensation. The City
Attorney shall be the chief legal advisor to the Common Council, Mayor and all
city departments, offices and agencies and shall represent the city in all
legal proceedings and shall perform such other duties as prescribed by this
Charter, the Common Council or the Mayor.
   The City Attorney may appoint such Deputy City Attorneys as he deems
advisable and may secure additional legal services as he may deem necessary
subject to approval by the Common Council.
ARTICLE V. FINANCE AND TAXATION
§ 1.0231 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of January and end
on the last day of December or as otherwise determined by State law.
§ 1.0232 SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The Finance Officer under the direction and control of the Mayor, shall
submit annually on the date specified by the Common Council a proposed annual
budget. Said proposed annual budget shall provide for a complete financial plan
for all city funds, activities, programs, departments, offices and agencies for
the ensuing fiscal year and shall be in such form as the Mayor deems desirable
or the Council may require. The total of proposed expenditures shall not exceed
the total of estimated income.
§ 1.0233 COUNCIL ACTION ON THE BUDGET.
   The Common Council shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city, a general summary of the budget as required by State
law. The Common Council may adopt the budget with or without amendment. The
Common Council may insert new items of expenditure or may increase, decrease or
strike out items of expenditure, except that no item of appropriation for debt
service shall be reduced. The budget and the annual appropriation ordinance for
the ensuing fiscal year shall be adopted and implemented by the Common Council
in the manner established by State law.
§ 1.0234 AMENDMENTS AFTER BUDGET ADOPTION.
   (a)   Supplemental Appropriations: If during the fiscal year, the Finance
Officer certifies that there are available for appropriation revenues in excess
of those estimated in the budget, the Common Council by ordinance may make
supplemental appropriations up to the amount of such excess.
   (b)   Emergency Appropriations: To meet a public emergency affecting life,
health, property or the public peace or welfare, the Common Council may make
emergency appropriations. Such appropriations may be made by emergency
ordinance in accordance with the provisions of § 1.0222. To the extent that
there are no available unappropriated revenues to meet such appropriations, the
Common Council may by such emergency appropriation authorize the borrowing of
funds for such emergency in the manner provided by State law.
   (c)   Transfer of Appropriations: At any time during the fiscal year, the
Common Council may transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation
balance between programs within a department, office or agency, and the Common
Council may transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance from
one department, office or agency to another provided, however, that no
appropriation for debt service may be reduced or transferred.
§ 1.0235 LAPSE OF APPROPRIATIONS.
   Every appropriation shall lapse at the close of the fiscal year to the
extent that it has not been expended or encumbered. However, an appropriation
for a capital expenditure shall continue in force until the purpose for which
it was made has been accomplished or abandoned.
§ 1.0236 ADMINISTRATION OF BUDGET.
   The Mayor shall be responsible to the Common Council for the administration
and implementation of the adopted budget within the budgetary limits contained
within the budget.
§ 1.0237 AD VALOREM TAXATION LIMITATION.
   The Common Council shall have the power to impose any non-ad valorem tax by
ordinance adopted by a majority vote of its members present. “Non-ad valorem
tax” shall mean any tax other than an ad valorem personal or real property tax.
§ 1.0237a SPECIAL TAX CLASSIFICATION.
   The City of Springfield in Bon Homme County, South Dakota, will work closely
with any person or organization seeking to establish industrial, commercial, or
commercial residential development which benefits the City of Springfield.
Springfield will aid any such person or organization to help accomplish that
person’s or organization’s objectives. This Section grants a special tax
classification to all new industrial, commercial, or commercial residential
structures, or structure additions, which have an assessed value of thirty
thousand dollars ($30,000) or more.
   In order for the classification to take effect, such structures must be
located within three (3) miles of Springfield’s corporate limits, or within
city limits itself. A commercial residential structure shall contain four or
more units to qualify for special tax classification. New agricultural
structures, or additions to existing agricultural structures are not included
for special tax classification
(Ord. 432, passed 6-4-1997)
Authority: SDCL 9-12-2. SDCL Ch. 10-6 (1996).
§ 1.0237b TAXABLE VALUES.
   Pursuant to the statement made in Springfield Ordinance 432, Chapter 1.02,
Section 1.0237(a), the following formula for taxable values are:
   (a)   Twenty percent (20%) of the assessed property value for the first year
following construction of such property; and
   (b)   Forty percent (40%) of the assessed property value for the second year
following construction on such property;
   (c)   Sixty percent (60%) of the assessed property value for the third year
following construction on such property;
   (d)   Eighty percent (80%) of the assessed property value for the fourth
year following construction of such property.
   (e)   One hundred percent (100%) of the assessed property value for the
fifth year following construction of such property.
(Ord. 432, passed 6-4-1997)
§ 1.0238 POWER TO INCUR BONDED INDEBTEDNESS.
   The city may incur indebtedness by issuing its negotiable bonds and notes in
anticipation of bonds to finance, in whole or in part, any permanent municipal
improvement in accordance with procedural and referendum requirements of State
law. The total outstanding debt of the city shall not exceed the limitations
established by the State Constitution and State laws for cities of the same
class as Springfield. Tax levies required to repay principal and interest on
general obligation bonds shall not be included within any ad valorem tax
limitations.
§ 1.0239 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Common Council shall have the authority and power to levy and collect
special assessments upon property for special benefits incurring to such
property as a consequence of any municipal public work, service or improvement,
and to provide for the payment of all or any part of the cost of the work,
service or improvement out of the proceeds of such special assessments.
ARTICLE VI. PLANNING
§ 1.0240 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   The Common Council may appoint planning boards and commissions as deemed
necessary. The powers, duties and scope of activity of such boards and/or
commissions shall have no authority to employ persons, disburse monies, make
contracts or exercise administrative authority in any manner, but all such
employees engaged in planning matters and all disbursements, contracts, and
administrative duties shall be under the supervision of the Mayor.
§ 1.0241 COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The Common Council may adopt and may from time to time modify a
comprehensive development plan setting forth in graphic and textual form
policies to govern the future development of the city. Such plan may cover the
entire city and such adjacent area as permitted by State law and all of its
functions and services, or may consist of a combination of plans governing
specific functions and services or specific geographic area.
§ 1.0242 ADOPTION OF THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The Common Council shall have the authority to adopt at its discretion, the
development plan or amendments thereto. The Council shall hold public hearings
on the proposed amendments to the comprehensive plan and may adopt such
amendments by ordinance. The comprehensive development plan shall serve as a
guide to all future Council action concerning land use and development
regulations, urban renewal programs, and expenditures for capital improvements.
§ 1.0243 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The Common Council may by ordinance adopt land use and development
regulations, including, but not limited to zoning and subdivision regulations
to implement the development plan. Before acting on any proposed ordinance
concerning land use and development regulations, urban renewal or expenditures
for capital improvements, where such ordinance refers to matters covered by the
comprehensive development plan, the Common Council shall refer the proposal to
the City Planning Commissions which shall, within a period specified by the
Common Council and prior to the public hearing on the proposed ordinance,
report its recommendations.
§ 1.0244 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; ESTABLISHMENT AND PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Establishment: The Common Council shall act as and perform all the
duties and exercise the power as a Board of Adjustment. The Mayor shall be
Chairman of the Board of Adjustment as so composed. The concurring vote of at
least two-thirds of the members of the board as so composed shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the appellant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under any zoning ordinance or to effect any
variation in such ordinance.
   (b)   Procedure: The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the
conduct of its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this ordinance.
Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at such other times as
the Board may determine. The Chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall
be open to the public.
ARTICLE VII. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
§ 1.0245 CITY ELECTIONS.
   (a)   Regular Elections: The regular annual city election shall be held on
the second Tuesday of April in each year or as required by State law.
   (b)   Qualified Voters: All citizens qualified by the Constitution and laws
of the State of South Dakota to vote in the city and who satisfy the
requirements for registration prescribed by such laws shall be qualified voters
of the city within the meaning of this charter.
   (c)   Conduct of Elections: Except as otherwise provided by this Charter of
by ordinance, the provisions of the general election laws of the State of South
Dakota shall apply to elections held under this Charter.
§ 1.0246 MAYOR AND ALDERMEN.
   Nominations for Mayor and Aldermen shall be by petition and there shall be
no party designation on any such petition of any candidate or on any ballot in
any municipal election. Each nominating petition shall be signed by the
candidate. In electing a Mayor at large, the petition shall be signed by
fifteen voters for each thousand or major fraction thereof of the population as
shown by the last census. No petition need be signed by more than fifty voters.
If the candidate is to be voted on by ward, the petition shall be signed by at
least five per cent of the voters of the ward. This percentage shall be based
on the whole number of voters voting in the ward at the last annual election.
Qualified voters as used in this section shall mean voters who are qualified to
vote in the election for which said petitions were filed. The nominating
petition of each candidate shall be filed at the office of the Finance Officer
during normal business hours or as provided by State law or by ordinance.
§ 1.0247 DETERMINATION OF ELECTION RESULTS.
   (a)   Number of Votes: Every voter shall be entitled to vote for one
candidate for Mayor and for as many candidates for Alderman as there are
Aldermen to be elected from the ward in which the voter resides.
   (b)   Determination of Elected Officials: The candidates shall be elected by
majority vote as required by State law.
§ 1.0248 BALLOTS FOR INITIATED OR REFERRED ORDINANCES AND CHARTER AMENDMENTS.
   An ordinance, resolution or action of the Council which is subject to the
initiative and referendum procedures or a Charter amendment shall be presented
by its title for voting by ballot. In all respects, Charter amendments shall
follow the procedures required by State law for the initiative or referendum,
or as may be provided by this Charter.
ARTICLE VIII. INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM, RECALL
§ 1.0249 RECALL OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   There are hereby reserved to the electors of the city powers of initiative,
referendum and recall of elected officials. The provisions of the Constitution
and laws of the State of South Dakota governing the initiative, referendum and
recall of elected officials shall apply to the use thereof in the city.
ARTICLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1.0250 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Mayor, Finance Officer, and such other officers and employees of the
city as the Common Council may require, shall give bonds for the faithful
performance of their duties in such amounts and with such surety as may be
required by the Common Council. The premiums on such bonds shall be paid by the
city.
§ 1.0251 OATH OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor, every Alderman, the Finance Officer, City Attorney and such other
officers or employees as the Common Council may by ordinance require, shall,
before entering upon the duties of their office, take and subscribe to the
following oath or affirmation, to be filed and kept in the office of the
Finance Officer.
   “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States and the Constitution of the State of South Dakota and the Charter
of the City of Springfield, and that I will faithfully and impartially
discharge the duties of the office of ... according to the best of my ability.”
   The Mayor, City Attorney, and Finance Officer shall have the power to
administer oaths required by this Charter.
§ 1.0252 CHARTER AMENDMENT.
   Amendments to this Charter may be framed and proposed: (1) by ordinance of
the Common Council containing the full text of the proposed amendment or (2) by
voters of the city.
   Proposals for an amendment by the voters of the city shall be by petition
containing the full text of the proposed amendment and shall be governed by the
same procedures and requirements prescribed in this Charter for initiative
petitions except that said petition shall be signed by ten percent of the
qualified voters of the city; said percentage shall be based on the total
number of votes cast for Governor at the most recent election. The election
upon the proposed Charter amendment, regardless of method of proposal, shall be
voted upon in the same manner provided by this Charter for initiative
elections. If a majority of the qualified vote is in favor of it, the amendment
shall be declared approved by the voters. All amendments to this Charter shall
become effective at the first regular Common Council meeting following the
annual municipal election unless otherwise provided therein. No Charter
amendment that is rejected by a vote of the people may be referred again to a
vote of the people until a period of one year has elapsed.
§ 1.0253 SEPARABILITY.
   If any provision of this Charter is held to be invalid, the other provisions
of the Charter shall not be affected thereby. If the application of this
Charter or any of its provisions to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
the application of the Charter and its provisions to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1.0254 PERSONAL FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   Any city officer or employee who has a substantial financial interest,
either direct or indirect in any contract with the city or in the sale of any
land, material, supplies or services to the city or to a contractor supplying
the city shall make known that interest and shall refrain from voting upon or
otherwise participating in his capacity as a city officer or employee in the
making of such sale or in the making or performance of such contract. Any city
officer or employee who willfully conceals such a substantial financial
interest or willfully violates the requirements of this section shall be guilty
of malfeasance in office or position and shall forfeit his office or position.
Violation of this section with the knowledge expressed or implied of the person
or corporation contracting with or making a sale to the city shall render the
contract or sale voidable by the Common Council.
§ 1.0255 PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No person shall be appointed to or removed from, or in any way favored
or discriminated against with respect to any city position or appointive city
administrative office because of race, creed, color, sex, national origin or
political or religious opinions or affiliations, or any other factors in civil
rights legislation.
   (b)   No person shall willfully make any false statement, certificate, mark,
rating or report in regard to any test, certification or appointment under the
personnel provisions of this Charter or the rules and regulations made
thereunder, or in any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing
the impartial execution of such provisions, rules, and regulations.
   (c)   No person who seeks appointment or promotion with respect to any city
position or appointive city administrative office shall directly or indirectly
give, render or pay any money service or other valuable thin to any person for
or in connection with his test, appointment, proposed appointment, promotion or
proposed promotion.
   (d)   No person who holds any compensated appointive city position shall
make, solicit or receive any contribution to the campaign funds of any
candidate for city office to take any part in the management, affairs or
political campaign of any candidate for city office, but he may exercise his
rights as a citizen to express his opinions and to cast his vote.
   (e)   Any person who by himself or with others willfully violates any of the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be punishable in the manner otherwise provided by this Charter,
or as provided by State law. In addition, any person convicted under this
section shall be ineligible for a period of five years thereafter to hold any
city office or position and, if an officer or employee of the city, shall
immediately forfeit his office or position.
   (f)   The city may acquire by purchase, gift, condemnation or otherwise any
property either within or without its boundaries that may be needed by the city
for any public purpose. In acquiring property by exercise of the power of
eminent domain, the city shall proceed according to State law.
   (g)   The city may provide for punishment by fine or imprisonment or both
within the limits allowed by State law for violations of this Charter or any
ordinance adopted by the Common Council.
ARTICLE X. TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
§ 1.0256 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   Rights and Privileges Preserved: Nothing in this Charter except as
otherwise specifically provided shall affect or impair the rights or privileges
of persons who are city officers or employees at the time of its adoption.
   (b)   Continuance of Office or Employment: Except as specifically provided
by this Charter, if at the time this Charter takes full effect, a city
administrative officer or employee holds any office or position which is or can
be abolished by or under this Charter he shall continue in such office or
position until the taking effect of some specific provision under this Charter
directly that he vacate the office or position.
   (c)   Personnel System: An employee holding a city position at the time this
Charter takes full effect who was serving at that time or a comparable position
at the time of its adoption, shall not be subject to competitive tests as a
condition of continuance in the same position, but in all other respects shall
be subject to the personnel system provided for by the Common Council.
§ 1.0257 DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES AND AGENCIES.
   (a)   Transfer of Powers: If a city department, office or agency is
abolished by this Charter, the powers and duties given it by law shall be
transferred to the city department, office or agency designated in this Charter
or, if the Charter makes no provision, designated by the Common Council.
   (b)   Property and Records: All property, records and equipment of any
department, office or agency existing when this Charter is adopted shall be
transferred to the department, office or agency assuming its powers and duties,
but in the event that the powers or duties are to be discontinued or divided
between units or in the event that any conflict arises regarding a transfer,
such property, records or equipment shall be transferred to one or more
departments, offices or agencies designated by the Common Council in accordance
with this Charter.
§ 1.0258 PENDING MATTERS.
   All rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative
proceedings shall continue except as modified pursuant to the provisions of
this Charter and in each case shall be maintained, carried on or dealt with by
the city department, office or agency appropriate under this Charter.
§ 1.0259 STATE AND MUNICIPAL LAWS.
   All city ordinances, resolutions, orders and regulations which are in force
when this Charter becomes fully effective are repealed only to the extent that
they are inconsistent or interfere with the effective operation of this Charter
or of ordinances or resolutions adopted thereto.
   To the extent that the Charter, Constitution, and laws of the State of South
Dakota permit, all laws relating to or affecting this city or its agencies,
offices or employees which are in force when this Charter becomes fully
effective are superseded only to the extent that they are inconsistent or
interfere with the effective operation of this Charter or of ordinances or
resolutions adopted pursuant thereto.
§ 1.0260 GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY.
   The city expressly retains its right of governmental immunity from suit and
liability as proved for in Section 27, Article III of the Constitution of South
Dakota or in any other part of the Constitution or the State law, and noting in
the implementation of this Charter shall be construed as any waiver, forfeiture
or disclaimer of any right of governmental immunity from suit and liability.
§ 1.0261 SCHEDULE.
   The first election under this charter shall be held on the second Tuesday in
April, 1985, and in the manner provided by this Charter. The first Common
Council meeting for members of the Common Council elected under this Charter
shall be held at the first regular Common Council meeting in May following the
annual municipal election in April, 1985.
§ 1.0262 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER.
   If the majority of votes cast on the question of adoption of this Charter
shall be in the affirmative, this Charter shall take effect immediately after
certification of the re results of said election provided, however, that
members of the present Common Council shall continue in their offices until new
members are elected and seated as provided in this Charter and that all members
of the present boards and commissions shall continue in their capacities until
the Common Council meets and implements the provisions of this Charter.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend, or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of an ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Springfield City
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” or “codified ordinances” may
be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, etc., see SDCL §
9-1-1
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city of Springfield, South Dakota.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNTY. Bon Homme County, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Trustees, the Board of Commissioners, or the
Common Council, as the case may be, of a municipality concerned or affected.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. All cities and towns organized under
the laws of this state but shall not include any other political subdivisions.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the register of deeds of the county or counties in which the municipality is
located, or his or her heirs or successors.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   PUBLICATION.
      (1)   Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13.
      (2)   Personal service either within or without the state upon the person
affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to be published
shall be equivalent to the required publication.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   RESOLUTION. Any determination that, decision, or direction of the governing
body of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating, effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STREET. STREET includes AVENUE.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND, OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS;
GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize
highway rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the
acceptance, establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not
been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Municipalities are authorized to provide for the punishment of each
violation of an ordinance, resolution, or regulation with a fine not to exceed
$500 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 22-6-2(2)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City limits, ward, and precinct boundaries
   
11.02   Wards
§ 11.01 CITY LIMITS, WARD, AND PRECINCT BOUNDARIES.
   The city shall include all territory embraced within the original town site
of Springfield and all adjacent territory that may have been heretofor or shall
hereafter be legally annexed thereto.
(Prior Code, § 2.0102)
§ 11.02 WARDS.
   The city is hereby divided into three wards to be known and designated as
follows.
   (A)   First Ward. The part of the city which extends from the northern city
limits on the west side of Elm Street to Ninth Street and continuing west to
College Street; and the area north of Eighth Street to the western city limits.
   (B)   Second Ward. The part of the city which extends from the area south of
Eighth Street from the western city limits and continuing east to College
Street; and the area south of Ninth Street going east to Oak Street; and the
area south of Eighth Street to the eastern city limits.
   (C)   Third Ward. The part of the city which extends from the northern city
limits on the east side of Elm Street to Ninth Street and continuing east to
Oak Street, and the area north of Eighth Street to the eastern city limits.
(Prior Code, § 2.0103) (Ord. 455, passed 10-1-2001)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMON COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   GENERAL CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COMMON COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Powers of the Council
   
30.02   Meetings of the Council
   
30.03   Special meetings
   
30.04   Quorum
   
30.05   President and Vice President; duties
   
30.06   Manner of voting
   
30.07   Reconsideration
   
30.08   Publication of proceedings
   
30.09   Compensation
Election of Council Members
   
30.20   Elective officers
   
30.21   Terms
   
30.22   Qualifications
   
30.23   Removal
   
30.24   Voting precincts
Order of Business
   
30.35   Regular meetings
   
30.36   Open to public
   
30.37   Disorderly conduct
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   The Common Council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of
its own members. It shall determine its own rules of procedure, punish its
members for disorderly conduct, and by a vote of two-thirds of the Council
members elected thereto may expel a member for cause.
(Prior Code, § 1.0401)
§ 30.02 MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Common Council shall hold its regular meetings on the first Monday
of each month at 6:30 p.m., of such day at such place as may be determined by
the Council.
   (B)   An alternative time and/or date of regular meetings may be adjusted as
deemed necessary by the Council and/or Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1.0402) (Ord. 441, passed 9-8-1999)
§ 30.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Common Council may be called by the Mayor or any two
Council members at any time to consider only such matters as shall be mentioned
in the call for such meeting. Personal notice of special meetings shall be
given either in writing, personal conversation, or by telephone to each member
of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.0403)
§ 30.04 QUORUM.
   A majority of the elected Council members shall constitute a quorum to do
business but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time. The meetings of
the Common Council shall be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 1.0404)
§ 30.05 PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting after the annual election in each year
and after the qualification of the newly-elected Council members, the Common
Council shall elect from among its own members a President and a Vice
President, who shall hold their respective offices for the municipal year.
(Prior Code, § 1.0405)
   (B)   The President of the Council, in the absence of the Mayor, shall be
the presiding officer of the Council during the absence of the Mayor from the
city of his or her temporary disability, shall be acting Mayor, and possess all
the powers of the Mayor. In the absence or disability of the Mayor and
President of the Council, the Vice President shall perform the duties of the
Mayor and President of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.0406)
§ 30.06 MANNER OF VOTING.
   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances and
resolutions and upon any proposal to create a liability against the city for
the expenditure or appropriation of its money, and in all other cases at the
request of any member and a record of the vote of each Council member, when
required, shall be entered in the journal of its proceedings. The concurrence
of the majority of all the Council members shall be necessary to the passage of
any such ordinance, resolution, or proposal to create a liability against the
city for the expenditure or appropriation of its money. It shall require a two-
thirds vote of all of the Council members to sell any property.
(Prior Code, § 1.0407)
§ 30.07 RECONSIDERATION.
   No vote of the Common Council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a
special meeting unless at such special meeting thereby present as large a
number of Council members as were present when the vote originally was taken.
(Prior Code, § 1.0408)
§ 30.08 PUBLICATION OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Municipal Finance Officer shall cause to be published in the official
newspaper, as required by state statutes, a full account of the proceedings of
all Common Council meetings, including a detailed statement of all expenditures
of money, the names of persons to whom payment is made, and showing the reasons
or services therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1.0314)
§ 30.09 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Common Council may determine the compensation for the Mayor and
Council members by resolution or ordinance. Members of the Common Council shall
receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of
their duties of office.
   (B)   If the President of the Council, or the Vice President, shall perform
the duties of the Mayor for as much as 60 days continuously during the year,
they or either of them so serving, shall for such period receive the pro-rated
salaries provided by resolution for the Officer of the Mayor in lieu of the
salary provided for Council members for such period of time, and the amount of
the Mayor’s salary for said period of time shall be reduced to a like amount.
The compensation of the Municipal Finance Officer shall be set by resolution of
the Common Council, and employees shall receive compensation as fixed by the
Common Council, by resolution, from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1.0701)
ELECTION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS
§ 30.20 ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
   The elective officers of the city, to be elected by city elections, shall be
a Mayor and two Council members from and representing each ward. A Council
member must be a resident of the ward he or she represents.
(Prior Code, § 1.0301)
§ 30.21 TERMS.
   (A)   The terms of elective officers shall be for two years. Council members
from each ward shall be elected on a rotating, alternate-year basis, so one
Council member from each ward shall be elected each year by annual election.
Each elective officer, after being elected to fill an expired-term vacancy,
shall enter upon the discharge of his or her duties:
      (1)   At the first regular meeting of the Common Council in the month
following the annual city election; and
      (2)   As soon after such officer shall have qualified.
   (B)   Thereafter, such officer shall serve until the expiration of such
term, and until a successor has been elected (or said incumbent officer has
been re-elected) and qualified at the first regular meeting of the Common
Council following such election.
(Prior Code, § 1.0302)
§ 30.22 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Mayor and Council members shall qualify by taking an oath of office.
Said oath of office shall be filed with the Municipal Finance Officer, and
consist of the following:
   (A)   A constitutional oath;
   (B)   A statement accepting responsibility to perform the duties of the
office faithfully, willingly, and impartially; and
   (C)   A commitment to uphold and comply with all laws in the performance of
such duties.
(Prior Code, § 1.0303)
§ 30.23 REMOVAL.
   The failure of any elective officer to qualify and enter upon the duties of
his or her office within ten days after notice of his or her election or
appointment shall constitute a just cause for removal from office, and shall
cause or constitute a vacancy in office. An elective officer may be removed
from office by action of the Common Council for malfeasance in office, act(s)
constituting conflict(s) of interest, incompetence, disability, and/or legal
incapacity.
(Prior Code, § 1.0304)
§ 30.24 VOTING PRECINCTS.
   Except as shall be provided otherwise by ordinance, each ward of the city
shall constitute an election precinct for municipal purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2.0104)
ORDER OF BUSINESS
§ 30.35 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   At all regular meetings of the Common Council, after the same shall
have been called to order and the roll call noted by the Municipal Finance
Officer, the business meeting shall be considered in the following order,
except as hereinafter stated:
      (1)   Review of minutes of the last regular meeting and of any
intervening special meeting(s); correction, and approval of said minutes;
      (2)   Presentation of claims; approval, rejection;
      (3)   Review of the Municipal Finance Officer’s report(s); approval;
      (4)   Presentation of communications and correspondence;
      (5)   Introductions of motions, resolutions, ordinances, and first
reading(s) of ordinances(s);
      (6)   Items presented by the Mayor and Municipal Finance Officer;
      (7)   Reports of standing and special committees; additional motions,
resolutions, first reading of ordinances;
      (8)   Reports of other city officers;
      (9)   Unfinished business, new business, and miscellaneous business; and
      (10)   Adjournment.
   (B)   This order of business may be altered or temporarily suspended at any
meeting by and at the discretion of the Mayor or officer conducting the
meeting. As a matter of courtesy and consideration, the Mayor or Chairperson
may recognize visitors or delegations to state their proposed business and to
fit such visitors into the meeting order whenever it is deemed feasible and/or
desirable. Opening of bids should take place as advertised and should take
precedence in the order of meetings.
(Prior Code, § 1.0501)
§ 30.36 OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   All meetings of the Common Council, whether regular or special, shall be
open to the public. No person not a member shall participate in its
deliberations or address the Council without permission to do so.
(Prior Code, § 1.0502)
§ 30.37 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Anyone addressing the Council must give his or her name and address. The
Council expects that each speaker will be courteous. Speakers will address
their comments to the entire Council and not to individual Council members, the
Mayor, Finance or Deputy Finance Officer, or to the audience. Speakers are not
permitted to interrogate Council members or city employees. Speakers will not
be permitted to participate in gossip, make defamatory comments, or use abusive
or vulgar language. Speakers will not engage in personal attacks against
individuals on the Common Council or anyone in attendance. Failure to comply
with these guidelines may result in the speaker being denied the opportunity to
address the Council and being removed from the meeting room.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-15-2022)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who intentionally causes serious public inconvenience,
annoyance, or alarm to any other person, as described in §
30.37, or creates a risk thereof by is guilty of disorderly conduct. Disorderly
conduct is a Class 2 misdemeanor. However, if the defendant has been convicted
of or entered a plea of guilty to three or more violations of §
30.37 within the preceding ten years, the defendant is guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor for any fourth or subsequent offense:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting or in violent or threatening behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise;
      (3)   Disturbing any lawful assembly or meeting of persons without lawful
authority; or
      (4)   Obstructing vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 612, passed 2-15-2022)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Public records
   
31.02   Blanket bond
Appointed Officials Procedures; Regulations
   
31.15   Appointive officers
   
31.16   Terms
   
31.17   Certification
   
31.18   Vacancies
   
31.19   Removal
   
31.20   Qualifications
Officials of the City
   
31.35   Powers and duties of Mayor
   
31.36   Municipal Finance Officer
   
31.37   City Attorney
   
31.38   City Engineer
   
31.39   Street Superintendent
   
31.40   Utilities Superintendent
   
31.41   Garbage Inspector
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Every municipal officer shall keep a record of the official acts and
proceedings of his or her office, and shall be open to public inspection during
normal business hours under reasonable restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 1.0313)
Statutory reference:
   Public Records and Files, see SDCL Chapter 1-27
§ 31.02 BLANKET BOND.
   (A)   Along with the qualification, a bond is required of certain officers,
both elective and appointive, in order to qualify their office and is
established by state statue.
   (B)   The bond for the Municipal Finance Officer, Mayor, Council members,
and/or other officers, elective or appointive, as required by state statutes,
shall hereby apply. No other bond requirements are applicable by city
ordinances.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the city to pay the premium(s) on all bonds
required to be furnished by, and for, city officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 1.0702)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS PROCEDURES; REGULATIONS
§ 31.15 APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The appointive officers of the city shall be a Municipal Finance
Officer, Attorney, Engineer, Chief of Police, police officers, Street
Superintendent, and Utilities Superintendent, and any such officers or
employees as may be provided by ordinances, and/or as deemed necessary by the
Common Council. Said office of Municipal Finance Officer shall be subject to
all ordinances relative to an auditor and/or treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1.0305)
   (B)   All appointive city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
approval or confirmation of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.0306)
§ 31.16 TERMS.
   Each appointive officer shall enter upon the discharge of his or her duties
as soon as each has duly qualified as stipulated in §§
30.22 and
31.20, and shall hold office until the appointment and qualification of his or
her successor.
(Prior Code, § 1.0309)
§ 31.17 CERTIFICATION.
   All appointive officers shall be commissioned by a certificate of
appointment, signed by the Mayor and Municipal Finance Officer, under the seal
of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1.0308)
§ 31.18 VACANCIES.
   (A)   The failure of any appointive officer to qualify and enter upon the
duties of his or her office within ten days after notice of his or her
appointment shall constitute a just cause for removal from office, and shall
constitute a vacancy in the office.
   (B)   The conviction of any appointed officer of any public offense other
than a misdemeanor shall cause a vacancy in the office. An appointed officer
may be removed from office by action of the Common Council for malfeasance in
office, incompetence, acts constituting conflict of interest, disability, or
legal incapacity.
(Prior Code, § 1.0310)
   (C)   In case of vacancy from any cause in any appointed office, the vacancy
shall be filled by action of the Common Council in regular or special session.
(Prior Code, § 1.0311)
§ 31.19 REMOVAL.
   The Mayor shall have the power to remove from office any appointive officer
whenever the Mayor shall be of the opinion that the interests of the city
demands such removal, but said Mayor shall report such reasons to the Common
Council at its next regular meeting thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 1.0312)
§ 31.20 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor, Council members, Attorney, Chief of Police, police
officers, and Municipal Finance Officer shall qualify by taking an oath of
office.
   (B)   Such oath of office shall be filed with the Municipal Finance Officer,
and shall be similar to the oath prescribed in §
1.0251 of the City Charter.
(Prior Code, § 1.0307)
OFFICIALS OF THE CITY
§ 31.35 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor are enumerated in the City Charter §
1.0226.
(Prior Code, § 1.0601)
§ 31.36 MUNICIPAL FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   The duties of the Finance Officer shall be as follows:
      (1)   He or she shall keep his or her office at such place as the
governing body may direct;
      (2)   He or she shall keep the corporate seal, all papers and records of
the municipality, and a record of the proceedings of the governing body whose
meetings it shall be his or her duty to attend;
      (3)   He or she shall draw and countersign all warrants on the treasury
approved by the governing body and keep a full and accurate account thereof in
books provided for that purpose;
      (4)   He or she shall cause to be made estimates of the expenses of any
work done by the municipality, and countersign all contracts made on its
behalf;
      (5)   He or she shall keep regular books of accounts in which he or she
shall enter all indebtedness of the municipality, and shall at all times show
the financial condition of the city, the amount of bonds, warrants,
certificates, or other evidences of indebtedness which have been redeemed and
the amount of each outstanding;
      (6)   He or she shall countersign all bonds, warrants, or other evidences
of indebtedness of the municipality and keep accurate account thereof, stating
to whom and for what purpose issued and the amount thereof;
      (7)   He or she shall keep an account with all receiving and disbursing
officers of the city showing the amount they have received from the different
sources of revenue and the amount which they have disbursed under the direction
of the governing body;
      (8)   He or she shall examine all reports, books, papers, vouchers, and
demands against the city before they are allowed by the governing body; keep a
record of his or her accounts and doings; keep a record in which he or she
shall enter all contracts with an index thereto, which books shall be open to
the inspection of all parties interested; and perform such other duties as may
be required by ordinances, resolution, or direction of the governing body;
      (9)   He or she shall report to the governing body the receipts,
expenses, and financial condition of the municipality, as required by state
statutes, which report shall be published within 30 days thereafter in the
official paper;
      (10)   He or she shall make and keep a list of outstanding municipal
bonds to whom issued, for what purpose, when and where payable, the rate of
interest they respectively bear, and recommend such action to the governing
body as will secure the prompt payment of the principal and interest of such
bonds;
      (11)   He or she shall report annually on or before the first day of
September to the governing body an estimated budget of the expenses of the
municipality and revenue necessary to be raised for the ensuing year;
      (12)   He or she shall receive all money belonging to the municipality,
including taxes, licenses, fines, and income from all other sources, and keep
an accurate and detailed account thereof in such a manner as the governing body
may, from time to time, direct;
      (13)   He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation, and of the debits and credits belonging thereto;
      (14)   He or she shall give every person paying money into the treasury a
duplicate receipt therefor specifying the amount, date of payment, and upon
what account paid;
      (15)   He or she shall keep all monies in his or her possession belonging
to the municipality separate and distinct from his or her own monies;
      (16)   He or she shall report to the governing body, upon request, a full
and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures since his last report and
the balances in the treasury; and
      (17)   He or she shall keep a record of all warrants paid during the year
with their date, amount, number, the fund from which paid, the person to whom
paid, and the time of payment.
(Prior Code, § 1.0602)
   (B)   No money shall be paid out of the treasury except upon the warrant of
the Mayor, countersigned by the Finance Officer, except bonds and interest
coupons which, when due, may be paid upon presentation, and in case the same
are payable at some place other than within the city, the money for their
redemption shall be sent to the place where they are payable in time to meet
such payment when due.
(Prior Code, § 1.0603)
§ 31.37 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The municipality may or may not have a City Attorney, full-time or
part-time, or on a “on call” basis only when deemed necessary, or on an
intermittent or contractual basis.
   (B)   The Common Council shall prescribe the duties assigned to the City
Attorney for specific purposes and consultations for “on call” basis, or on an
intermittent or contractual basis.
   (C)   If said City Attorney is engaged regularly and appointed permanently
on a monthly salary or retainer-fee basis, such City Attorney shall have the
following duties:
      (1)   To furnish to the governing body or any officer of the city, an
opinion upon any matter relating to the affairs of the city or to the official
duties of such officers;
      (2)   To conduct the prosecution of all actions or proceedings arising
out of the violation of any ordinance;
      (3)   To represent the city in all actions or proceedings to which it may
be a party; and
      (4)   To perform such other professional services incident to his or her
office as may be required by ordinance or directed by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1.0605)
§ 31.38 CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The municipality may or may not have a City Engineer, for full-time or
part-time, or on a“on call” basis only when deemed necessary, or on an
intermittent contractual basis. The City Engineer’s duties shall consist of
those duties assigned by the Common Council for specific purposes and technical
assistance as necessary.
   (B)   If said City Engineer is engaged regularly and appointed permanently
on a monthly salary or retainer fee, such City Engineer shall have the
following duties:
      (1)   He or she shall prepare all surveys, profiles, plans, and estimates
required by the municipality and all such surveys, plans, profiles, or
estimates shall be the property of the city and shall be carefully preserved
either in the office of the City Engineer or the Municipal Finance Officer, and
shall be open to public inspection; and
      (2)   The governing body may, by ordinance, prescribe any further duties
and shall also fix his or her compensation.
(Prior Code, § 1.0606)
§ 31.39 STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   He or she shall inspect and maintain in good repair all streets and
alleys in the city.
   (B)   He or she shall supervise and maintain the city parks.
   (C)   He or she shall assist in the maintenance of the airport, sewer
lagoon, city equipment, and buildings.
   (D)   He or she shall perform other services as may be required by
ordinances or as directed by the Council.
   (E)   His or hers hours of labor and compensation shall be fixed by
resolution by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.0608)
§ 31.40 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Utilities Superintendent is charged with the maintenance, repair,
improvement, and supervision of the water and sewer systems.
(Prior Code, § 5.0102)
   (B)   (1)   He or she shall be in complete charge of the water plant and
sewer disposal system, and provide the city with services and records as
provided by ordinances or as directed by the Council.
      (2)   His or her hours of labor and compensation shall be fixed by
resolution or as directed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.0609)
§ 31.41 GARBAGE INSPECTOR.
   The collection and removal of garbage and refuse matter shall be conducted
under the supervision, direction, and control of a Garbage Inspector, to be
appointed by the Mayor and Common Council, and to report and be answerable
directly to the Common Council, or to the Board of Health. If no Garbage
Inspector is appointed, then to the Chief of Police shall perform the duties of
the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 4.0313)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Board of Adjustment; Common Council
   
32.01   Establishment and procedure
   
32.02   Proceedings
   
32.03   Powers
   
32.04   Appeals process
   
32.05   Fees, charges, and expenses
   
32.06   Amendments
   
32.07   Minimum requirements
   
32.08   Complaints
Board of Health
   
32.20   Right to appoint
   
32.21   Power to regulate
   
32.22   Duties
   
32.23   Reporting to Board
   
32.24   Quarantine actions
   
32.25   Unlawful interference
   
32.26   Expenses
   
32.27   Enforcement for lack of Board
 
   
32.99   Penalty
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; COMMON COUNCIL
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND PROCEDURE.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby established pursuant to SDCL § 11-4-24. The
Common Council shall act as and perform all the duties and exercise the powers
contained in SDCL § 11-4. The Mayor shall be Chairperson of the Board of
Adjustment as so composed. The concurring vote of at least two- thirds of the
members of such Board as so composed shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of any administrative official, or to
decide in favor of the appellant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under any zoning ordinance or to affect any variation in such ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3.1401) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 32.02 PROCEEDINGS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its
affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this subchapter. Meetings shall
be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may
determine. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting Chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall
be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 3.1402)
§ 32.03 POWERS.
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
the administrative official in the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.1404)
   (B)   Special Exceptions. Conditions governing applications, procedures to
hear and decide only such special exceptions as the Board of Adjustment is
specifically authorized to pass on by the terms of this subchapter, to decide
such questions as are involved in determining whether special exceptions should
be granted, and to grant special exceptions with such conditions and safeguards
as are appropriate under this subchapter, or to deny special exceptions when
not in harmony with the purpose and intent of this subchapter, a special
exception shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment unless and until:
      (1)   A written application for a special exception is submitted
indicating the section of this subchapter under which the special exception is
sought, and stating the grounds on which it is requested;
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given once at
least ten days in advance by publication in a legal newspaper of the
municipality. The owner of the property for which special exception is sought
or his or her agent shall be notified by mail. Notice of such hearings shall be
posted on the property for which special exception is sought, at the City Hall,
and in one other public place at least ten days prior to the public hearing;
      (3)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person,
or by agent or attorney;
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that it is empowered
under the section of this subchapter described in the application to grant the
special exception, and that the granting of the special exception will not
adversely affect the public interest; and
      (5)   Before any special exception shall issue, the Board shall make
written findings certifying compliance with the specific rules governing
individual special exceptions, and that satisfactory provision and arrangement
has been made concerning the following, where applicable:
         (a)   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures thereon
with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow, and control and access in case of fire or catastrophe;
         (b)   Off-street parking and loading areas where required, with
particular attention to the items in division (B)(5)(a) above and the economic,
noise, glare, or odor effects of the special exception on adjoining properties
and properties generally in the district;
         (c)   Refuse and service areas, with particular reference to the items
in divisions (B)(5)(a) and (B)(5)(b) above;
         (d)   Utilities, with reference to locations, availability, and
compatibility;
         (e)   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions, and
character;
         (f)   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect, and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district;
         (g)   Required yards and other open space; and
         (h)   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other
property in the district.
(Prior Code, § 3.1405)
   (C)   (1)   Variances; Conditions governing applications; procedures. To
authorize upon appeal in specific cases, such variance from the terms of this
subchapter as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter
would result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of the subchapter
shall be observed and substantial justice done. A variance from the terms of
this subchapter shall not be granted by the Board of Adjustment unless and
until a written application for a variance is submitted demonstrating:
         (a)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structures, or buildings in the same district;
         (b)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this subchapter
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this subchapter;
         (c)   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
         (d)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this subchapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
      (2)   No non-conforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or
buildings in the same district, and no permitted or non-conforming use of
lands, structures, or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds
for the issuance of a variance.
         (a)   Notice of public hearing shall be given as in division (B)(2)
above.
         (b)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in
person, or by agent or by attorney.
         (c)   The Board of Adjustment shall make findings that the
requirements of division (C)(1)(a) above have been met by the applicant for a
variance.
         (d)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and
that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of the land, building, or structure.
         (e)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this subchapter, and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
      (3)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this subchapter.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
subchapter and punishable under §
32.99(A).
      (4)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this subchapter in
the district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this subchapter in said district.
(Prior Code, § 3.1406)
   (D)   Board’s powers of administrative official on appeals; reversing
decision of administrative official.
      (1)   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board of Adjustment
may, so long as such action is in conformity with the terms of this subchapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement,
decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have the
powers of the administrative official from whom the appeal is taken.
      (2)   The concurring vote of two-thirds of the members of the Board shall
be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of
the administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under this subchapter, or to affect
any variation in the application of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.1407)
(Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 32.04 APPEALS PROCESS.
   (A)   Any person or persons, or any board, taxpayer, department, board, or
bureau of the city aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustment may
seek review by a court of record of such decision, in the manner provided by
the laws of the state and particularly by SDCL § 11-4.
(Prior Code, § 3.1408)
   (B)   It is the intent of this subchapter that all questions of
interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the administrative
official, and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment
only on appeal from the decision of the administrative official, and that
recourse from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be to the courts
as provided by law and particularly by SDCL § 11-4 . Under this subchapter the
Common Council acting in the capacity of the Common Council and not as the
Board of Adjustment shall have only the duties:
      (1)   Of considering and adopting, or rejecting, proposed amendments or
the repeal of this subchapter as provided by law; and
      (2)   Of establishing a schedule of fees and charges as stated in §
32.05.
(Prior Code, § 3.1501)
(Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 32.05 FEES, CHARGES, AND EXPENSES.
   The Common Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and expenses
and a collection procedure for building permits, certificates of zoning
compliance, appeals, and other matters pertaining to this subchapter. The
schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the administrative official,
and may be altered or amended only by the Common Council. Until all applicable
fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on
any application or appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3.1502)
§ 32.06 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this
subchapter may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, modified,
or repealed, provided that such modification or repeal shall in each instance
be proposed in an ordinance presented to the governing body for adoption in the
same manner, and upon the same notice as required for the adoption of the
original ordinance.
   (B)   Prior to consideration of amending, supplementing, changing,
modifying, or repealing this subchapter by the governing body, notice of public
hearings shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   If the proposed changes affect a particular piece of property
notification, signs shall be posted on the property upon which action is
pending at least seven days prior to the hearing date. Such signs shall be
placed along the property’s street frontage so as to be visible from the
street. If a property does not have a street frontage, then such signs shall be
placed upon the closest available right-of-way and upon the property. Said
signs shall be not less than 187 square inches in size. It shall be unlawful
for any person to remove, mutilate, destroy, or change such posted notice prior
to such hearings.
      (2)   At least ten days before the date of the Planning Commission
hearing, the city shall have published, in a legal newspaper of the city, a
notice of the time, place, and subject matter of such hearing.
      (3)   If the proposed changes affect a particular piece of property,
written notice of the public hearing shall be sent to the applicant and all
owners of real property lying within 150 feet of the property on which the
conditional use is pending. The notice shall be given to each owner of record
by depositing such notice in the United States Post Office not less than ten
days prior to the hearing date.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing, review the
proposed amendment(s), and make recommendations to the Common Council.
      (5)   The city shall provide public notification pursuant to divisions
(A) and (B) above before the date of the Common Council hearing.
      (6)   The Common Council shall hold the public hearing, review the
proposed amendment(s), and, by resolution or ordinance, deny or pass the
recommendations.
      (7)   If the changes are adopted the Planning Commission shall prepare a
summary of the changes.
      (8)   Once the summary is prepared the City Attorney shall review the
changes and forward the changes to the City Finance Officer for publishing.
      (9)   The summary of changes must be published once in a legal newspaper
of the city.
      (10)   The changes take effect 20 days after publication.
(Prior Code, § 3.1503) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.07 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
subchapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion
of the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare.
   (B)   Wherever the requirements of this subchapter are at variance with the
requirements of any other lawfully-adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed
restrictions, or covenants, the most restrictive, or that imposing the higher
standards, shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 3.1504)
§ 32.08 COMPLAINTS.
   Whenever a violation of this subchapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint, stating
fully the causes and basis thereof, shall be filed with the administrative
official. He or she shall record properly such complaint, immediately
investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.1505)
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 32.20 RIGHT TO APPOINT.
   (A)   (1)   The Common Council may, at its discretion, form a City Board of
Health to supplement the duties and/or activities of the State Board of Health.
Such City Board of Health, if so formed, shall consist of the Mayor, Municipal
Finance Officer, Chief of Police, and a physician or medical doctor.
      (2)   The Mayor shall be the Chairperson, the Municipal Finance Officer
shall be the Clerk; the Chief of Police shall be the Inspector and
Investigator, and the medical doctor shall be the Superintendent of the City
Board of Health.
   (B)   The President, Clerk, and Inspector and Investigator shall serve
without additional compensation, and the Superintendent shall receive for his
or her services a reasonable sum customarily charged for services. A City
Sanitation Superintendent may be appointed to assist the City Board of Health
in an advisory capacity, and shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 4.0101)
§ 32.21 POWER TO REGULATE.
   The City Board of Health shall have power to establish such sanitary
regulations as well as, in its judgment, prevent the spread of diseases, to
encourage isolation of persons afflicted with contagious or infections
diseases, or to take other actions to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 4.0102)
§ 32.22 DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of such City Board of Health to keep a record of
regulations established by such Board, and it shall be the duty of the Clerk of
the Board to record in a book, to be known as the Board of Health Regulations,
all sanitary regulations of a permanent nature.
(Prior Code, § 4.0103)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Board of Health to confer with the
State Board of Health and to report any situations that pose a threat to the
health, safety, and welfare of the public to said State Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 4.0104)
§ 32.23 REPORTING TO BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of every physician, medical doctor, motel/hotelkeeper,
keeper of any boarding or rooming house, restaurant, public resort, medical
clinic, or school, within the city to report to the Superintendent of the City
Board of Health each and every case of contagious or infectious disease coming
to their knowledge or attention.
(Prior Code, § 4.0105)
§ 32.24 QUARANTINE ACTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the City Board of
Health, or any member thereof, from report or otherwise, that any person is
afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease within the city, it shall be
the duty of said Board to notify the State Board of Health for instructions,
assistance, and advice as to how to proceed further relative to possible
isolation, quarantine, or removal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the City Board of
Health to impose quarantine regulations whenever the same are authorized or
justified under the rules and regulations of the State Board of Health and/or
the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4.0106)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Board of Health and the
Superintendent, upon receiving notice or knowledge of the presence of
infectious disease, to observe or follow the current practice, custom, usage,
and regulations of the State Board of Health to avoid spread of such disease
and for the protection of the public. Current practice, custom, usage, or State
Board of Health regulations or recommendations shall be followed relative to
necessity and advisability for quarantine, quarantine notice, nature of the
disease, or posting a sign or notice at the entrance of the room or house in
which the patient(s) shall be.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the head of the family in the city,
whenever it shall come to his or her attention or notice, that any member of
his or her family or any person lodging within his or her dwelling is afflicted
with a contagious or infectious disease to take appropriate action immediately.
      (2)   Such appropriate action shall include a notice thereof to the
Superintendent of the City Board of Health or the observance of current
practice, custom, usage, or State Board of Health regulations or
recommendations relative to the necessity and advisability for quarantine,
quarantine notice, nature of the disease, or posting a sign or notice at the
entrance of the room or house in which the patient(s) shall be.
(Prior Code, § 4.0107)
§ 32.25 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any sign or notice posted for
administering this subchapter, or any quarantine measures, except upon the
order or under the direction of the Superintendent of the City Board of Health.
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the City Board of Health
or any member thereof, or any person acting under the direction of the Board
while in the discharge of any duties conferred upon the Board under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.0108) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.26 EXPENSES.
   All lawful and necessary expenses under the provisions of this subchapter
shall be a charge against the General Fund of the city and shall be audited,
authorized, and paid as other bills are.
(Prior Code, § 4.0109)
§ 32.27 ENFORCEMENT FOR LACK OF BOARD.
   If a City Board of Health is not formed, as per discretionary provisions in
§
32.20, the Chief of Police is hereby charged with, and assigned the duty of,
enforcement of all laws and regulations imposed by the state, the State Health
Department, County Health Department (if any exists), and the city as they
pertain to the protection of public health, safety, and welfare. It shall be
the continuing duty of the Chief of Police to monitor any conditions and/or
hazards that pose, or could pose, a threat to such health, safety, and welfare
to the community, and it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to report any
such hazards or conditions to the Common Council and the State Board of Health
officials promptly.
(Prior Code, § 4.0111)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of the provisions of §§
32.04(B) through
32.08 or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants or
variances, or special exceptions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person
who violates §§
32.04(B) through
32.08 or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days,
or both, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 3.1506)
   (C)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
32.20 through
32.27 shall be a charge against the General Fund of the city and shall be
audited, authorized, and paid as other bills are.
(Prior Code, § 4.0110)
(Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Chief of Police, police officers; powers and duties
   
33.02   Duties of citizens to assist police officers
Volunteer Fire and Ambulance Department
   
33.15   Establishment
   
33.16   By-laws and constitution
   
33.17   Meetings
   
33.18   Council role in department
   
33.19   Regulation of equipment
   
33.20   Damaging equipment
   
33.21   False alarm
   
33.22   Provincial police power
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 CHIEF OF POLICE, POLICE OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall perform such duties as shall be prescribed
by the governing body for the preservation of peace.
   (B)   (1)   All police officers shall possess the powers necessary for
effective law enforcement.
      (2)   Police officers shall execute and serve all warrants, process
commitments, and writs as issued.
      (3)   Police officers may pursue and arrest any person fleeing from
justice in any part of the state and when performing the duties aforesaid, may
arrest and detain any person guilty of any breach of the peace or any violation
of the laws of the state or ordinances of the city.
      (4)   Police officers shall perform such other services as may be
required or directed by the ordinances or the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.0607)
§ 33.02 DUTIES OF CITIZENS TO ASSIST POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, when so requested, to refuse to aid and
assist any police officer of the city to suppress any riot or disturbance, any
unlawful assemblage, or to arrest or attempt to arrest any person for any
violation of any ordinance of said city, or to prevent the violation of any of
said ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.0506) Penalty, see §
10.99
VOLUNTEER FIRE AND AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a City Fire Department and a City Ambulance
Department.
(Ord. 414, passed 9-1-1993; Ord. 499, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 33.16 BY-LAWS AND CONSTITUTION.
   Said organizations shall adopt a departmental constitution and by-laws,
subordinate to the ordinances of the city and subject to the approval of the
Common Council. Rules and regulations shall be provided in the by-laws for each
Department’s conduct and coordinated service between the two Departments for
public protection and safety, with full authority in the Fire Chief and
Ambulance Director to enforce their respective rules and regulations, subject
to review or confirmation of the Common Council.
(Ord. 414, passed 9-1-1993; Ord. 499, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 33.17 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Fire Department regular meetings shall be held on the third Tuesday of
each month. Ambulance Department regular meetings shall be held on the fourth
Monday of each month.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called at any time by the Fire Chief or acting
Chief and Ambulance Director as necessity requires for their respective
departments.
(Ord. 499, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 33.18 COUNCIL ROLE IN DEPARTMENT.
   The Common Council shall have the power to remove any officer of the Fire
Department and/or Ambulance Department from his or her office and to veto,
amend, or suspend any by-law or resolution enacted by the members of the Fire
Department and Ambulance Department.
(Ord. 414, passed 9-1-1993; Ord. 499, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 33.19 REGULATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   No engine, truck, or other firefighting equipment belonging to the city, in
any way connected with the Fire and Ambulance Departments, shall be taken out
of the city limits, except under such discretionary regulations or decisions as
the Fire Chief may from time to time establish. Ambulance equipment and
property shall be authorized to be taken out of the city limits, as a service
to rural residents, under rules established by said Fire and Ambulance
Departments.
(Prior Code, § 8.0108) (Ord. 414, passed 9-1-1993)
§ 33.20 DAMAGING EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully break, deface, destroy, cut, or in any manner
injure or damage, tamper, or interfere with any fire engine or any other
firefighting apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 8.0109) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.21 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowingly, to give a false alarm or
false report of a fire in any manner whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8.0110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.22 PROVINCIAL POLICE POWER.
   All firefighters, at fires, shall have full power as a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 8.0111)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Payment of warrants
Municipal Sales and Taxes; Use Tax
   
34.15   Purpose
   
34.16   Enactment
   
34.17   Collection
   
34.18   Use tax
   
34.19   Interpretation
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 PAYMENT OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   All warrants shall be paid in the order in which they are presented
out of the funds upon which they may be drawn.
   (B)   Every such warrant shall be paid upon presentation if there is
sufficient money in the fund upon which it is drawn to pay the same.
   (C)   If not, it shall be registered as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1.0604)
MUNICIPAL SALES AND TAXES; USE TAX
§ 34.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the city by imposing a municipal retail sales and use tax pursuant to the
powers granted to the municipality by the state, by SDCL § 10-52 entitled
“Uniform Municipal Non-Ad Valorem Tax Law,” and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1.0801)
§ 34.16 ENACTMENT.
   From and after January 1, 2006, there is hereby imposed as a municipal
retail occupational sales and service tax upon the privilege of engaging in
business, a tax measured by 2% on the gross receipts of all persons engaged in
business within the jurisdiction of the city, who are subject to the state
Retail Occupational Sales and Service Tax, SDCL § 10-45 and acts amendatory
thereto. Tax will apply to the municipally-owned airport outside the city
corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 1.0802) (Ord. 460, passed 8-11-2003; Ord. 469, passed 9-1-2005)
§ 34.17 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL § 10-52 and
acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue in accordance with the same rules and regulations applicable to the
state sales tax, and under such additional rules and regulations as the
Secretary of Revenue of the state shall lawfully prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 1.0803)
§ 34.18 USE TAX.
   There is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of use, storage, and
consumption within the jurisdiction of the city of tangible personal property
or services purchased from and after January 1, 2006, at the same rate as the
municipal sales and service tax upon all transactions or use, storage, and
consumption which are subject to the State Use Tax Act, SDCL § 10-46, and acts
amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1.0804) (Ord. 469, passed 9-1-2005)
§ 34.19 INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the State Retail Occupational Sales and Service Act, SDCL §
10-45; and acts amendatory thereto, and the State Use Tax, SDCL § 10-46, and
acts amendatory hereto, and that this shall be considered a similar tax except
for the rate thereof to that tax.
(Prior Code, § 1.0805) (Ord. 460, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments
prescribed by §§
34.15 through
34.19 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned in the city jail for
30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   In addition, all such collection remedies authorized by SDCL § 10-
45, and acts amendatory thereto, and SDCL § 10-46, and acts amendatory thereto,
are hereby authorized for the collection of these excise taxes by the
Department of Revenue and Regulation.
(Prior Code, § 1.0806) (Ord. 460, passed 8-11-2003)
CHAPTER 35: GENERAL CITY POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Capital improvement planning
   
35.02   Insurance of public property
§ 35.01 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLANNING.
   The city annually updates a recommended priority schedule of necessary
municipal capital improvements. These improvements shall be recommended for
projection for a period of five years and so prepared as to show the general
description, justification, and estimated cost of each individual capital
improvement. The priority schedule shall also include a proposed method of
financing.
(Prior Code, § 2.0101)
§ 35.02 INSURANCE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The Municipal Finance Officer shall, under the direction of the Common
Council, keep all public property of the city properly protected by insurance
against loss or damage by fire, lightning, tornado, and hail in reliable and
responsible insurance companies, and securely keep such policies of insurance.
The Municipal Finance Officer shall also advise the Common Council in writing
at least 30 days before the expiration date of any policies of insurance
carried on said public property.
(Prior Code, § 10.0507)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWAGE
      
52.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   City-owned utilities
   
50.02   Permit
   
50.03   Application
   
50.04   Supervision
   
50.05   Inspection
   
50.06   Use of water
   
50.07   Bulk water sales
   
50.08   Water rentals collection
   
50.09   Determination of rate
   
50.10   Fees for tapping
   
50.11   Water rental consumers; rates and charges
   
50.12   Delinquent water charges
   
50.13   Owner/lessee liability
   
50.14   Initial deposits
Water Regulations
   
50.25   Accessibility/reading of meter
   
50.26   Water service lines; city water mains
   
50.27   Subsequent installations
   
50.28   Valve maintenance
   
50.29   Care of meter
Construction; Maintenance
   
50.40   Trenches
   
50.41   Refilling
Depreciation of Water Utilities
   
50.55   Objectives and public interest
   
50.56   Definitions
   
50.57   Recognized depreciation
   
50.58   Depreciation reserve account
   
50.59   Use of depreciation reserve account; adjustments
   
50.60   Expenditures; adjustments
   
50.61   Unlawful use
   
50.62   Investment
   
50.63   Retention
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 CITY-OWNED UTILITIES.
   The city-owned public utilities are the water system and sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 5.0101)
§ 50.02 PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation to make
connections, attach to any water main in the city, or make any excavations in
the streets, alleys, or public property of the city, or under the sidewalks of
the city, for the purpose of making new connections or attachments to any water
main without first having obtained a permit therefor from the Common Council,
the Building Permit Committee designated by the Council, the Municipal Finance
Officer, or the Utilities Superintendent of the city. The Utilities
Superintendent shall serve as the inspector for such connections and
installations.
(Prior Code, § 5.0201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a water service connection shall be made by the owner
or agent of the property where water service is desired to the Common Council,
setting forth the lot and block where the water is desired.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to tap any water main before:
      (1)   Said application for water service connection is approved by the
Common Council, the Building Permit Committee designated by the Council, the
Municipal Finance Officer, or the Utilities Superintendent; and
      (2)   The fees for tapping or hook-on are paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 5.0202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 SUPERVISION.
   All work done and material furnished in repairing pipes heretofor laid
between the main and curb stops, and all work hereinafter done and material
hereinafter furnished in making taps and laying new pipe between the main and
curb stop, shall be under the supervision of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 5.0206)
§ 50.05 INSPECTION.
   The city shall hereby have the right to inspect water hookups and meters,
and/or remote reading devices, on the premises of the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 5.0312)
§ 50.06 USE OF WATER.
   (A)   The Common Council shall have the right at any time to adopt rules and
regulations governing the use of water furnished by the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0304)
   (B)   No allowance shall be made on water bills for excessive use occasioned
by leaks or waste within or upon the premises of the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 5.0305)
§ 50.07 BULK WATER SALES.
   (A)   Water may be sold in bulk to commercial, domestic, and private water
users or haulers. The rate(s) for such bulk water rates shall be established by
the Common Council by resolution from time to time.
   (B)   The Common Council shall reserve the right to implement, develop,
establish, and/or maintain procedures and regulations for administering the
sale of bulk water, or designating a central pickup and loading point therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5.0307) (Ord. 420, passed 11-2-1994; Ord. 477, passed 8-6-2007;
Ord. 492, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 50.08 WATER RENTALS COLLECTION.
   The Municipal Finance Officer of the city shall receive the water rentals,
issue the receipts therefor, make entries in the books furnished for that
purpose by the city, and prepare a proper account for the Common Council
periodically.
(Prior Code, § 5.0309)
§ 50.09 DETERMINATION OF RATE.
   The Common Council hereby reserves the right to evaluate the water rental
hookups and to determine which rate classification shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 5.0313)
§ 50.10 FEES FOR TAPPING.
   Upon request for water service, the applicant shall pay the Municipal
Finance Officer such sum of money as may have been fixed by resolution by the
Common Council for such tapping fees, and which sum may be changed from time to
time to cover the cost of tapping and connections to the curb stops.
(Prior Code, § 5.0203)
§ 50.11 WATER RENTAL CONSUMERS; RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Water rental consumers shall be divided into nine divisions or
categories, stated as rate classes, as follows:
      (1)   Class 1, all single-unit hookups within the city limits;
      (2)   Class 2, all multiple-units under one meter, and located within the
city limits;
      (3)   Class 3, trailer courts within the city limits;
      (4)   Class 4, single-unit hookups outside the city limits;
      (5)   Class 5, churches and church-related single-unit hookups outside
the city limits;
      (6)   Class 6, multiple-unit hookups for churches and church-related
dwellings, households, residences, or establishments outside the city limits
and operating under one meter;
      (7)   Class 7, the Springfield Correctional Facility;
      (8)   Class 8, industrial within the city limits; and
      (9)   Class 9, industrial outside the city limits
(Prior Code, § 5.0301)
   (B)   Rates and charges shall be established and approved by the Common
Council from time to time by resolution for the following classes, and shall be
payable as the minimum charge for each 1,000 gallons or part thereof in excess
of 2,000 gallons of water supplied and distributed within and outside the city
limits, and by the city, in each calendar month, to each dwelling household,
residence, or establishment connected to the municipal water and distribution
system. For the purposes of this chapter, multiple units shall consist of two
or more dwellings, households, residences, or establishments located in the
same building or premises, regardless whether the water rental charges are paid
by the consumer of each unit individually, or by one party collectively or
totally. A separate unit engaged in doing light housekeeping, for instance,
shall be considered as a unit in determining whether a multiple-unit
classification shall be assigned.
      (1)   For Class 1, all single-unit hookups within the city limits, rates
and charges shall be established and approved by the Common Council from time
to time by resolution.
      (2)   For Class 2, all multiple-units utilizing one meter, and located
within the city limits, due to existing multiple-unit dwellings, households,
residences, or establishments located in the same building and served by one
common meter, instead of a single meter for each individual unit, such
multiple-unit dwellings, households, residences, or establishments shall have
their monthly water rental charges calculated as follows.
         (a)   The meter reading utilization of the one common meter shall be
divided equally by the number of units served thereby by such single meter, and
each unit shall be subject to the Class 1 rate schedule, and the said Class 1
rate schedule shall be applied to the calculation of such equal division of the
total water meter reading utilization of each individual unit occupied.
         (b)   Owners of the multiple-unit building must pay the monthly water
charges and assessments promptly for the full, total, and aggregate amount due
collectively for each building so serve by the common meter. Such calculations
of monthly billings shall apply only to existing multiple-unit dwellings,
multiple-unit households, multiple-unit residences, or multiple-unit
establishments served by one common meter and existing at the initial effective
date of this chapter. All multiple-unit dwellings, multiple-unit households,
multiple-unit residences, or multiple-unit establishments constructed, or
established, after the initial effective date of this chapter, shall be subject
to either one of these two options.
            1.   Each and every unit shall be served by an individual meter,
separately and individually, and the regular Class 1 rate schedule shall apply
for each separate meter; and one extra utility and building-services meter be
installed, and the regular Class 1 rate shall apply to such extra utility and
building-services meter.
            2.   All multiple-unit dwellings, multiple-unit households,
multiple unit residences, or multiple-unit establishments located in the same
building may be served by one common meter provided that the following are
complied with:
               a.   A central, common meter be installed and maintained at the
owner’s cost;
               b.   An additional water meter be installed for the utility and
building-services function, and that the plumbing be installed so that the
utilization for such utility and building-services function can be accurately
isolated for meter measurements; such second meter to be furnished by the city;
               c.   The meter reading utilization of the one common meter shall
be divided equally by the number of occupied units served thereby; and that
each unit shall be subject to the Class 1 rate schedule for the calculation of
each equal division of the total meter reading of the central, common meter. A
monthly minimum (or more according to actual meter reading) shall be assessed
for each and every individual unit occupied, in addition to a minimum (or more
according to actual meter reading) for the utility and building-services
function meter;
               d.   Owners of the multiple-unit building shall pay the monthly
water charges and assessments promptly for the full, total, and aggregate
amount due collectively for each building so served by the common meter; and
               e.   Any multiple-unit dwellings, multiple-unit households,
multiple-unit residences, or multiple-unit establishments existing prior to the
initial effective date of this chapter may hereinafter select such options.
      (3)   For Class 3, trailer courts within the city limits, trailer courts,
or mobile-home courts, currently having several or all units served through one
or more common meter(s), and duly approved for this rate schedule by the Common
Council, shall have their monthly water rental charges calculated as follows:
The total meter reading utilization(s) of one or more common meter(s) shall be
divided equally by the number of occupied units (trailer homes, mobile homes,
dwellings, service buildings, or other units) served thereby to obtain an equal
division (average). Each/every unit shall have the monthly water rental charges
calculated as established by the Common Council from time to time by
resolution. The owner or operator of the trailer court shall remit each month
the full sum, total, and aggregate amount due collectively as calculated for
the individual units served by one or more meter(s), and provided such total
monthly water rental charges are paid before they become delinquent.
      (4)   For Class 4, single-unit hookups outside the city limits, all
single-unit dwellings, households, residences, units, or hookups located
outside the city limits shall be assessed monthly water rental charges at a
higher rate than that of Class 1 established and approved by the Common Council
from time to time by resolution.
      (5)   For Class 5, churches and church-related single-unit hookups
outside the city limits, the rates and charges are hereby established to be the
same as those assigned for Class 1.
      (6)   For Class 6, multiple-unit hookups for churches and church-related
dwellings, household, residences, or establishments outside the city limits and
currently operating under one meter, this class, having several or all units
served through one common meter, the monthly water rental charges shall be
calculated and determined as follows: The first 2,000 gallons shall be charged
to the church, church-related, or worship facilities, and assessed the minimum
charge using the Class 1 rates. The remaining utilization, obtained from the
common meter after the deduction of the first 2,000 gallons, shall be assigned
to the second unit. The monthly water rental charge shall be based upon the
Class 1 rates commencing with minimum charge and the subsequent steps as
applicable for such second unit.
      (7)   For Class 7, Springfield Correctional Facility, rates and charges
shall be negotiated with the Springfield Correctional Facility at periodic
intervals deemed desirable by the Common Council.
      (8)   For Class 8, industrial within the city limits, industrial rates
for industries located within the corporate limits of the city shall be
negotiable between the Common Council and the industrial unit.
      (9)   For Class 9, industrial outside the city limits. industrial rates
for industries located outside the corporate city shall be negotiated between
the Common Council and the industrial unit, but shall be at a higher rate than
that of Class 8.
(Prior Code, § 5.0302)
   (C)   The rates, and rate schedules, enacted, approved, negotiated, fixed,
or accepted in this section for all classes (one through, and including, nine)
shall not, necessarily, include water rights fees, regulatory charges, program-
policing fees, severance taxes, analysis or review fee, or any other related
water utility charges, fees, or impositions against the city by state, federal,
or other governments or governmental agencies. Any such charges, fees, imposed
costs, severance or other taxes, or any other fees may, at the discretion of
the Common Council, be passed on to the city’s water patrons, customers, users,
or purchasers (regardless of classification). Such charges may be prorated
equitably, divided equally, or apportioned at the discretion of the Common
Council, and billed and identified as a separate line item on one or more
periodic billing statements or cycles until such charges are recovered,
reimbursed, or indemnified.
(Prior Code, § 5.03021)
(Ord. 420, passed 11-2-1994; Ord. 477, passed 8-6-2007; Ord. 492, passed 5-2-
2011; Res/ passed - -2015)
§ 50.12 DELINQUENT WATER CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Payment of the monthly water rental charges shall be due and
payable within ten days following the month of billing, after which time the
charges shall become delinquent. A monthly charge shall be assessed to the
water rental account, as soon as it becomes delinquent, and shall continue to
accrue per month.
      (2)   A 30-day grace period shall be allowed for payment in full, and if
the water rental charges are not paid in full at the end of the grace period,
the water service shall be shut off or discontinued without notice, and when
shutoff for non-payment of water rental charges is made, the water service
shall not be turned on again until all water rental charges and penalties,
together with an additional charge for turning off-and-on fee, are paid in
full. Such total charges shall also include the current monthly billing. The
Common Council may from time to time, by resolution, establish the delinquent
water charge rates and charges, including the categories of collection, as to
residential, commercial, or any other special categories or rates.
   (B)   A late notice letter shall be mailed to the customer with the current
statement with the delinquent amount due by the tenth of the month. If payment
is not made, a second notice letter shall be delivered by a police officer with
the shut off date. If customer asks to have the due date extended, the Finance
Officer or assigned individual may provide a payment plan option. Any
individual dispute shall be put in writing and submitted to the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.0303) (Ord. 410, passed 9-2-1992; Ord. 486, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 50.13 OWNER/LESSEE LIABILITY.
   The owner of private property, and which property has upon it pipes
connected with the city waterworks to convey water to, and upon, such property,
shall, as well as the lessee or occupant of the premises, be liable to the city
for the rent charges, assessments, or rates of all water from said waterworks
used upon said premises which may be recovered in an action against such owner,
lessee, or occupant, or against any or all of them.
(Prior Code, § 5.0306)
§ 50.14 INITIAL DEPOSITS.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to a hookup or turn-on for water rental service, a
subscriber must pay a turn-on fee, plus a deposit to be applied or held as a
retainer fee toward a contingency for non-payment of that subscriber’s water
rental account.
      (2)   Upon due notice of termination of water rental service by the
subscriber to the city, and upon full payment of water rental charges that have
accrued to such termination date, the deposit, or retainer fee, shall be
returned to the subscriber.
   (B)   (1)   Any unpaid water charges due, payable, and accrued at the
termination date of water rental service shall be deducted by the city from the
initial deposit before a refund of the deposit, or retainer fee, shall be made.
      (2)   The Common Council may waive the requirement of an initial deposit,
except for the turn-on fee, at its discretion, if the subscriber is the owner
of record of real property served by the hookup of water rental service.
   (C)   (1)   Similarly, at its discretion, the Common Council may exercise a
waiver by refunding the deposit, or retainer fee, when the subscriber or
consumer subsequently becomes the owner of record of real property served by
the water rental service.
      (2)   If such deposit has been waived, the Common Council shall reserve
the right to cancel or rescind said waiver and to demand a deposit from such
subscriber at any time after said subscriber has allowed his or her water
rental account to become delinquent.
      (3)   Upon cancellation or rescission of such waiver, water rental
service shall not be continued thereafter until said subscriber shall have paid
the deposit.
   (D)   The Common Council may from time to time, by resolution, establish the
water deposit rates and charges, including the categories of collection, as to
residential, commercial, or any other special categories or rates.
(Prior Code, § 5.0308) (Ord. 410, passed 9-2-1992; Ord. 486, passed 9-7-2010)
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 50.25 ACCESSIBILITY/READING OF METER.
   (A)   The water meter of each consumer or subscriber shall be so located on
the premises of the dwelling, household, residence, or establishment so that it
is readily and easily accessible at all times for inspections and/or monthly
meter readings. In the event that the Common Council deems a water meter
inaccessible, awkward, or unhandy for said meter readings and inspections, the
consumer or subscriber shall install a remote reading device as approved by the
Common Council to provide such accessibility. Any dwelling, household,
residence, or establishment that is sold to another owner or newly constructed
shall automatically be required to install a remote reading device.
(Prior Code, § 5.0310)
   (B)   Water meters shall be read every calendar month by a duly employed or
appointed employee, or agent, of the city, unless some contingency or condition
precludes such reading or readings.
(Prior Code, § 5.0315)
§ 50.26 WATER SERVICE LINES; CITY WATER MAINS.
   Costs assessed for water service lines and mains shall be as follows.
   (A)   Initial hookup to existing water mains. A tapping fee shall be
assessed to the property owner for each initial tap into the city water mains.
Arrangements for tapping, approval, and proper authorization by the city and
payment of said tapping fee shall proceed, be obtained, or made in advance
prior to any excavations related thereto. The fee is to cover such costs as
inspection, recording, locating, saddle, and corporation, and any other costs
related to such tapping into the city’s water mains. Tapping and saddle fees
may be reviewed by Common Council from time to time.
   (B)   Service lines. Service lines; maintenance and repairs (existing
mains).
   (C)   Property owner’s responsibility. The property owner shall be
responsible for all installation costs from the property line, across the
owner’s property, to meter and beyond, and shall include curbstop valve and
appurtenances. The owner shall furnish a remote reading device for water meter
and shall be responsible for repairs, upkeep, and replacement(s). The owner
shall be responsible for water meter repairs and replacements arising out of
the fault of the owner. The meter and remote reading device shall be installed
prior to any use of water service.
   (D)   Street restoration. It shall be the responsibility of the owner, party
installing service line, or contractor acting for the owner or installer, to
restore the streets and rights-of-way to their original condition or to the
satisfaction of the Common Council as a result of excavations(s).
   (E)   City’s responsibility. The city shall be responsible for costs of
installation between the lot line to city’s water main(s), but shall not be
responsible for filling in excavations or restoring streets as a result of
excavations(s).
   (F)   Maintenance of existing water mains. The city shall be responsible for
costs involved in maintaining city water mains and appurtenances. Damage to
water mains caused by the acts or omissions of another shall render that person
or firm responsible for costs of repairs.
   (G)   Extension of water mains. Costs involved in extending water mains to
an area or location not heretofor served by existence of water mains shall be
shared as follows:
      (1)   Party(ies) desiring or requesting extension shall be responsible
for 30% of the cost of such water main extension and engineering fee; plus the
$100 tap fee.
      (2)   City shall pay 70% of the costs involved. Ownership and control of
such extended water mains shall be vested in the city thereafter.
   (H)   City responsibility. The city has no responsibility to provide water
service, extend water mains or lines, or provide access lines to provide
service outside the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 5.0207) (Ord. 417, passed 1-5-1994)
§ 50.27 SUBSEQUENT INSTALLATIONS.
   After October 1, 1973, any multiple-unit dwellings, households, residences,
or establishments not existing at said date shall install separate meters and
remote reading devices for each separate unit, dwelling, household, residence,
or establishment.
(Prior Code, § 5.0311)
§ 50.28 VALVE MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to maintain the water
shutoff valve in proper working order and in accordance with the regulations
adopted by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.0314)
§ 50.29 CARE OF METER.
   The owner of the private property served by the city waterworks shall, as
well as the lessee or occupant of the premises, be liable to the city for any
and all losses of, or repairs to, the water meter that are deemed to be due to
the negligence or willful act of the owner, lessee, or occupant, and costs of
such losses or repairs may be recovered in an action against such owner,
lessee, or occupant, or against any or all of them.
(Prior Code, § 5.0316)
CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE
§ 50.40 TRENCHES.
   All trenches left open shall be properly guarded and barricaded in the
daytime, and at nighttime shall be further guarded by placing red lights at the
excavation, which lights shall be kept lighted from one- half hour after
sundown until one-half hour before sunrise.
(Prior Code, § 5.0204)
§ 50.41 REFILLING.
   All trenches and excavations made by any person or persons, firm, or
corporation in the streets, alleys, or public grounds, or under the sidewalks
of the city, for the purpose of making water service connections, shall be
partly filled with dirt, wet down with water, and thoroughly tamped, and such
process to be continued until all earth removed from the excavation is put back
into the trench, and leave the trench in a smooth, even condition.
(Prior Code, § 5.0205)
DEPRECIATION OF WATER UTILITIES
§ 50.55 OBJECTIVES AND PUBLIC INTEREST.
   (A)   Since it is an accepted accounting principle to recognize depreciation
as an operating expense of enterprise facilities in determining gross and net
operating incomes or losses, it is to the public interest to recognize annual
depreciation on the water treatment plant and the overhead storage facility as
a mandatory requirement in maintaining the accounting records of the city.
   (B)   In addition, it is to the best interests of the public to make orderly
provisions for total replacement, certain partial replacements, or improvements
to said facilities when needs arise in the future. The continued use of these
facilities increases the incidence of contingencies for malfunctions,
obsolescence, wear-and-tear, and/or sudden emergencies that threaten the safety
and general welfare of the residents of the city if such contingency
occurrences cannot be taken care of immediately.
   (C)   Therefore, it is the objective of this subchapter not only to
recognize annual depreciation as an operating cost or expense in the accounting
records and supporting financial statements, but also to set aside a cash
reserve water sinking fund at the rate of annual depreciation, and to require
the accumulate of such sinking fund to aggregate or accumulate, or recover, the
prepaid cost of the water treatment plant and the overhead storage reservoir by
the time they are individually fully depreciated, and to hold such funds in
reserve for contingencies.
(Prior Code, § 5.0401)
§ 50.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOK VALUE. The amount remaining after the balance in the depreciation
reserve is subtracted from the cost basis.
   COST BASIS. Refers to $252,000 for the water treatment plant and $272,000 to
the 300 gallon overhead storage reservoir.
   DEPRECIATION EXPENSE. The straight-line method of calculating depreciation
by using the cost basis divided by the estimated useful life of the water
treatment plant and the overhead storage reservoir. This is the annual
depreciation.
   DEPRECIATION RESERVE. The cash reserve water sinking fund, and shall refer
to an actual setting aside of a cash amount annually to such sinking fund to
equal the annual depreciation recognized, and to maintain and accumulate such
cash amounts annually as a total aggregate or accumulation to meet the
objectives of this subchapter. This account may be opened under another title
in the chart of accounts in the accounting records as long as the intended
purpose and function is preserved and consistent with this subchapter.
   ESTIMATED USEFUL LIFE. Refers to the following for the water treatment
plant: machinery and equipment, 20 years, and building and structures, 30
years. ESTIMATED USEFUL LIFE shall refer to thirty-three and one-third years
for the overhead storage reservoir. Commencement of ESTIMATED USEFUL LIFE shall
be either from the time the facility was placed in service or from the time
this subchapter takes effect, whichever is first. Proper adjustment should be
made for extension of the useful life for the years that such depreciation was
not recognized in the accounting records or the operating statements in the
past prior to enactment of this subchapter.
   FULLY DEPRECIATED. The situation when the book value is zero.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Costs incurred to extend the useful life beyond the original
estimates, or if such expenditures improve the efficiency, capacity, or
efficacy, or if they improve the productivity or practicality.
   MINOR REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for replacements below $1,000.
   OVERHEAD STORAGE RESERVOIR. The elevated 300 gallon water storage tank
located in Block A, and constructed in 1978 at a cost of approximately
$272,000.
   PARTIAL, BUT MAJOR REPLACEMENTS. The replacement of a component, part, or
existing item if the cost of the replacement exceeds $1,000. If the replacement
cost does not exceed $1,000, the expenditure does not qualify under this term.
   TOTAL REPLACEMENT. The replacement of another facility for a similar
purpose; and abandoning the present facility. A TOTAL REPLACEMENT may be made
when present facilities have deteriorated beyond continued use, become
obsolete, or are necessary to meet technological change.
   WATER TREATMENT PLANT. The water treatment plant facility, constructed under
revenue bonding arrangement in 1966 at an approximate cost of $252,000 and
located at the vacated south end of Ash Street, at a point at which street lies
between Block 38 and the former Block 39.
(Prior Code, § 5.0402)
§ 50.57 RECOGNIZED DEPRECIATION.
   It is hereby required that the accounting records and the operating
statements for the water utility operations recognize annual depreciation of
the water treatment plant and the overhead storage reservoir as an operating
expense. Annual depreciation shall continue until said facilities are fully
depreciated, and shall be recognized regardless of whether or not the
operations result in a profit or a loss. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to prevent the recognition of depreciation for other assets in the
accounting records and/or supporting statements.
(Prior Code, § 5.0403)
§ 50.58 DEPRECIATION RESERVE ACCOUNT.
   It is hereby required and mandated that a DEPRECIATION RESERVE account be
established, as defined in §
50.56. A cash reserve shall be set aside as a sinking fund annually. Annual
amounts so set aside in the depreciation reserve treatment plant and overhead
storage reservoir to be used as such sinking-fund purposes. Amounts already
existing in the depreciation reserve account at the time this subchapter goes
into effect shall remain in the depreciation reserve account to perpetuate the
purposes of this subchapter. The amount of cash to be retained and accumulated
in the depreciation reserve account shall continue until the water treatment
plant and the overhead storage reservoir are fully depreciated.
(Prior Code, § 5.0404)
§ 50.59 USE OF DEPRECIATION RESERVE ACCOUNT; ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Expenditures or withdrawals from the depreciation reserve account for
total replacement of either/or both the water treatment plant and/or the
overhead storage reservoir are hereby authorized as a lawful expenditure when
deemed necessary by the Common Council, but only if the following conditions
are met upon replacement: the cost basis and the estimated useful life of the
new facility must be determined; and thereafter, annual depreciation must be
recognized on the new facility in the accounting records and operating
statements. In addition, a Depreciation Reserve Sinking Fund must be
established for the new facility, with annual cash reserves set aside for
sinking fund purposes to preserve the objectives and intent of this subchapter
thereafter until the facility is fully depreciated.
   (B)   Expenditures or withdrawals from the depreciation reserve account for
PARTIAL, BUT MAJOR REPLACEMENTS, as defined in §
50.56, for either/or both the water treatment plant and/or the overhead storage
reservoir are hereby authorized as a lawful expenditure, when deemed necessary
by the Common Council, but only if the following conditions are met upon such
replacement: the cost basis and the estimated useful life of said replacements
must be determined; and annual depreciation must be recognized on the
accounting records and the operating statements thereafter until the cost basis
has been fully depreciated. In addition, an equal amount of the annual
depreciation must be set aside in the depreciation reserve account annually
until the cost basis of said replacements has been fully depreciated. This
shall be in addition to the requirements in §§
50.57 and
50.58. It shall be unlawful to purposely accumulate, amass, or assemble
replacements to circumvent the intention of this subchapter, or to do so to
exceed the $1,000 limitation, as defined in §
50.56, by wrongful means, motives, or intentions. Such actions shall constitute
a misappropriation of funds.
(Prior Code, § 5.0405) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.60 EXPENDITURES; ADJUSTMENTS.
   Expenditures or withdrawals from the DEPRECIATION RESERVE account for
improvements, as defined in §
50.56, for either/or the overhead storage reservoir are hereby authorized as a
lawful expenditure when deemed necessary by the Common Council, but only if the
following conditions are met upon such replacement.
   (A)   The cost basis and the estimated useful life of such improvements (or
the estimated time that said improvements have extended the useful life of the
asset, whichever is applicable), must be determined.
   (B)   Thereafter, annual depreciation must be determined using these factors
and the straight-line method, and recognized in the accounting records and the
operating statements. In addition, an equal amount equal to the annual
depreciation must be set aside in the depreciation reserve account annually
until the cost basis of such improvements has been fully depreciated. This
shall be in addition to the requirements in §§
50.57 and
50.58.
(Prior Code, § 5.0406)
§ 50.61 UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   No expenditure or withdrawals may be made for the Depreciation Reserve
Sinking Fund unless specifically authorized in this subchapter.
   (B)   It is hereby declared unlawful to designate, utilize, expend, or
withdraw amounts from the Depreciation Reserve Sinking Fund for any other
purposes, including the following:
      (1)   For current operating expenses of the water treatment plant or the
overhead storage reservoir;
      (2)   For any other functions, costs, or expenses of the municipal water
or sewer utility;
      (3)   For any other function, costs, or expenses for extensions,
replacements, or improvements of water mains or sewer lines;
      (4)   For any other function, costs, or expenses of the municipality,
whether routine or non-routine;
      (5)   For salaries or wages of any municipal department, including the
water and sewer departments; or
      (6)   For the purpose of borrowing funds from the account for another
purpose, or for any function not specifically authorized in §§
50.59 and
50.60.
(Prior Code, § 5.0407) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.62 INVESTMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Finance Officer and the Mayor to
invest such funds that may have accumulated in the depreciation reserve
account.
   (B)   The interest proceeds shall be applied to the depreciation reserve
sinking account to assist in meeting the annual requirement of §§
50.58 and
50.59 until such time that the balance in the depreciation reserve account has
a balance equal to the cost basis of the water treatment plant and the overhead
storage reservoir.
   (C)   Should the annual interest income exceed the annual requirement of §
50.58 to the depreciation reserve account, the excess may be applied to the
revenues of the general operations of the water utility by such authorization
by the Common Council. At such time when the balance in the depreciation
reserve account equals the cost basis of the water treatment plant and the
overhead storage reservoir collectively, the interest proceeds may be applied
to the revenues of the general operations of the water utility by authorization
of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.0408)
§ 50.63 RETENTION.
   The accumulation in the depreciation reserve account shall continue in
perpetuity to meet the objectives of this subchapter, and shall not terminate
when the water treatment plant and the overhead storage reservoir are fully
depreciated.
(Prior Code, § 5.0409)
CHAPTER 51: SEWAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Permit
   
51.03   Bond deposit
   
51.04   Inspection
   
51.05   Resolution procedure
   
51.06   Collection of sewer rentals
   
51.07   Rate classification
   
51.08   Private property liability
Sewage Regulations
   
51.20   City sewer mains; cost
   
51.21   Required use
   
51.22   Private sewage disposal
   
51.23   Use of public sewer
   
51.24   Permission to tap sewers
   
51.25   Sewer connections
   
51.26   Trap for down spout
Construction; Maintenance
   
51.40   Trenches
   
51.41   Refilling
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the
public sewer or other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Springfield, South Dakota, or any duly authorized
officials acting in its behalf.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, or dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage, or sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow, or escaping from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial, or business process, or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource carried on by any person, individual,
corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private
institution, group, agency, political subdivision, or agency thereof, or any
legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle, or outlet.
   POLLUTANTS.
      (1)   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS shall mean waste with any pollutant that is
an incompatible pollutant.
      (2)   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS shall mean waste which contains any of the
following described materials:
         (a)   Wastes which create a fire or explosion hazard in the publicly-
owned sewer system;
         (b)   Wastes which will cause corrosive structural damage to the sewer
system;
         (c)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which would cause
obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper
operation of the publicly-owned sewer system;
         (d)   Wastes which contain heat in such quantities that the influent
waters to the publicly-owned sewer system exceed 150 ° F; and
         (e)   Wastes, by themselves or in combination with other wastes, which
contain substances or materials in concentrations which exceed the publicly-
owned sewer system tolerance levels.
   RESIDENTIAL. A building under one roof designed, arranged, and used
primarily for dwelling purposes by a single family.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharged from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings, factories,
or institutions, and free from storm water, surface water, and industrial
wastes.
   SEWAGE. The water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground waters, surface waters, and storm waters as may be
present.
   SEWER SYSTEM or SEWER. The network of appurtenances used for collecting,
transporting, and pumping sewage to the sewer lagoons, or a pipe or conduit for
carrying sewage or other waste liquids, or the arrangement of devices,
structures, and equipment used for disposing of sewage.
   SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The chief operator of the waste water system for the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0500.0) (Ord. 501, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 51.02 PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation to make
connections, attach to or tap any lateral sanitary or trunk sewer in the city,
or make any excavations in the streets, alleys, or public property of the city,
or under the sidewalks of the city, for the purpose of making such connections
or attachments to any sewer, without first having obtained a permit therefor
from the Utilities Superintendent of the city, said Utilities Superintendent to
serve also as the Sewer Inspector referred to hereinafter.
(Prior Code, § 5.0501) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 BOND DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Such permit may be issued upon application of the owner of any lot,
his or her agent, or the contractor having the contract for the laying of such
service sewer, which application must be in writing setting forth the
description of the property abutting the street where such service is to be
connected, and shall state whether such service sewer runs to a private house,
factory, store, or down spout.
   (B)   Such excavation shall be accompanied by proper refilling of, and
guarding, such trenches while in the course of excavation or refilling.
(Prior Code, § 5.0502)
§ 51.04 INSPECTION.
   No service sewer trench shall be filled or sewer pipe covered until the
service sewer has been first inspected by the Utilities Superintendent of the
city, and all persons making service sewer connections shall give at least five
hours notice to the Utilities Superintendent of the time when such service
sewer will be ready for inspection, and it shall be the duty of the Utilities
Superintendent, within a reasonable time after such notice, to inspect such
service sewer and, if in his or her judgment, such service sewer is properly
connected and laid with the proper grade he or she shall give permission for
the filling of the trench, and if he or she finds such service sewer
defectively or improperly laid and connected, he or she shall order the same
taken out and re-laid in accordance with his or her directions, and when said
service sewer is completed and approved of by the Utilities Superintendent, he
or she shall give written permission to the person or owner in charge of the
property served by said service sewer to turn water therein and to use the
same, but no service sewer shall be used until such permission is first
obtained from the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 5.0504)
§ 51.05 RESOLUTION PROCEDURE.
   The Common Council shall have the right by resolution or motion at anytime
to adopt rules and regulations governing the use of sewer facilities furnished
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0602)
§ 51.06 COLLECTION OF SEWER RENTALS.
   The Municipal Finance Officer of the city shall receive the sewer rentals,
issue the receipts therefor, make entries in the books furnished for that
purpose by the city, and prepare a proper accounting to the Common Council
periodically.
(Prior Code, § 5.0604)
§ 51.07 RATE CLASSIFICATION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, multiple-units shall consist of two or
more residences, households, dwellings, or establishments located in the same
building or premises. A separate unit, for instance, engaged in doing light
housekeeping shall be considered as a unit in determining whether a multiple-
unit classification exists. The Common Council reserves the right to evaluate
the sewer rental hookups and to determine which one of the said rates, or if
necessary, what rates for special circumstances not covered by the said rate
schedules, shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 5.0605) (Ord. 423, passed 9-6-1995; Ord. 477, passed 8-6-2007;
Ord. 483, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 51.08 PRIVATE PROPERTY LIABILITY.
   The owner of private property, and which property has upon it pipes
connected with the city sewer for liquid waste disposal from said property,
shall, as well as the lessee or occupant of the premises, be liable to the city
for the sewer rents or rates accrued for services utilized on said premises
which may be recovered in an action against such owner, lessee, or occupant, or
against any or all of them.
(Prior Code, § 5.0603)
SEWAGE REGULATIONS
§ 51.20 CITY SEWER MAINS; COST.
   Costs assessed for sewer service lines and mains shall be as follows.
   (A)   Initial hookup to existing sewer mains. A tapping fee shall be
assessed to the property owner for each initial tap into the city sewer mains.
Arrangements for tapping, approval, and proper authorization by the city, and
payment of said tapping fee, shall precede, be obtained, or made in advance
prior to any excavation related thereto. (The fee is to cover such costs as
inspection, recording, locating, platting, and any other costs related to such
tapping.) The tapping fee may be reviewed by the Common Council from time to
time.
   (B)   Service line; maintenance and repairs (existing mains). It shall be
the responsibility of the property owner, or person or firm desiring sewer
service, to pay for all costs of installation to the sewer main, regardless of
its proximity or distance.
   (C)   City’s responsibility. The city has no responsibility for costs
involved or incurred by the property owner in the extension of sewer service
lines, repairs, and maintenance, or replacements from the point of the sewer
mains(s).
   (D)   Maintenance of existing sewer mains. The city shall be responsible for
costs involved in maintaining and repairing city sewer mains and appurtenances.
Damage to sewer lines or unauthorized discharges into the sewer system, caused
by acts or omissions of another, shall render that person or firm responsible
and accountable to the city for costs of repairs.
   (E)   Extensions of sewer mains.
      (1)   Costs involved in extending sewer mains to a new or undeveloped
area or location not served by the existence of sewer mains shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Party(ies) desiring or requesting an extension shall be
responsible for 30% of the cost of such sewer main extension and engineering
fees, plus a tap fee. The tapping fee may be reviewed by the Common Council
from time to time; and
         (b)   The city shall pay 70% of the costs involved.
      (2)   Ownership and control of such extended sewer main shall be vested
in the city thereafter.
   (F)   Restoration of streets and rights-of-way. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner, party installing the sewer service line or main
extension, or the contractor acting for the owner or installer to restore the
streets and rights-of-way to their original condition, and to the satisfaction
of the Common Council, as a result of excavations. This shall apply to service
lines or sewer main extensions.
   (G)   Extensions outside city limits. The city has no responsibility to
provide sewer service, extend sewer mains or lines, or provide access lines to
provide sewer service outside the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 5.0606) (Ord. 418, passed 1-5-1994)
§ 51.21 REQUIRED USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other
polluted waters except in accordance with applicable statues, rules, and
regulations of the state and the United States.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage inside the city limits.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the city, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days
after date of the official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 250 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 5.0500.1) (Ord. 501, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.22 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.21, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent.
      (2)   The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished
by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications,
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Superintendent and
approved by the Common Council.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all current recommendations of the State
Department of Environmental Protection. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the minimum separation requirements of the State Department of
Environmental Protection are not met. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any surface or subsurface watercourse.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.21, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material
approved by the Superintendent.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State Health
Officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days, and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean gravel, sand, and/or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 5.0500.2) (Ord. 501, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 51.23 USE OF PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters of wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 ° F;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 150 milligrams per liter
of fats, oils, greases, or waxes, or containing substances that may solidify;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or mineral oil, or any
other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (4)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which, either alone or
by interaction with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life, or of preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly ground; and
      (6)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, wood, metal, glass,
rags, feathers, tar, plastics, paunch manure, butchers’ offal, or any other
solid or viscous substances capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the
sewer, or other interference with the proper operation of the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 5.0500.3) (Ord. 501, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.24 PERMISSION TO TAP SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation, to
break into or tap any lateral or trunk sewer of the city, at any other place
than where a Y has been placed for connecting of service sewers, except upon a
written permission of the city, and when an opening has been made in any
lateral or trunk sewer at any other or different place than where a Y is left
for such purpose, it shall be under the supervision and direction of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 5.0503) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.25 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   A fee as determined by resolution of the Common Council shall be paid to
make a connection with the sewer, but all connections must be made in
accordance with the ordinance governing the same, and if said connection is not
sanitary, such work must be changed so as to conform with this chapter. All
sewers outside of the buildings must be laid in ground of sufficient solidity
for a proper foundation and in a trench with a uniform grade of not less than
one-eighth of an inch to the foot and one-fourth inch, if practicable.
(Prior Code, § 5.0507)
§ 51.26 TRAP FOR DOWN SPOUT.
   No water from any down spout will be permitted to pass into any sewer or
sewer connection without first having passed through a trap which has been
approved by the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 5.0508)
CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE
§ 51.40 TRENCHES.
   All trenches left open shall be properly guarded and barricaded in the
daytime, and at nighttime shall be further guarded by placing red lights at the
excavation, which lights shall be kept lighted from one- half hour after
sundown until one-half hour before sunrise.
(Prior Code, § 5.0505)
§ 51.41 REFILLING.
   All trenches and excavations made by any person or persons, firm, or
corporation, in the streets, alleys, or public grounds, or under the sidewalks
of the city, for the purpose of making service sewer connections, shall be
partly filled with dirt, wet down with water, and thoroughly tamped, and such
process to be continued until all earth removed from the excavation is put back
into the trench, and leave the trench in a smooth, even, and firm condition.
(Prior Code, § 5.0506)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Collection periods
   
52.03   Fees
   
52.04   Termination of services
Garbage Collection; Regulations
   
52.15   Burning garbage
   
52.16   Content removal; dumping
   
52.17   Standard quantity of collection
   
52.18   Garbage cans
   
52.19   Removal of garbage
   
52.20   Manure and dead animals
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. A person licensed to haul garbage, and a collector’s license
confers the right to haul both REFUSE and GARBAGE, as herein defined.      
   GARBAGE. Food waste from kitchens, shops, and stores, including peelings,
vegetable tops, waste from meats, fish, and poultry, and such leftovers as are
not fit for keeping and using, spoiled fruits, vegetables, and meats, and other
perishable wastes that attend the preparation, use, cooking, or the dealing in
or storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruits, or vegetables.
   REFUSE. All other refuse matters other than GARBAGE, as herein defined, such
as ashes, manure, hay, straw, broken crockery, glassware, tin cans, and
anything in the line of waste or castaway material that may be or become
injurious to the person or deleterious to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 4.0301)
§ 52.02 COLLECTION PERIODS.
   A person having a license to collect garbage and refuse shall call for, and
pickup, garbage and/or refuse at least once a week during the months of April,
May, June, July, August, September, and October of each year, and at least once
every two weeks between November 1 and April 1 next ensuing, if the weather
prevents weekly pickups at each place where garbage accumulates and more often
if the Mayor or Board of Health shall deem it necessary. All garbage and refuse
so collected shall be conveyed and disposed of, to and at such place, and in
such manner as herein provided. In the event of biweekly pickups, only a two-
thirds rate shall be charged.
(Prior Code, § 4.0304)
§ 52.03 FEES.
   (A)   The maximum fees which shall be charged by collectors for the
collection of a standard, routine, or normal quantity of residential and/or
commercial business garbage and refuse from the respective service
classifications herein set forth shall be as follows.
      (1)   Single person household. One pickup per week; rate, charge, and/or
fee to be established by the Common Council from time to time by resolution.
      (2)   Two or more person household. One pickup per week; rate, charge,
and/or fee to be established by the Common Council from time to time by
resolution.
      (3)   Commercial business establishments. Individual negotiations with
the licensed contractor.
      (4)   Manufacturing and industrial plants. As negotiated between such
licensed collector and manufacturing and industrial plant, and depending upon
volume and type of garbage and refuse hauled.
      (5)   Special (vacation residential) and emergency pickups. Individual
negotiations with the licensed collector.
   (B)   The monthly service fees, as determined by the collector, shall be the
normal course of the operation as part of the city’s Water Department. Said
service charge for an occupied active residential household shall, however, be
billed separately by the garbage collector at his or her fees.
   (C)   (1)   Delinquent payment on occupied premises; water. If such charge
by the collector is not paid when due, set by the collector, the water service
to the occupied premises may be terminated by the city in such the manner as
provided for in the event for delinquent water and sewer charges, and such
water service shall not be restored until the charge in question has been paid
in full, together with any penalty otherwise provided by this chapter.
      (2)   Occupied premises. Any place of abode, dwelling, or active
residential household that is occupied that has water and sewer services will
automatically receive garbage services by said collector. It will be required
to utilize the garbage services for the city contracted hauler. The property
owner will receive a garbage utility bill from the collector whether the
property owner utilizes the service or not. It is the responsibility of the
property owner to pay said bill, or uncollected garbage bills will result in
the disconnection of water services. In the result of disconnection of water
service, a reconnect charge for service will be charged to the property owner’s
water and sewer bill.
   (D)   In addition to fees, any applicable state and/or municipal sales taxes
as required by state statutes will be added.
   (E)   A collector may assess a reasonable additional fee for collection of
garbage and refuse in excess of the standard, routine, or normal quantity of
residential or commercial business establishments’ garbage and refuse, and may
assess a reasonable additional fee in the event such collector is required to
carry garbage, refuse, or both garbage and refuse a distance of more than 80
feet to the nearest point of reasonable vehicle access for pickup purposes.
   (F)   All fees assessed by the collector in addition to the fee for the
standard quantity of residential and/or commercial business garbage and refuse
shall be separately set forth on the collector’s billing and a complete
explanation shall be provided therefor.
   (G)   Each residential unit in a mobile home park shall be classified as a
single apartment for the purpose of this chapter.
   (H)   Upon request of a collector, the owner or manager of an apartment
house or mobile home park containing in excess of two living units may, at said
owner’s or manager’s option consent, to collect the fees herein set forth from
his or her tenants and remit the same to said collector in one sum.
(Ord. 404, passed 5-2-1990; Ord. 409, passed 8-5-1992; Ord. 415, passed 10-6-
1993; Ord. 421, passed 6-7-1995; Ord. 435, passed 10-1-1997; Ord. 470, passed
12-5-2006; Ord. 491, passed 4-4-2011; Ord. 511, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 52.04 TERMINATION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   Collection by a collector may be discontinued for a non-payment of
service fees for a period of 60 days after billing, or for repeated violation
of the provisions of this chapter or the regulations or decisions of the
Garbage Inspector.
   (B)   The collector shall notify the householder, occupant business
establishment, or industrial plant of discontinuance by United States mail,
setting forth each reason for such discontinuance, and at the time of said
notification shall mail a copy of such notice to the Garbage Inspector.
   (C)   A collector may, if he or she deems it advisable, require a deposit
from a householder, occupant, business establishment, or industrial plant equal
to the fees for collection of a standard, routine, or normal quantity of
residential or commercial business establishment garbage and refuse for the
service classification contracted for a period of five months to secure payment
for collection services rendered. Such deposit shall be deposited by the
collector in a separate account denominated “trust account” in a banking
institution, and shall remain so deposited until termination of collection
service.
   (D)   Upon termination of the collection service, such collector shall
withdraw said deposit, apply the same in satisfaction of any unpaid fees for
collection services rendered, and remit the remaining portion, if any, to the
householder, occupant, business establishment, or industrial plant depositing
the same.
(Prior Code, § 4.0310)
GARBAGE COLLECTION; REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 BURNING GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage or refuse within the
limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.0302) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 CONTENT REMOVAL; DUMPING.
   (A)   Only a licensed garbage collector shall be permitted to clean out and
haul away the contents of any privy vault or cesspool in the city, and such
contents shall be disposed of only at the solid waste disposal landfill site or
other location specifically so designated by the Common Council, and there in
such manner as directed by the Common Council, the operators and/or employees
of the solid waste disposal landfill, employees of the city, or the Board of
Health.
(Prior Code, § 4.0306)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to unload, or deposit, garbage or refuse, the
latter to include dead animals and the contents of privy vaults and cesspools,
hauled from any premises in the city at any other place than at the solid waste
disposal landfill site so designated, or other location specifically so
designated by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.0307) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 STANDARD QUANTITY OF COLLECTION.
   For the purposes of collection by a collector, the standard, routine, or
normal quantity of residential or commercial business establishment shall be:
   (A)   Garbage, refuse, and mixed garbage and refuse, contained within not
more than four garbage cans as herein provided; and
   (B)   Additional refuse only amounting to not more than eight bushel baskets
full, or equivalent volume.
(Prior Code, § 4.0309)
§ 52.18 GARBAGE CANS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every householder, occupant, business
establishment, or industrial plant occupying any building or premises in the
city, and the proprietor of any restaurant, café, boarding house, eating house,
retirement home, or commission house, to place and deposit their garbage in a
suitable watertight can, with handles, of not more than 30 gallons capacity and
with a tight cover, said can and cover to be provided at his or her expense,
and to place such a receptacle near the alley in the rear of their premises, or
at some other place reasonably accessible to the collector of garbage,
provided, that where the owner or lessor of the premises rents a portion
thereof to two or more families or occupants, he or she shall provide a
suitable receptacle for garbage, as provided herein, to be used by all such
tenants or occupants, and be placed on such portion of the premises as not to
create a nuisance. It shall be the power of the Garbage Inspector to plan and
approve garbage and/or refuse storage containers or areas, awaiting regular
pickup, within the meaning and purpose of this section, when the utilization of
30 gallon containers, as referred to above, is not feasible.
   (B)   For the purposes of collection, refuse shall be placed in garbage
cans, as herein provided for garbage, or placed in containers or packages
suitable to enable such refuse to be easily and quickly picked up by the
collector. Lumber, tree limbs, or similar materials shall be reduced to not
more than five feet in length and bundled to facilitate handling by the
collector. Such containers, packages, or bundles shall be placed near the alley
in the rear of the premises with any garbage cans, or at some other place
reasonably accessible to the collector.
   (C)   For the purposes of collection, the gross weight of any can,
container, package, or bundle, and the garbage, refuse, or garbage and refuse
contained therein shall not weigh in excess of 80 pounds. A collector shall not
be required to empty or remove any such can, container, package, or bundle, the
gross weight of which is in excess of 80 pounds, and shall as soon as
practicable notify the householder, occupant, business establishment, or
industrial plant to cause the weight of any such container or unit to be
reduced below a gross weight of 80 pounds.
(Prior Code, § 4.0311)
§ 52.19 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   It is hereby made the duty of every occupant of any dwelling house,
shop business establishment, storeroom, office, industrial plant, or other
building or premises, to remove or cause to be removed by the properly-licensed
collector, all garbage, refuse, or other and similar material placed,
collected, or deposited by him or her, and to pay or cause to be paid to the
licensed collector for such removal legal fees as by this chapter prescribed.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to throw or
deposit or cause, permit, authorize, or allow to be thrown or deposited upon
any street any garbage or refuse, or to cause, allow, or permit to be thrown or
to remain upon his or her premises, either owned, rented or occupied, any such
garbage or refuse as to cause or create a nuisance or any offense.
(Prior Code, § 4.0315)
§ 52.20 MANURE AND DEAD ANIMALS.
   It is hereby made the duty of all property owners and tenants occupying
premises upon which manure of any kind accumulates, to provide cans, boxes, or
bins, or other suitable receptacles therefore, and the receptacles shall be
emptied promptly and completely at all times as may be necessary to prevent the
same from becoming injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or welfare of
individuals or the public. Dead animals are not permitted to be buried within
the city limits, except in ground expressly provided therefore by the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.0314)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any licensed garbage collector violating the terms and conditions of
this chapter by charging fees in excess of those herein above provided for the
services rendered shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to license
revocation.
   (B)   Failure of any individual or group to comply with this chapter shall
render such individual or group guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 4.0315)
(Ord. 511, passed 10-3-2016)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Highway defined
   
70.03   Transit subject to regulation
   
70.04   Responsibility of parents and ward guardians
   
70.05   Truck routes
   
70.06   Obstructions on public right-of-way
   
70.07   Injury to streets; crossings
Operation of Motor Vehicles
   
70.20   Driving on the right
   
70.21   Overtaking
   
70.22   Following too closely
   
70.23   Following fire trucks
   
70.24   Vehicles forbidden on sidewalk
   
70.25   Brakes, lights, and horn
   
70.26   License plates
   
70.27   License or permit required
   
70.28   Turning and required signals
   
70.29   Signals by hand; signal device
   
70.30   Right-of-way rule; exceptions
   
70.31   Racing prohibited
   
70.32   Mufflers
   
70.33   Motorcycles
   
70.34   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
70.35   Stop at intersections
   
70.36   Stop signs; traffic signs
   
70.37   Restrictions regarding speed
   
70.38   Reckless driving
   
70.39   Careless driving
   
70.40   Driving while intoxicated
   
70.41   Exhibition driving
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the fire department (fire patrol),
police vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal
departments or public service corporations as are designated or authorized by
the Common Council or chief of a department.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway when 50% or more of
the frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by
buildings used for business.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation of curb and property lines at intersections, or any other portion
of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   INTERSECTIONS. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more streets or
highways which join one another at an angle whether or not one such street or
highway crosses the other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every VEHICLE, as herein defined, which is self-propelled.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon a
roadway or street otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while
actually engaged in, loading or unloading, or in obedience to traffic
regulations or traffic signs or signals.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway not comprising a
Business District when the frontage of such highway for a distance of 300 feet
or more is mainly occupied by dwellings and buildings in use for business.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported, or drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 7.0101)
§ 70.02 HIGHWAY DEFINED.
   Whenever the term HIGHWAY is used herein, the name shall be construed to
include streets.
(Prior Code, § 7.0115)
§ 70.03 TRANSIT SUBJECT TO REGULATION.
   (A)   Persons propelling push carts or riding bicycles or animals shall obey
traffic regulations.
   (B)   Any person propelling any push cart or riding a bicycle, motorcycle,
motorbikes, or an animal upon a roadway, and every person driving any animal,
shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter applicable to the operator
of any vehicle, except those provisions of this chapter with reference to the
equipment of vehicles, and except those provisions which by their very nature
can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 7.0102)
§ 70.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS AND WARD GUARDIANS.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of §
70.03 and this section, as well as §
72.25.
(Prior Code, § 7.0103) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The Common Council may, by resolution, designate such truck routes
within the city as they deem advisable and necessary.
(Prior Code, § 7.0304)
   (B)   The Common Council is hereby empowered and/or authorized to designate,
specify, and/or identify by resolution:
      (1)   (a)   Certain streets within the city that are closed to traffic,
passage, driving, pulling, or use by trucks, heavy construction, agricultural,
industrial, business, or other vehicles or conveyances.
         (b)   Upon such designation by the Council, such vehicles or
conveyances are prohibited from driving on or utilizing such streets so
designated by resolution;
      (2)   Certain exceptions to this section, based upon necessity,
impossibility, or special situations, and/or to designate or specify routes for
such exceptions to apply to avoid undue utilization of streets so closed to
trucks, heavy construction, agricultural, industrial, business, or other
vehicles or conveyances; and
      (3)   Truck routes, or other routes for vehicles or conveyances referred
to in this section, to utilize for passage to locations.
(Prior Code, § 10.0503)
§ 70.06 OBSTRUCTIONS ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any public highway, street,
or alley or to make, or cause to be made, any structure, enclosure, fence,
cellar, door, stairway, or building encroaching in or in part of any such
street, alley, or sidewalk within the city without having first obtained
written permission to do so from the Common Council, and a record of such
permission shall have been made in the minutes of said city.
(Prior Code, § 10.0504) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 INJURY TO STREETS; CROSSINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, either the owner or in charge of any
steam or power engine, tractor, thresher, or vehicle of any kind to cross, or
attempt to cross, over any bridge or culvert, or to drive on any pavement or
highway in the city, which vehicle shall have metal mud lugs attached to its
wheels in such a manner as to injure or destroy such city property.
(Prior Code, § 10.0502) Penalty, see §
70.99
OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 70.20 DRIVING ON THE RIGHT.
   All persons operating, using, or driving any vehicle or vehicles upon any of
the streets of the city shall keep to the right-hand side of the center of the
street, except as herein provided, and no vehicle shall be turned around on any
street except in the square formed by the intersections thereof with another
street.
(Prior Code, § 7.0201) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 OVERTAKING.
   The operator of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass at a safe distance to the left thereof, but only when
such left side is clearly visible and is free from oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be made in
safety and shall not cut in front of the overtaken vehicle until safely clear
of same.
(Prior Code, § 7.0202) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard to the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon, and condition of, the highway.
(Prior Code, § 7.0203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 FOLLOWING FIRE TRUCKS.
   Following fire trucks within 300 feet of any fire being attended by the City
Fire Department is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7.0204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 VEHICLES FORBIDDEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except
at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 7.0205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 BRAKES, LIGHTS, AND HORN.
   Every motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public highways of the city
shall be provided with adequate brakes in good working order sufficient to
control such motor vehicle at all times when the same is in use, and a suitable
and adequate bell, horn, or other device for signaling, and shall, during the
period of one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, display
lighted lamps as required by the statutes of the state or acts amendatory
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7.0206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 LICENSE PLATES.
   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle within the city without
having conspicuously displayed thereon number plate or plates, as required by
the statutes of the state, securely fastened, and shall be kept free from mud,
dirt, or other obstruction so that said number plate or plates shall be clearly
legible by other persons upon said highway.
(Prior Code, § 7.0207) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive or operate, upon any of the streets or highways within
the city, any motor vehicle without first having secured and having in his or
her possession a permit/license to do so issued by the state under the
provisions of the statutes of the state, or any acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7.0208) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28 TURNING AND REQUIRED SIGNALS.
   (A)   At any intersection where there is displayed an official traffic sign
displaying the words “No U Turn,” it shall be unlawful for the operator of any
vehicle to turn such vehicle at the intersection in a complete circle or so as
to proceed in the opposite direction.
   (B)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway, or turn a vehicle to enter a private
road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move
right or left upon a roadway unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety.
   (C)   No person shall turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal
in the manner herein provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by
such movements.
   (D)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during no less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (E)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
rear when there is opportunity to give such signal.
(Prior Code, § 7.0213) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.29 SIGNALS BY HAND; SIGNAL DEVICE.
   (A)   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either
by the hand or signal device, but when a vehicle is so constructed or loaded
that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the front and rear of
said vehicle, then said signals must be given by such a lamp or lamps, or
signal device.
(Prior Code, § 7.0214)
   (B)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from
the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, § 7.0215)
§ 70.30 RIGHT-OF-WAY RULE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Subject to the exceptions stated in division (B) below, the right-of-
way rule, as between vehicles at intersections, is hereby declared as follows.
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to a vehicle which has fully entered the intersection.
      (2)   When two vehicles approach an intersection at approximately the
same time, the operator of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way
to the vehicle on the right.
      (3)   The operator of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall
forfeit any right-of-way which he or she may otherwise have hereunder.
      (4)   The operator of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way when the same is posted by a yield or yield the right-of-way
sign.
(Prior Code, § 7.0216)
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle entering a public street shall yield the
right-of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon
official business and the operators therefor sound an audible signal, be it
bell, siren, or exhaust whistle.This provision shall not relieve the operator
of an emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for safety of
all persons using the street, nor shall it protect the operator of any such
vehicle from the consequences of an arbitrary exercise of such right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 7.0217) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 RACING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator or driver of any vehicle to race with
any other vehicle on said streets or thoroughfares of the city, or to engage in
any contest of speed with any other vehicle, or the driver thereof, on said
streets and thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 7.0218) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 MUFFLERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle or motorcycle on a highway
within the city unless such motor vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise
and annoying smoke.
   (B)   The use of Smitty or Hollywood mufflers, or other devices of like
character which make loud noises or explosions, are hereby declared unlawful,
and it shall be unlawful to use a muffler cutout on any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.0301) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   MOTORCYCLE includes motorcycles, motorbikes, and bicycles with a motor
attached.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a motorcycle to operate such
motorcycle on the highways, streets, alleys, or public grounds in the city
unless such operator has been certified that he or she is qualified to operate
such motorcycle, and that he or she must wear a protective helmet as approved
by the state laws, and that such motorcycle shall at all times be equipped with
an adequate muffler in constant operation and properly maintained to prevent
any excessive or unusual noise.
(Prior Code, § 7.0306) Penalty, §
70.99
§ 70.34 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or garage shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway.
(Prior Code, § 7.0302) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 STOP AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The Common Council, by resolution, is hereby authorized to place and
maintain, or cause to be placed and maintained, at the intersection of any
street or alley with any other street or alley where, in their discretion,
traffic conditions justify such action, appropriate signs bearing the word
“Stop,” which said signs shall be located in such a manner and be of such a
size as to be clearly legible from a distance of 100 feet along said street or
alley intersecting such stop street, and shall illuminate at night or be placed
so as to be illuminated by street lights or the headlights of approaching motor
vehicles, and the operator of any other conveyance traversing such street upon
which the “Stop” sign has been erected shall bring such vehicle to a full stop
at a place within 15 feet of the nearest line of the intersection of said
streets, or street and alley.
(Prior Code, § 7.0303)
§ 70.36 STOP SIGNS; TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disobey any traffic sign or posting
where such sign or posting is placed by authority of the Common Council. Be it
expressly provided hereby that said Common Council shall be empowered to post
such signs or postings as are necessary for the conduct of safe traffic upon
the streets and thoroughfares of the city. The duration or permanency of such
posting shall be subject to the discretion of the Common Council once the
posting is so made by the Common Council under this authority.
(Prior Code, § 7.0305) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SPEED.
   Any person driving a vehicle on a street or highway shall drive the same at
a careful and prudent speed not greater than is reasonable and proper, having
due regard to the traffic, surface, and width of the street or highway, and to
any other conditions existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway or street at such a speed as to endanger the life, limb, or property of
any person.
(Prior Code, § 7.0601)
§ 70.38 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a highway carelessly and heedlessly
in disregard to the rights or safety of others, or without due caution and
circumspection, and at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger, or be likely
to endanger, any person or property, shall be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 7.0209) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a vehicle within the city carelessly in disregard to
the width, grade, curves, corners, conditions, or customary usage of the
streets or highways, or whose temporary inadvertence to the operation of the
vehicle causes, or is likely to cause, damage to any person or property, shall
be guilty of careless driving.
(Prior Code, § 7.0210) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.40 DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate, or attempt to drive
or operate, any motor vehicle upon any of the public streets, alleys, or public
grounds of the city while such person is in an intoxicated or drunken
condition, or under the influence of intoxicating liquor, or any drug as
defined by laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 7.0211) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.41 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a vehicle within the city in such a manner that
creates or causes unnecessary engine noise, any tire squeal, skid, or slide
upon acceleration or stopping, or that simulates a temporary race, or that
causes the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway, shall be guilty of
exhibition driving.
(Prior Code, § 7.0212) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
70.05, or the resolution relating thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding $100 for each and/or every
offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.0503)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.07 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and in addition thereto, shall be
liable to the city for all damages incurred thereby.
(Prior Code, § 10.0502)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking prohibited in certain places
   
71.02   Parallel parking
   
71.03   Double parking
   
71.04   Restricted parking signs
   
71.05   Twenty-four hour parking
§ 71.01 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand, or park
such vehicle on any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer:
   (A)   Within an intersection;
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Within ten feet of the inside boundary line of the sidewalk, or if no
sidewalk is in place, within 25 feet of the intersecting roadway, except that
this provision shall not apply to alleys;
   (D)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   In front of a private driveway;
   (F)   On a sidewalk; and/or
   (G)   Alongside or opposite any set excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7.0401) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 PARALLEL PARKING.
   No vehicle shall be parked on any designated street, except such vehicle be
parked parallel to the curb headed in the direction of traffic, with the curb
side wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the curb and not closer than
four feet to any other vehicle, front or rear, except upon those streets
designated or marked for angle or diagonal parking. A vehicle shall be parked
at an angle to the curb indicated by marks or signs with the front wheel
touching the curb at approximately a 45 degree angle.
(Prior Code, § 7.0402)
§ 71.03 DOUBLE PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand, or park
such vehicle on the roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge of the curb of a street except while temporarily engaged in the loading or
unloading of passengers or materials.
(Prior Code, § 7.0403) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 RESTRICTED PARKING SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police, with the approval of the Council, is hereby authorized
to limit or prohibit parking in such places and at such times as in his or her,
and its discretion is necessary by reason of traffic or other local conditions,
and to place at such restricted or limited spaces appropriate signs indicating
such restrictions or limitations, and it shall be unlawful for any vehicle to
park in such restricted or limited area contrary to the regulations as
indicated by said signs.
(Prior Code, § 7.0405) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 TWENTY-FOUR HOUR PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or the owner of a vehicle to
permit to be parked, any vehicle for a longer period than 24 hours at one time
upon the streets of the city, except when such parking be at the residence of
said owner of a vehicle and not otherwise prohibited from parking on said
street.
(Prior Code, § 7.0406) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
72.01   Regulations on golf carts
Bicycles
   
72.15   Definition
   
72.16   Applicability
   
72.17   Riding a bike
   
72.18   Clinging to vehicles
   
72.19   Riding in a group
   
72.20   Carrying articles
   
72.21   Parking
   
72.22   Riding on sidewalks
   
72.23   Lamps and reflectors
   
72.24   Brakes
   
72.25   Impounding bicycles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.01 REGULATIONS ON GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the term GOLF CART means a four-
wheeled vehicle originally and specifically designed and intended to transport
one or more individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of
golf on a golf course.
   (B)   The city hereby permits the use of golf carts on the municipal
streets, subject to the following.
      (1)   The person operating the golf cart shall hold a valid DRIVER’S
LICENSE, as defined by SDCL § 32-12-1.
      (2)   The person operating the golf cart shall obtain a permit from the
city’s Municipal Finance Office to operate the golf cart on municipal streets
and highways within its platted boundaries. The fee for said permit shall be
$20. Any established golf cart business shall be exempt from permit fee. Proof
of insurance shall be required for all permits, as provided in SDCL§§ 32-14-13,
32-14-14, and 32-14-16. Fees may be reviewed by the Common Council form time to
time and updated by resolution.
      (3)   The golf cart shall be equipped with lighted front and rear lamps
when operating upon city streets during the period from sunset to sunrise, and
at any other time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly
discernible any person on the street at a distance of 200 feet ahead, in
accordance with SDCL § 32-17-4.
      (4)   The golf cart shall be equipped with a horn in good working order
capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions for a distance of at
least 200 feet as provided in SDCL § 32-15-10.
      (5)   The golf cart shall be equipped with a mirror so located as to
reflect to the driver a view of the highway for a distance of at least 200 feet
to the rear of the cart as provided in SDCL§ 32-15-8.
      (6)   No parking on sidewalks or walkways within the city.
      (7)   The operator of said vehicle and all occupants must be seated at
all times. There cannot be more people in, or on, said vehicle than the vehicle
seating capacity.
(Ord. 522, passed 5-8-2019)
BICYCLES
§ 72.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two or more tandem wheels either of which is over ten inches in
diameter.
(Prior Code, § 7.0104)
§ 72.16 APPLICABILITY.
   Every person operating a bicycle within the city shall be subject to the
traffic regulations of the city applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as to those which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 7.0105)
§ 72.17 RIDING A BIKE.
   (A)   A person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride
the permanent and regular seat thereto, nor carry any other person upon such
bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon, nor shall
any person ride upon a bicycle other than as above authorized.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designated and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 7.0106) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle moving upon a street or thoroughfare in the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0107) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 RIDING IN A GROUP.
   Persons operating bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except upon paths or parts of the roadway set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 7.0108) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping both hands upon the handle bars.
(Prior Code, § 7.0109) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon a sidewalk rack to support the bicycle, or against a
building or at a curb, in such manner as to afford the least obstruction to
pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7.0110) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.0111) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 LAMPS AND REFLECTORS.
   Every bicycle, when in use at night, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front exhibiting a headlight visible from a distance of at least 100 feet in
front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a light visible from a distance of
100 feet to the rear, except that an approved red reflector meeting the minimum
requirements of SDCL § 32-17-12 may be used in lieu thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7.0112)
§ 72.24 BRAKES.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a proper braking system to enable the
operator thereof to stop properly when necessary, and such braking system shall
be maintained in proper operating condition.
(Prior Code, § 7.0113)
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDING BICYCLES.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter shall have his or her bicycle impounded for a period not exceeding
30 days for any one offense.
(Prior Code, § 7.0114)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure to abide by §
72.01 shall be deemed a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Ord. 522, passed 5-8-2019)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to exceed any of the following limitations:
   (A)   Fifteen miles an hour when passing schools or school grounds during
recess, or while children are going to or leaving school during opening or
closing hours, and the portion of Eight Street commonly know as Main Street or
the business district, and passing churches during services;
   (B)   Fifteen miles an hour when approaching, within 50 feet and in
traversing an intersection or highway when the driver’s view is obstructed. A
driver’s view shall be deemed to be obstructed when, at any time during the
last 50 feet of his or her approach to such intersection, he or she does not
have a clear and uninterrupted view of such intersection, and of the traffic
upon all of the highways entering such intersection, for a distance of 200 feet
from such intersection;
   (C)   Twenty-five miles an hour under all conditions, or as posted on
appropriate signs; and
   (D)   Appropriate signs indicating the maximum speed permissible shall be
placed at reasonable intervals in each of the said restrictive zones.
(Prior Code, § 7.0602) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking in Business District
SCHEDULE I. PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or operator of any truck, tractor,
trailer, semi-tractor/trailer, pickup truck, van, recreation vehicle, or other
vehicle to park at any time on the portion of Eighth Street that is commonly
referred to as Main Street or the Business District, except and hereinafter
provided if:
      (1)   The box and/or accessory, including all appurtenances, of such
vehicle exceeds eight feet in length;
      (2)   The over-all length, including all appurtenances, of such vehicle
exceeds 20 feet in length; or
      (3)   The over-all height, including all appurtenances, of such vehicle
exceeds eight feet in height measured from the ground to the highest point or
portion thereof.
   (B)   The following exception is herein provided for: Temporary parking may
be allowed for any of the above mentioned vehicles in division (A) in the above
designated area while the operator of any such mentioned vehicle is delivering
or receiving merchandise from any business establishment in such area, when
such merchandise, on account of its bulkage or quantity, cannot be delivered or
received by such operator through and from the rear alley of such business or
establishment.
(Prior Code, § 7.0404) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION; LEISURE
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Nuisances declared
   
90.002   Notice to abate nuisances
   
90.003   Abatement without notice
   
90.004   Offensive materials prohibited
   
90.005   Common nuisances
   
90.006   Offensive substances
   
90.007   Removal of dead animals
Weeds and Noxious Vegetation
   
90.020   Noxious weeds and plants
   
90.021   Duty of occupant
   
90.022   Expenses charged to owner
   
90.023   Trees impeding public ways
   
90.024   Proximity to public ways
   
90.025   Obstruction of intersections
Abandoned Buildings
   
90.040   Conditions, defects of buildings/structures
   
90.041   Enforcement
   
90.042   Notices and orders
   
90.043   Required action
   
90.044   Service, notice of order
   
90.045   Method of service
   
90.046   Standards of repair; demolition; vacation; removal
   
90.047   Appeals
   
90.048   Enforcement of order
   
90.049   Post inspection
   
90.050   Recovery of costs of repairs; demolition
Nuisance Vehicles
   
90.065   Objectives and declaration of public interest
   
90.066   Definitions
   
90.067   Storing abandoned vehicles
   
90.068   Exceptions
   
90.069   Responsibility for removal
   
90.070   Enforcement; administrative proceedings
   
90.071   Litter and littering
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   The commission of each and every one of the acts prohibited in this chapter,
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (A)   Privies, cesspools, and septic tanks. No person shall erect,
construct, install, or maintain any privy, cesspool, or septic tank within 300
feet of any sewer line or 20 feet of any street or dwelling within the
corporate limits of the city, nor maintain within said city limits any privy,
cesspool, or septic tank that emits a foul or offensive odor.
   (B)   Manure.
      (1)   No person shall deposit, or permit to be deposited, dropped, or
thrown in or upon any alley, street, or lot within the city, any manure which
shall be permitted to remain so deposited for a period of seven days, at any
time; and each and every such deposit shall be removed entirely in every seven
days during such time.
      (2)   The provisions of this section apply whether or not such manure is
deposited by animals (including dogs), allowed to accumulate, or hauled in for
fertilization purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4.0201)
§ 90.002 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCES.
   It is hereby made the duty of the Chief of Police of the city, either on
personal knowledge or upon receipt of notice of the existence of any nuisance
within the city mentioned in this chapter, to forthwith give notice in writing
to the person or persons keeping, maintaining, or permitting such nuisances, or
to the person or persons owing, occupying, or having control or possession of
the premises where such nuisance is kept, maintained, or permitted, to
immediately abate the same, and if such nuisance is not abated within 24 hours
after the service of such notice, it shall be the duty of said officer to
forthwith abate and remove the same at the expense of the city and for the
expenses so incurred. Thereafter, the city may recover such expenses by a civil
action for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4.0206)
§ 90.003 ABATEMENT WITHOUT NOTICE.
   Whenever any of the premises, lots, lands, buildings, or places mentioned or
referred to in this chapter shall be unoccupied and the owner thereof is a non-
resident of the city, or cannot, after due diligence, be found, the said Chief
of Police may proceed as in §
90.002 provided without giving the notice required under this chapter, and
recovery and expenses and costs therefor may be had as in other cases of
nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 4.0208)
§ 90.004 OFFENSIVE MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to throw or
deposit in any of the streets, avenues, alleys, or public grounds of the city
any offal, dead, or decaying animals, grass clippings or leaves, fruits or
vegetable matter, manure, garbage, glass, nails, tacks, tin cans, or any matter
or materials offensive to the public, or liable to cause injury to persons or
vehicles, in the lawful use of such streets, avenues, alleys, or public
grounds.
(Prior Code, § 7.0801) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 COMMON NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act or conduct any business,
or keep any house, room, or building in the city for any purpose which, by act
of the legislative assembly of the state or ordinance of this city, is declared
to be a nuisance or an offense against public peace, public health, public
safety, or public morals as defined in state law and all such nuisances or
offenses are declared a misdemeanor under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.0601) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall throw, drop, or deposit or leave any dead carcass, or
portion thereof, of any chicken, animal, or other offensive or unwholesome
substance upon any public street, alley, or other public or private ground of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.0204) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.007 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No occupant of any building or lot in the city shall permit any dead
chickens, animals, or other offensive or unwholesome substances whatsoever to
remain in such building or upon such lot for a period exceeding 24 hours, nor
shall any person permit any such dead chickens, animals, or other unwholesome
substance to remain in or upon any lot or tenement, alley, or street.
(Prior Code, § 4.0205)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation having dead
chickens, dogs, cats, or animals of any description on or about his or her
premises, to dispose of the same in any manner or form other than burial, or
removal from the city limits. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to remove any such dead chicken, dog, cat, or animal from the place
where the same may be found dead other than for the purpose of destruction by
burial or removal from the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 7.0802)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul or transport, or cause to
be hauled or transported, any dead animals which have died or been killed
outside of, and beyond, the city limits, except those streets and avenues
designated as state highways.
(Prior Code, § 4.0316) Penalty, see §
90.999
WEEDS AND NOXIOUS VEGETATION
§ 90.020 NOXIOUS WEEDS AND PLANTS.
   The following weeds and plants are hereby declared to be noxious weeds, and
are hereby declared to be nuisances, to-wit: rag weed, thistles of any kind,
wild sunflower, goldenrod, cocklebur, sandbur, wild oats, wild mustard, wild
lettuce, wild salsify, pig weed, wild firebush, creeping jenny, and all other
useless weeds suffered or allowed to grow during the growing season.
(Prior Code, § 4.0601)
§ 90.021 DUTY OF OCCUPANT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the occupant, person in charge, or the owner
of any lot or parcel of land in the city to keep such lot or parcel free from
any noxious vegetation and particularly as to the weeds and plants mentioned in
§
90.020, and to cut, or cause to be cut, such noxious vegetation at such time or
times, as may be necessary to prohibit its growth and bearing seed.
   (B)   The Street Superintendent, street maintenance workers, or any other
person in charge of streets and alleys of the city, shall, in like manner,
destroy all such weeds being and growing in the streets and alleys of the city.
The Common Council shall annually cause notice to be given of the time, or
times, for the destruction of such weeds.
(Prior Code, § 4.0602)
§ 90.022 EXPENSES CHARGED TO OWNER.
   If the owner, occupant, or person in charge of any lot or lots shall fail or
neglect to destroy any such weeds or noxious vegetation as aforesaid, growing
upon any such lot or lots, the Street Superintendent or street maintenance
worker, or some other person under his or her direction, shall, within ten days
after the publication of the notice provided for in §
90.021, cause the work to be done and report the expense thereof to the Common
Council for special assessment against the property benefitted.
(Prior Code, § 4.0603)
§ 90.023 TREES IMPEDING PUBLIC WAYS.
   The owner, occupant, or person in charge of any premises abutting upon any
street, road, or alley shall keep all trees upon the premises and the center of
the adjoining streets so trimmed that no bough or branch thereof shall hang
lower than eight feet above the surface of the street, road, alley, or sidewalk
thereon.
(Prior Code, § 4.0604)
§ 90.024 PROXIMITY TO PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   The owner, occupant, or person in charge of any premises abutting upon
any street, road, or alley shall keep mowed or cut down all weeds and grass
that may grow between the boundary line of the premises and the center of the
adjoining street, road, or alley.
   (B)   Provisions described in §§
90.021 and
90.022 relative to weeds and noxious vegetation, responsibilities of the owner,
occupant, or person in charge of any lot or parcel of land, violations, and
procedures for dealing with violations shall also apply to this section.
(Prior Code, § 4.0605)
§ 90.025 OBSTRUCTION OF INTERSECTIONS.
   No person shall plant or permit to grow upon any premises abutting upon any
street, road, or alley any tree, shrub, hedge, or vegetation in such way to
obstruct the view of the drivers of vehicles approaching any street
intersection.
(Prior Code, § 4.0606) Penalty, see §
90.999
ABANDONED BUILDINGS
§ 90.040 CONDITIONS, DEFECTS OF BUILDINGS/STRUCTURES.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, any building, structure, or premises
which has any or all conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be
deemed to be a dangerous or hazardous building, structure, or premises provided
that such conditions or defects exist to the extent that the life, health,
safety, or welfare of the public or its occupants is threatened and endangered:
   (A)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, wind, flood, or
by any other cause, to the extent that the structural strength or stability
thereof is materially less than it was before such catastrophe has occurred,
and poses a potential danger of collapse or threat to safety to persons or
property;
   (B)   Whenever any portion or member, or appurtenance thereof, is likely to
fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
   (C)   Whenever any portion thereof has warped, buckled, or settled to such
an extent that the walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds than is required or expected of similar new construction;
   (D)   Whenever a door, aisle, passageway, stairway, or other means of exit
is not of sufficient width or size, or is not so arranged as to provide safe
and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
   (E)   Whenever the building, structure, or premises, or any portion thereof,
is likely to partially or completely collapse because of:
      (1)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
      (2)   Faulty construction;
      (3)   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
      (4)   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
      (5)   Any other cause.
   (F)   Whenever, for any reason, the building, structure, or premises, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used, intended to be used, or capable of being used;
   (G)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
   (H)   Whenever any building, structure, or premises has been constructed,
exists, or is maintained in violation of any specific requirements or
prohibition applicable to such building or structures provided by the building
regulations of this state or city relative to the construction, condition,
location, or structure of buildings;
   (I)   Whenever any building, structure, or premises, because of
obsolescence, dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits,
lack of sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, heating apparatus, or other cause is determined to be a fire
hazard;
   (J)   Whenever a building, structure, or premises used or intended to be
used for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
decay, damage, faulty construction, or arrangement, deemed to be unsanitary,
unfit for human habitation, or in a condition that is likely to cause sickness
or disease;
   (K)   Whenever any portion of a building, structure, or premises remains on
a site after the demolition or destruction of the building, structure, or
premises, or whenever any building, structure, or premises is abandoned for a
period in excess of six months, so as to constitute such building, structure,
or premises, or portion(s) thereof, an attractive nuisance or hazard to the
public;
   (L)   Whenever any building, structure, or premises is in such condition as
to constitute a PUBLIC NUISANCE, as defined by the laws and statutes of the
state, city ordinances, the common law, or equity jurisprudence;
   (M)   Whenever the building, structure, or premises has been so damaged by
wind, earthquake, fire, or flood, or has become so dilapidated, deteriorated,
or neglected to become:
      (1)   An attractive nuisance for children;
      (2)   A harbor for vagrants, criminals, or immoral persons; or
      (3)   As to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of
committing unlawful, immoral, or vandalistic acts.
   (N)   Whenever any building, structure, or premises which, whether or not
erected in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-
supporting part, member, or portion, less than 50%, or in any supporting part,
member, or portion less than the 66% required by the law in the case of newly
constructed buildings, structures, or premises of like area, height, and
occupancy in the same location:
      (1)   Strength;
      (2)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
      (3)   Weather resisting qualities or characteristics.
   (O)   Whenever a building, structure, or premises is not kept or maintained
in a manner which is at variance with, and inferior to the level of,
maintenance of surrounding properties relative to the following conditions:
      (1)   Unoccupied buildings allowed to deteriorate or decay without taking
care of repairs, upkeep, or maintenance;
      (2)   Abandoned or boarded up, or partially destroyed or partially
constructed;
      (3)   Deteriorating or peeling of paint that allows the exterior building
coverings to deteriorate or to permit the effect of sun and water penetration
so as to encourage decay, dry rot, warping, or cracking;
      (4)   Broken window, doors, attic vents, and under floor vents;
      (5)   Overgrown vegetation which is unsightly and/or conducive to the
harboring of rats, vermin, or other rodents and pests;
      (6)   Dead, decayed, or diseased trees, weeds, and other vegetation;
      (7)   Trash, debris, garbage, or refuse strewn on/around the premises;
and
      (8)   Building exteriors, walls, fences, driveways, or walkways which are
cracked, broken, defective, or deteriorated, in disrepair, or defaced.
   (P)   Whenever an owner or occupant is holding a building, structure, or
premises for demolition purposes beyond one year after declaring so, or as
evidenced by surrounding circumstances; or
   (Q)   Whenever a building, structure, or premises has been allowed to
deteriorate or decay to:
         (1)   Cause neighborhood blight;
         (2)   Adversely effect other properties and/or property values;
         (3)   Erode the visual environment of the neighborhood or the
community; or
         (4)   Attract or harbor rats, vermin, other rodents, and/or pests.
(Prior Code, § 4.0701) (Ord. 411, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 90.041 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Common Council may appoint any of the following depending
upon circumstances, conditions, or preferences, to serve at the pleasure of the
Common Council to assist in enforcing or implementing the provisions of this
subchapter.
         (a)   Building Inspector to serve annually. A Building Inspector, or
other authorized representative, appointed at each annual reorganization of the
Common Council for the ensuing year.
         (b)   Building Inspector to serve for individual situations(s). A
Building Inspector, or other authorized representative, to serve for one or
more specific situations brought before the Common Council.
         (c)   Standing Committee to serve annually. A Building Committee, or
other commission, appointed at each annual reorganization of the Common Council
for the ensuing year.
         (d)   Ad hoc committee. An ad hoc committee to serve for one or more
specific situations(s) brought before the Common Council.
      (2)   Such Building Inspector or Building Committee may, or may not,
consist wholly or partially of member(s) of the Common Council.
      (3)   For the purpose(s) of this subchapter, such Building Inspector or
Committee(s) (or other authorized representative(s) of the Common Council)
shall be referred to as Building Inspector in this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever deemed necessary to make an inspection, or whenever the
Building Inspector has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any
building, structure, or upon any premises any condition which makes such
building, structure, or premises dangerous, as described in §
90.040, the Building Inspector may enter upon such building, structure, or
premises at any/all reasonable time(s) to inspect the same or perform any duty
imposed upon the Building Inspector, provided that:
      (1)   If such building, structure, or premises be occupied, the Building
Inspector shall first present proper credentials to demand entry; or
      (2)   If such building or premises be unoccupied, the Building Inspector
shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having
charge or control of such building, structure, or premises and demand entry. If
such entry is refused, the Building Inspector shall have recourse provided by
law to secure entry. The Building Inspector is hereby authorized to request
members of the Common Council, residents, or officers of the Police Department
to assist the Building Inspector in making an evaluation or review of such
building, structure, or premises. If a visual inspection of the exterior of the
building, structure, or premises reveals conditions as listed in §
90.040, without the necessity for entering such building, structure, or
premises, a determination may be made solely on the basis of such visual, non-
entry inspection.
   (C)   Buildings, structures, or premises, or portions thereof, which are
determined after inspection to be dangerous, hazardous, dilapidated,
uninhabitable, or abandoned, as described in this chapter, may be referred to
the Common Council for Council declaration as a public nuisance. Said Common
Council may declare such building, structure, or premises a public nuisance
which shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal or
demolition in accordance with the procedures specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.0702) (Ord. 411, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 90.042 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Commencement of proceedings. Whenever the Building Inspector has
inspected any building, structure, or premises and determined that such
building, structure, or premises is dangerous or hazardous, the Building
Inspector shall commence proceedings to cause the repair, rehabilitation,
vacation, removal, or demolition of the building, structure, or premises by
making a recommendation to the Common Council for further action. The Common
Council shall take official action on the recommendation at a formal meeting of
the Council.
   (B)   Notice and order. The Building Inspector shall issue a notice and
order directed to the person having record title, legal interest, or control of
such building, structure, or premises. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   Address, description. The street address and/or legal description
sufficient for identification of the premises upon which the building,
structure, or premises is located;
      (2)   Statement of Building Inspector. A statement that the Common
Council has determined the building, structure, or premises to be dangerous or
hazardous, with a brief and concise description of the conditions(s) bound to
render the building, structure, or premises dangerous under the provisions of
this subchapter; and
      (3)   Statement of action required. A statement of action shall include:
         (a)   A statement reciting what repairs(s), vacation, demolition or
removal, or other course of action, is required as under §
90.043;
         (b)   The time limitation(s) under which such action must be
completed; and
         (c)   A statement advising that any person having any recorded title
or legal interest in the building, structure, or premises may appeal from the
notice order to said Common Council. The appeal must be in writing as provided
in this subchapter, and filed with the Municipal Finance Officer within ten
days from the date of service of such notice and order. In addition, the notice
must advise or inform that failure to appeal will constitute a waiver of all
rights to a hearing on the matter.
(Prior Code, § 4.0703) (Ord. 411, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 90.043 REQUIRED ACTION.
   The following action shall be taken as determined by the Common Council.
   (A)   If the Common Council has determined that the building, structure, or
premises be repaired or improved, the order shall require that all required
permits be obtained therefor, and the work physically commenced within 60 days
from the date of the order, and to be completed within such time as the Common
Council shall determine is reasonable under the circumstances.
   (B)   If the Common Council has determined that the building, structure, or
premises must be removed or demolished, the order shall require that the
building, structure, or premises be vacated within such time as the Common
Council shall determine is reasonable (not to exceed 60 days from the date of
the order), that all required permits be obtained within 60 days from the date
of the order, and that the demolition or removal be completed within such time
as the Common Council determines is reasonable under the circumstances.
Completed demolition or removal shall include filling in of the open basements
as soon as exposed.
(Prior Code, § 4.0704) (Ord. 411, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 90.044 SERVICE, NOTICE OF ORDER.
   The notice and order, and any amended or supplemental notice and order,
shall be served upon the person having record title, legal interest, or control
of such building, structure, or premises, and upon tenants (if any).
(Prior Code, § 4.0705) (Ord. 411, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 90.045 METHOD OF SERVICE.
   Service of the notice and order upon persons in §
90.044 shall be made either personally or by mailing a copy of such notice and
order by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt required
(or by comparable means, in the event of postal changes). If no address of such
person(s) appears to be, or is known, to the Building Inspector, a copy of the
notice and order shall be published two consecutive times in the official legal
newspaper of the city. The failure of any such person to receive such notice
shall not effect the validity of any proceedings taken under this subchapter.
Service by certified or registered mail in the manner hereto provided shall be
effective on the date of mailing. Service by legal publication shall be
effective on the date of final publication.
(Prior Code, § 4.0706) (Ord. 411, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 90.046 STANDARDS OF REPAIR; DEMOLITION; VACATION; REMOVAL.
   The following standards shall be followed by the Building Inspector and the
Common Council in ordering repair(s), rehabilitation, vacation, removal, or
demolition of any dangerous or hazardous building, structure, or premises:
   (A)   The condition or defects causing a building, structure, or premises to
be declared dangerous or hazardous under this subchapter shall either be
eliminated or repaired in accordance with the current building code or
instructions by the Common Council, or shall be demolished or removed at the
option of the owner or other party in §
90.044; and
   (B)   If the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
immediately dangerous or hazardous to the life, limb, property, welfare,
health, or safety of the public or its occupants, it shall be ordered vacated,
demolished, or removed.
(Prior Code, § 4.0707) (Ord. 411, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 90.047 APPEALS.
   (A)   Board of Appeals. In order to provide for final interpretation of the
provisions of this subchapter and to hear appeals provided for hereunder, there
is hereby established a Board of Appeals, which shall be the Common Council. If
the Building Inspector is not a member of the Common Council, the Building
Inspector shall be an ex officio member.
   (B)   Filing an appeal. Any person may appeal from any notice and order or
action of the Common Council (not acting as a Board of Appeals) under this
subchapter by filing, at the office of the Municipal Finance Officer within ten
days from the date of service of such order, a written appeal containing:
      (1)   A brief statement of the specific order or action protested,
together with any material facts claimed to support the contentions of the
person appealing;
      (2)   A brief statement of the relief sought and reasons why it is
claimed that the protested order or action should be reversed, modified,
provided for compliance time, or set aside; and
      (3)   The signature(s) and addresses of the appellant(s).
   (C)   Processing of appeal. Upon receipt of any appeal filed in this
subchapter, the Municipal Finance Officer shall present it at the next regular
or special meeting of the Common Council for action by the Board of Appeals.
   (D)   Scheduling and noticing appeal for hearing.
      (1)   As soon as practicable after receiving the written appeal, the
Municipal Finance Officer shall fix a date, time, and place for the hearing of
the Common Council, acting as a Board of Appeals.
      (2)   Written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given
at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing to each appellant by the
Municipal Finance Officer by causing a copy of such notice of hearing to be
delivered to the appellant personally or by mailing a copy thereof by certified
or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested (or by comparable
means, in the event of postal changes), and addressed to the appellant at his
or her address as shown on the appeal.
   (E)   Failure to appeal. Failure of any person to file an appeal in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter shall constitute a waiver of
his or her right to administrative hearing and adjudication of the notice and
order, or any portion thereof.
   (F)   Scope of hearings on appeal. Only those matters or issues specifically
raised by the appellant shall be considered in the hearing on the appeal.
   (G)   Staying order under appeal. Enforcement of any notice and order of the
Common Council issued under this subchapter shall be stayed during the pendency
of an appeal therefrom which is properly and timely filed.
   (H)   Inspection of premises. The Common Council, acting as a Board of
Appeals, or a hearing examiner appointed by the Board, may inspect the
building, structure, or premises involved in the appeal during the course of
the hearing, provided that:
      (1)   Notice of such inspection shall be given to the party(ies) before
inspection is made;
      (2)   The party(ies) is/are given an opportunity to be present during the
inspection; and
      (3)   The Board shall state for the record upon completion of the
inspection the material facts observed and the conclusions drawn therefrom.
Each party then shall have a right to rebut or explain the matters so stated by
the Board.
   (I)   Form of decision. The decision of the Board of Appeals shall be in
writing and shall contain the findings, a determination of issues presented,
and the requirements to be complied with. A copy of the decision shall be
delivered to the appellant(s) personally or sent by certified or registered
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested (or comparable mailing in the
event of postal changes). The effective date of the decision shall be stated
therein.
(Prior Code, § 4.0708) (Ord. 411, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 90.048 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER.
   (A)   Failure to commence work. Whenever the required repair(s),
rehabilitation, demolition, or removal is not commenced within 30 days after a
final notice and order issued under this subchapter become effective:
      (1)   The Common Council shall declare the building, structure, or
premises described as dangerous or hazardous and order it to be vacated by
posting at each entrance a notice stating that the building, structure, or
premises is dangerous, hazardous, and unsafe for human occupancy;
      (2)   No person shall occupy any building, structure, or premises which
has been posted as specified in this subchapter. No person shall remove or
deface any such notice so posted until the repairs, rehabilitation, demolition,
or removal has been completed as ordered; and
      (3)   The Common Council may, in addition to any other remedy provided
herein, order the building, structure, or premises to be repaired to the extent
necessary to correct the conditions which render the building, structure, or
premises dangerous or hazardous as set forth in the notice and order. If the
notice and order requires demolition or removal, the Common Council may:
         (a)   Cause the building, structure, or premises to be demolished, and
the materials, rubble, and debris therefrom removed, the lot cleared, and the
basement filled;
         (b)   Cause the building, structure, or premises to be sold and
demolished, with materials, rubble, and debris therefrom removed, the lot
cleared, and the basement filled; or
         (c)   Cause the building, structure, or premises to be sold and moved
outside the city limits, the lot cleared, and the basement filled.
      (4)   Any excess realized over and above the cost of demolition, removal,
clearing the lot, and filling the basement (if any) shall be paid over to the
person or persons lawfully entitled thereto.
   (B)   Extension of time to perform work. Upon receipt of an application from
the person(s) required to conform to the notice and order, and agreement by
such person that he or she will comply with the order if allowed additional
time, the Common Council may, at its discretion, grant an extension of time not
to exceed an additional 120 days, within which to complete and repair,
rehabilitate, demolish, or remove such building and structure, if the Common
Council determines that such an extension of time will not create or perpetuate
a situation imminently dangerous to life or property, and will not in any way
effect or extend the time to appeal the original notice and order.
   (C)   Interference with repair or demolition work prohibited. No person
shall obstruct, impede, or interfere with any officer, employee, contractor, or
authorized representative of the city, or with any person who owns or holds an
estate or interest in any building, structure, or premises which has been
ordered repaired, vacated, demolished, or removed under the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (D)   Failure to obey order. If after any order of the Common Council made
pursuant to this subchapter, has become final, the person to whom such order is
directed shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey such order, the Common Council
may cause such person to be prosecuted for violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.0709) (Ord. 411, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 90.049 POST INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector or the Common Council is hereby authorized to
inspect the building, structure, or premises upon completion of the repair(s),
demolition, or removal by persons having record title, legal interest, or
control; or to inspect such building, structure, or premises upon expiration of
time for completing such repair(s), demolition, or removal.
   (B)   Such inspection shall be held to determine whether the person having
record title, legal interest, or control of such building, structure, or
premises has substantially performed the notice and order, or his or her
commitment to voluntary compliance.
   (C)   If the post-inspection reveals that conditions still are present to
characterize the building, structure, or premises as dangerous or hazardous,
the Common Council is authorized to reject the performance of the person having
record title, legal interest, or control of such building, structure, or
premises; and to declare him or her in default of the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.0710) (Ord. 411, passed 9-2-1992)
§ 90.050 RECOVERY OF COSTS OF REPAIRS; DEMOLITION.
   The city is hereby authorized to recover the total cost of the repair(s),
demolition, or removal of dangerous and hazardous buildings, structures, or
premises under this subchapter, and through any means available under the laws
of the state (SDCL § 21-10-6), including, but not limited to, the taxing of the
cost thereof by special assessment against the real property on which the
public nuisance occurred, and bylaws, as from time to time amended.
(Prior Code, § 4.0711) (Ord. 411, passed 9-2-1992)
NUISANCE VEHICLES
§ 90.065 OBJECTIVES AND DECLARATION OF PUBLIC INTEREST.
   Nuisance vehicles, or parts thereof, constitute a hazard to the health,
safety, and welfare of the people of the city, in that such vehicles can harbor
noxious diseases, furnish shelter and breeding places for vermin, rodents, and
undesirable insects, compound the enforcement for controlling the existence and
spread of noxious weeds, and present physical danger to the safety and well-
being of children and other citizens. Nuisance vehicles, or part thereof, also
constitute a blight on the landscape of the city and therefor are a detriment
to the environment. It is therefor, to the public interest and in the interests
of personal protection and property protection, that the presently placed,
parked, stored, accumulated, deposited, and stockpiled situation of abandoned,
partially dismantled, derelict, junked, or currently unlicensed vehicles, or
parts thereof, be eliminated, and that future accumulating, placing, parking,
storing, depositing, or stockpiling of such vehicles be prohibited, and that
other acceptable, alternate, and economically useful methods for such vehicles
be encouraged by owners or possessors thereof.
(Ord. 514, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 90.066 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is left unattended on any public street,
alley, public place, or parking lot within the city for more than 48 hours
without notifying the city or the Police Department, and making arrangements
for the parking of such vehicles on public property, or that is left for more
than 30 days on private property.
   INOPERABLE/HAZARDOUS VEHICLE. Any vehicle which has not physically moved at
least 25 feet in a two-month period due to damage, removal, or inoperability of
the engine, tire(s), wheel(s), or other essential parts required for operation
of the vehicle, or which does not have, lawfully affixed thereto, a valid state
license plate, or which constitutes an immediate health, safety, fire, or
traffic hazard.
   JUNKED VEHICLES. Any vehicle which is substantially wrecked, dismantled, or
in need of repairs equaling or exceeding 50% of the fair market value of the
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. Any abandoned, inoperable/hazardous, junked, or currently
unlicensed VEHICLE as further defined herein this section.
   OFFENDER.
      (1)   The owner and/or person(s) in possession of the nuisance vehicle or
the parts thereof, whether or not the nuisance vehicle is located on public or
private property.
      (2)   OFFENDER shall also mean the legal owner and/or occupant of any
privately-owned real property where the nuisance vehicle is located when the
offense was committed.
   PERSONS. Any person or individual. It shall also mean any firm, partnership,
association, corporation, company, group, or organization of any kind, and
without regard to the purposes or objectives of formation or existence.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately-owned
and which is not PUBLIC PROPERTY, as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley, highway, or boulevard, which shall
include the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained for the purpose of vehicular travel, or any other publicly-owned
property or facility.
   VEHICLE. Any machine, device implement, contrivance, apparatus, or
automobile normally propelled by power, other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, skids, or slides and
used to transport persons or property, to perform tasks, or to pull machinery,
implements, contrivances, apparatus, automobiles, or other vehicles, and shall
include, without limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles,
tractors, machines, implements, snowmobiles, motor trucks and/or trailers,
often referred to as semi-trailers, house trailers, trailer coaches, cabin
trailers, mobile homes, recreation vehicles, vans, or combinations thereof, but
not necessarily limited to such devices, machines, implement, contrivances,
apparatus, or automobiles.
(Ord. 514, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 90.067 STORING ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   No person shall park, store, or leave, nor permit the parking, storing, or
leaving of, any NUISANCE VEHICLE as defined in §
90.066, whether attended or not, upon any public property within the city for
more than 48 hours or on any private property for more than 30 days. The
presence of a nuisance vehicle, or parts thereof, on private or public property
is prohibited and hereby declared a public nuisance, which may be abated as
such in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 514, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 90.068 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any vehicle that is:
   (A)   Totally enclosed within a building or behind a solid fence or other
enclosure that blocks sight of the vehicle(s), the same being no less than
eight feet high on private property or leased public property. All fences or
other enclosures must be approved by the city;
   (B)   On the premises of a business enterprise lawfully licensed by the
state for sales, use, or excise tax purposes and properly operated in the
appropriate business zone, pursuant to the zoning laws of the city, if any, and
stored in accordance with this subchapter;
   (C)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the city; and/or
   (D)   Designed for operation on a drag strip or raceway, or for other hobby
or recreational purposes, provided that such vehicle is properly stored in
accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 514, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 90.069 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   As defined under §
90.066, the OFFENDER(S) shall be responsible for removal of the nuisance
vehicle, or the parts thereof.
(Ord. 514, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 90.070 ENFORCEMENT; ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   If a nuisance exists, the city shall issue a notice of violation to
the offender(s), directing abatement within ten days. Notice of violation may
be served by personal service, by registered mail, or by posting notice in a
conspicuous place within the city, in which event must also include publication
for a period of one week in the legal newspaper of the city.
   (B)   If an offender wishes to file an appeal with the Common Council, he or
she must do so within seven days of the notice of violation being served. Any
person who fails to file a timely appeal shall be deemed to have waived all
rights to objection.
   (C)   The appeal shall be heard before the Common Council within one
calendar month of the filing.
   (D)   The Common Council shall notify the offender(s) of its decision by
registered or certified mail. If the appeal is unsuccessful, abatement must be
completed within seven days after said notification, unless the offender(s) can
show cause why more time is needed. An extension, if any, is granted at the
sole discretion of the Common Council.
   (E)   If the abatement is not completed as ordered, the city shall abate the
nuisance by use of an authorized towing company and file an account with the
Common Council, which shall specify the sum expended in abating said nuisance,
and if the account is accepted, the amount thereof shall become a lien upon the
nuisance vehicle and upon the real property whereon the offense was committed,
if the real property is privately owned.
(Ord. 514, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 90.071 LITTER AND LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit, park, place, permit to remain, store, or
leave any motor vehicle, or parts thereof, or portion therefrom, which does not
have affixed thereto a valid, current state motor vehicle inspection
certificate, and which is in a rusted, wrecked, junked, or partially
dismantled, or inoperative or abandoned condition, whether attended or not; or
for the owner of any such vehicle, or the owner or occupant of any property to
allow, permit, or suffer the same to be left on any privately- owned property,
unless the same be first duly authorized by the Common Council in conjunction
with a business properly operated pursuant to, and in compliance with, all
applicable provisions of the city ordinance, or unless such vehicle is located
entirely within an enclosed private or public garage. Failure to comply, shall
constitute a misdemeanor against any individual or group in violation of §
90.071.
(Prior Code, § 4.0318) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
90.004 and
90.007 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon such conviction, shall
be punished by a fine not exceeding $50.
(Prior Code, § 7.0803)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.065 through
90.070 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, which upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500. Each day
that any such person shall violate any of the provisions of §§
90.065 through
90.070(B) shall constitute a separate offense and be punishable as such. A
violation of this chapter is not stayed by or conditioned on the notice
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 4.0207)
   (D)   Any person hauling or transporting, or causing to be hauled or
transported, dead animals, co- stated in §
90.007(C), which have died or been killed outside of, and beyond, the city
limits, except those to be used for consumption by humans or pets, on any
street, except streets which are occupied and designated as state highways,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 4.0316)
   (E)   Failure to comply shall constitute a misdemeanor against any
individual or group in violation of §
90.071.
(Prior Code, § 4.0318)
(Ord. 514, passed 3-6-2017)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Animal restrictions
   
91.003   Applicability
Permits
   
91.015   Raising of domestic animals; permit needed
   
91.016   Application requirements; procedures
   
91.017   Issuance of permit
   
91.018   City ordinance applicability
Licensing
   
91.030   Annual license fee
   
91.031   Licensing not required
   
91.032   Rabies vaccination required
   
91.033   Licensing for dogs
   
91.034   Unlicensed dogs prohibited
   
91.035   Noncompliance
Dogs
   
91.050   Dogs at large
   
91.051   Vicious or dangerous dogs
   
91.052   Applicability to adult dogs
   
91.053   Removal or destruction
   
91.054   Disturbing the peace
   
91.055   Dogs and rabies
Livestock
   
91.070   Animals at large
   
91.071   Duty to impound
   
91.072   Notice of impoundment
   
91.073   Disposition of animals
   
91.074   Right of owner to repossession
   
91.075   Fees and charges for impoundment
Impoundment
   
91.090   Animals and impoundment
   
91.091   Duty to impound
   
91.092   Register
   
91.093   Notice of impoundment
   
91.094   Impoundment and maintenance charges
   
91.095   Unlicensed dogs in impoundment
   
91.096   Time frame for impoundment
   
91.097   Certain dogs not to be released
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner or occupant and not under the
control of the owner or member of his or her family, or designated individual,
either by leash or otherwise, but a dog within a vehicle of the owner shall be
deemed to be upon the owner’s property.
      DOG.
         (a)   Includes both males and females, singular and/or plural where
applicable.
         (b)   The term OTHER ANIMALS shall include cats, rabbits, or other
animals, males and/or females, singular and/or plural where applicable.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, or corporation, or legal entity having
possessory property right(s) in a dog, or other animal, or one who possesses,
owns, houses, harbors, cares for, exercises control over, raises, confines,
breeds, keeps, or knowingly permits such dog, or other animal, to remain on
premises occupied by such person(s), or who creates the appearance of owning
such dog, or other animal, that remains, or to which it customarily returns
daily for a period of ten days, is presumed to be harboring or keeping such dog
or other animal.
      VICIOUS or DANGEROUS DOG, or OTHER ANIMAL.
         (a)   Any dog, or other animal, that, without intentional provocation,
bites or attacks humans or other animals.
         (b)   Any dog, or other animal, with a propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack, to cause injury, or to otherwise endanger the safety of
human beings or domestic animals, any dog or other animal that approaches (or
has approached) an individual in a threatening manner as if to be endangering
the safety of such individual, or any dog or other animal that has demonstrated
such characteristics in one or more incidents in the past.
         (c)   Any PIT BULL TERRIER, which is defined as any dog identifiable,
or know, or should be known, by the owner to be a PIT BULL TERRIER, which shall
herein be defined as any American pit bull terrier or Staffordshire bull
terrier, or American Staffordshire pit bull terrier, or other Pit bull terrier
breed or dog, or any mixed breed of dog which contains as an element of its
breeding the breed of American pit bull terrier, Staffordshire bull terrier,
American Staffordshire bull terrier, or other pit bull breed as to be
identifiable as partially of the breed of American pit bull terrier,
Staffordshire bull terrier, American Staffordshire bull terrier, or any other
pit bull terrier.
         (d)   Any ROTTWEILER breed of dog, which is defined as any dog
identifiable or known to be, or should be known by the owner to be a rottweiler
breed of dog or any mixed breed of dog which contains an element of its
breeding the breed of rottweiler or other rottweiler breeds as to be
identifiable as partially or wholly of the breed of rottweiler.
   (B)   In the interest of immediate need for the public safety and welfare,
any provisions of this section shall be in full force and effect immediately,
and shall not be subject to the principle of pre-existing conditions (commonly
referred to as the “grandfather clause”).
(Prior Code, § 6.0102) (Ord. 407, passed 3-6-1991; Ord. 426, passed 2-7-1996)
§ 91.002 ANIMAL RESTRICTIONS.
   No person owning, keeping, or having in his or her possession or control,
any hogs, sheep, cows, poultry, horses, or other animals at any place within
the corporate limits of the city shall permit or suffer the premises around the
place in which such animal or animals are kept to be offensive, nor shall any
person keep any such animal(s) within 300 feet of any dwelling house, except
that of the owner of such animal(s) within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.0202)
§ 91.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions hereof shall include dogs, cats, and other domesticated
animals not specifically prohibited within the city limits by ordinance, so far
as applicable, but animals other than dogs are not required to be licensed.
   (B)   Animals specifically prohibited shall not be allowed within the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.0101)
PERMITS
§ 91.015 RAISING OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS; PERMIT NEEDED.
   (A)   This subchapter prohibits or restricts the raising of dogs, or other
animals, as defined under OWNER in §
91.001, in quantity or number, to protect the health, welfare, safety, and
peaceable enjoyment of individuals, and the preservation of individual property
rights.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to possess, own, house, harbor,
care for, exercise control over, raise, confine, breed, keep, or knowingly
permit dogs, or other animals, of/in a quantity or number exceeding three dogs,
cats, or genus, classes, or types of other animals at any one time:
      (1)   Within 300 feet of any residence or other structures, whether
occupied or not; or
      (2)   Unless a quantity animal permit is approved and issued therefor by
formal action of the Common Council assembled in regular or special session,
and duly acquired by, and issued to, the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6.0208) (Ord. 407, passed 3-6-1991) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.016 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS; PROCEDURES.
   The application for a quantity animal permit shall include the following
procedures and requirements, which shall be documented and submitted with the
application.
   (A)   The applicant must first obtain all necessary and required federal
and/or state approval permits and/or licenses (where applicable) for the
raising, breeding, disposition, and/or sale of dogs and/or other animals and
their offspring, or for engaging in such related activities. Proof of such
permit or license must be submitted with the application.
   (B)   The applicant must obtain the signatures of all residents, tenants,
occupants, or owners of properties whose boundaries, or portions thereof, lie
within 300 feet of the location, or proposed location, where such dogs or other
animals are possessed, owned, housed, harbored, cared for, exercised control
over, raised, confined, bred, kept, or knowingly permitted. If any such
property is unoccupied, the signature of the owner must be obtained.
   (C)   The application must describe the intended purposes(s) of the activity
(ies), the type of accommodations available, the proposed location, and the
identification of animals and numbers to be covered under a proposed permit. In
addition, the application must describe the procedural and operating safeguards
to prevent abuse or public nuisance(s), as well as measures to protect the
health, welfare, safety, and/or non-infringement upon the peaceable enjoyment
of the property rights of others.
(Prior Code, § 6.0209) (Ord. 407, passed 3-6-1991)
§ 91.017 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Common Council shall reserve the right to exercise discretionary
powers and/or rights in determining whether or not a quantity animal permit
shall/will be granted, issued, or approved initially, or subsequently renewed.
   (B)   Permits and annual renewal permits shall be issued for periods of one
year.
   (C)   Applications for annual renewal(s) of said permit shall be submitted
at least 30 days prior to the expiration date, and shall observe the
requirements and procedures described in §
91.016, unless specifically waived separately for each renewal period by formal
action of the Common Council. Such specific waiver does not constitute a waiver
for subsequent renewals, or for other applicants.
   (D)   The permit fee for a quantity animal permit, and subsequent renewals,
shall be $2 annually, to be submitted with the application therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6.0210) (Ord. 407, passed 3-6-1991)
§ 91.018 CITY ORDINANCE APPLICABILITY.
   The issuance of a quantity animal permit does not provide exceptions,
waivers, or exemptions for compliance with any or all city ordinances. All city
ordinances shall apply to the holder of such a permit or renewal, including §§
91.001,
91.003,
91.015 through
91.018,
91.030 through
91.035,
91.050 through
91.055, and
91.999(A) through (C), and all sections applicable thereto. The issuance of a
quantity animal permit shall not exempt the owner from licensing requirements.
(Prior Code, § 6.0211) (Ord. 407, passed 3-6-1991)
LICENSING
§ 91.030 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   Each owner, keeper, and person in charge of any dog shall, before May 1 in
each year, pay a license fee to the City Finance Officer or police officer for
each dog. The Common Council shall from time to time establish the rates and
charges, including the categories of collection or any other special categories
or rates.
(Prior Code, § 6.0301) (Ord. 487, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 91.031 LICENSING NOT REQUIRED.
   No dog need be licensed if the dog is less than three months of age and is
kept on the property of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6.0302)
§ 91.032 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued for any dog
unless it shall have been vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian with anti-rabic
vaccine within three months preceding the date on which the dog is licensed,
or, in case of a permanent vaccine, at any time prior to the time of licensing.
   (B)   Vaccination with live embryonated egg vaccine within two years shall
be deemed vaccination sufficient to permit the issuance of the license required
by this subchapter, and a veterinarian’s certificate to that effect shall be in
compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.0303)
§ 91.033 LICENSING FOR DOGS.
   The Finance Officer or police officer shall issue his or her receipt for the
payment of the license fee imposed upon dogs by this subchapter, and the
Finance Officer or police officer shall issue to the person a certificate to
the effect that the dog therein described has been duly registered, and shall
also deliver to such person a metal tag or check, which certificate and tag or
check shall bear the registry number of the dog together with the year in which
the certificate tag or check was issued, and the tag or check shall be securely
fastened upon the collar of the dog so registered.
(Prior Code, § 6.0304)
§ 91.034 UNLICENSED DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to keep or harbor within the
city any dog not licensed as herein provided for.
(Prior Code, § 6.0206) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.035 NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any dog owner not in compliance with licensing procedures by May 1 of
each year shall be subject to an additional penalty fee for each dog license.
   (B)   The fee may be reviewed by the Common Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6.0305) Penalty, see §
91.999
DOGS
§ 91.050 DOGS AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or owner of
any dog, whether licensed or unlicensed, to allow any dog owned or controlled
by such person, firm, or corporation, or owner, to run at large at any time
beyond the limits of the property or premises of the owner, and upon the
streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or recreation areas, property of another, or
other public or private property.
   (B)   For the purpose hereof, a dog shall be considered to be running at
large whenever such dog is not under the immediate control of a person able to
do so by means of a leash, chain, rope, or electronic leash, and:
      (1)   With one end held by a person physically able to control the
animal;
      (2)   With one end fastened securely to an object to control the animal;
      (3)   Kept in a pen, fence, or other restraining enclosure; or
      (4)   Electronic leash, such as a collar and electronic device, to
control animal.
(Ord. 509, passed 1-4-2016) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.051 VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, or owner to keep,
harbor, or allow to be present within the city, whether or not on the property
or premises of the owner of occupant:
   (A)   Any vicious or dangerous dog, or other animal; and/or
   (B)   Any PIT BULL TERRIER, as defined in this §
91.001.
(Prior Code, § 6.0202)
§ 91.052 APPLICABILITY TO ADULT DOGS.
   The provision of this subchapter shall apply to adult dogs only, which shall
mean any dog over the age of six months.
(Prior Code, § 6.0203)
§ 91.053 REMOVAL OR DESTRUCTION.
   Upon notice from a member of the Police Department, the owner of a dog, or
other animal, declared or identified as a vicious or dangerous dog, or other
animal, or is a PIT BULL TERRIER, as defined in §
91.001, shall, within 24 hours after such notice, remove such dog, other
animal, or pit bull dog from the city or destroy it. Nothing in this subchapter
shall be construed to prevent immediate destruction of a vicious or dangerous
dog, or other animal by a police officer:
   (A)   If the owner does not comply with the order from a police officer to
remove or destroy such dog, or other animal, in time allotted;
   (B)   If the surrounding circumstances deem it necessary to take immediate
action relative to removal or destruction; or
   (C)   If the animal’s owner and/or police officer is unable to restrain or
control the dog, or other animal, so it might be impounded or removed.
(Prior Code, § 6.0204)
§ 91.054 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to suffer or allow any dog
owned or controlled by him or her to disturb the peace and quiet of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.0205) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.055 DOGS AND RABIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to keep or maintain in the city
any dog, or other animal, which appears to be suffering from rabies or other
infections or dangerous disease. It shall be unlawful for any person or owner
to not immediately report such act to a veterinarian or other authority.
(Prior Code, § 6.0207) Penalty, see §
91.999
LIVESTOCK
§ 91.070 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner, or having in his or her
charge, any horses, cattle, or other domestic animals or chickens, or other
domestic fowl, to permit the same, or any one or more of such animals or fowl,
to run at large within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.0101) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.071 DUTY TO IMPOUND.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or any person under his or her
direction, to take up any such domestic animals referred to in this subchapter
found running at large contrary to the provisions of the foregoing section, and
to confine the same in such public pound as shall be provided for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 9.0102)
§ 91.072 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever the Chief of Police, or any other person under his or her
direction, shall take up any animal or animals, or livestock or poultry, under
the provisions of this subchapter, he or she shall immediately cause personal
notice thereof to be given to the owner or person in charge of such animals, if
known, and if the owner or person in charge thereof is unknown, then by posting
such notice on the front door of the building in which the Council usually
meets, such notice to contain a description of such animals so impounded with
any marks or brands that may be on the same, and to state the time of the
distraint of such animals.
(Prior Code, § 9.0103)
§ 91.073 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   If the animals so distrained are not claimed by the owner, or person in
charge thereof, within five days after the posting or personal service of the
notice provided for in the §
91.072, the Chief of Police, or person designated by him or her, shall proceed
to sell the said animals at public auction to the highest bidder for cash after
giving notice of such sale by publication thereof in one issue of a newspaper
published in the city at least two days prior to said sale, which notice shall
describe the property to be sold, the purpose of sale, and the day and hour
appointed therefor. The proceeds of such sales after deducting all charges,
fees, and expenses of advertising and selling, shall be paid to the Municipal
Finance Officer by the person conducting the said sale, taking his or her
receipt therefor to the Chief of Police, and if at any time within one year
from the date of such sale the owner of the animal or animals so sold shall
appear before the Common Council and make satisfactory proof, by affidavit or
otherwise, that he or she was the owner of the animal or animals so sold, the
city shall cause to be paid to him or her, the amount deposited with the
Municipal Finance Officer, as hereinbefore provided, as the proceeds of the
sale of such animal or animals, the same to be paid on a warrant properly
identifying the fund for which the same is to be paid. The Municipal Finance
Officer shall keep a separate and special account of all such funds so
received.
(Prior Code, § 9.0104)
§ 91.074 RIGHT OF OWNER TO REPOSSESSION.
   The owner or person in charge of any animal or animals impounded, as
hereinbefore provided, shall be entitled to the possession thereof, upon
satisfactory proof of ownership, or right to possession, and upon paying to the
Chief of Police, or other person in charge of such animal or animals, the fees,
costs, and expenses incident to the taking up, impounding, or caring for such
animal or animals, as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 9.0105)
§ 91.075 FEES AND CHARGES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The fees and charges of the Chief of Police, or other person designated by
him or her, for taking up and caring for animals under the provisions of this
subchapter, shall be as follows: for each cow, heifer, steer, bull, stag, calf,
horse or mule, hog, sheep, or goat, $25. In addition to the foregoing fees for
impounding, the actual charges for keeping and the expense of giving notice and
selling the same, in the case of a sale thereof, before claimed by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 9.0106)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 91.090 ANIMALS AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever the Chief of Police of said city shall find it necessary to remove
from any place any hogs, cattle, mules, horses, or other animals in the
performance of his or her duties under this subchapter, he or she may impound
the same as in the case of impounded animals, and the owner or person in charge
shall not be entitled to the possession thereof until he or she shall pay to
the said Chief of Police all costs, expenses, and charges for taking and caring
for said animals, together with the fees allowed in case of impounded animals.
(Prior Code, § 4.0203)
§ 91.091 DUTY TO IMPOUND.
   It shall be the duty of each police officer, or any other person designated
by the Common Council, to apprehend any dog licensed, unlicensed, or non-
vaccinated as required herein, or any vicious or dangerous dog, or any dog
appearing to be suffering from rabies or any other infectious or dangerous
disease, to impound said dog at a city pound or other suitable place designated
by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.0401)
§ 91.092 REGISTER.
   The person designated to be in charge of the pound shall, while receiving
any dogs, make a registry, entering the breed, color, and sex of such dog,
whether the dog is licensed, and the date and place the dog was apprehended. If
the dog is licensed, he or she shall enter the name and address of the owner
and the number of the license tag.
(Prior Code, § 6.0402)
§ 91.093 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The poundkeeper, or other person in charge thereof, shall immediately
notify the owner of a licensed dog having the metal tag required herein as to
the fact of the impounding.
   (B)   As to the dog not having a metal tag, the poundkeeper, or other person
in charge, shall immediately post a written notice at a conspicuous place at
the community center with the information as above required.
(Prior Code, § 6.0403)
§ 91.094 IMPOUNDMENT AND MAINTENANCE CHARGES.
   The following charges are filed and must be paid to the Finance Officer
before the dog impounded may be reclaimed. Fees may be reviewed by the Common
Council from time to time:
   (A)   For impounding a licensed dog, $5; unlicensed dog, $10;
   (B)   For keeping any dog, $1.50 per day; and
   (C)   All costs incurred by the city for vaccination or other veterinary
expense.
(Prior Code, § 6.0404)
§ 91.095 UNLICENSED DOGS IN IMPOUNDMENT.
   An unlicensed dog impounded must be licensed and vaccinated before such dog
is released to its owner or keeper.
(Prior Code, § 6.0405)
§ 91.096 TIME FRAME FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   Licensed dogs impounded pursuant hereto shall be kept for at least seven
days, and unlicensed dogs impounded shall be kept for five days, after giving
or posting of the notice required herein, and at the expiration of which time
the dog required herein, and at the expiration of which time the dog shall be
destroyed in some humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 6.0406)
§ 91.097 CERTAIN DOGS NOT TO BE RELEASED.
   Any dog which appears to be suffering from rabies or any other infectious or
dangerous disease shall not be released, but may be forthwith destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 6.0407)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation, or owner, upon conviction of
violating any provision §§
91.001,
91.003,
91.015 through
91.018,
91.030 through
91.035,
91.050 through
91.055, and
91.091 through
91.097 shall be subject to jail sentence of not more than 30 days, or by fine
of not more than $100, or by both fine and jail sentence.
(Prior Code, § 6.0501)
   (B)   Penalties for violations of §§
91.015 through
91.018 shall include impoundment (as in §§
91.091 through
91.097), but are hereby expanded to include dogs, cats, and/or other animals.
Any person, firm, or corporation, or owner upon conviction of violating any
provisions of §§
91.015 through
91.018 shall be subject to jail sentence of not more than 30 days, or by fine
of not more than $200, or both fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 6.0502)
   (C)   Any person convicted of the provisions of §§
91.001,
91.003,
91.015 through
91.018,
91.030 through
91.035,
91.050 through
91.055, and
91.091 through
91.097, shall be deemed guilty of a Class II misdemeanor, and shall be required
to pay the customary and normal standard court cost at time of first violation.
Any subsequent violation shall incur a $20 fine, plus court cost for each
offense thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 6.0503)
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating §§
91.070 through
91.075 relating to domestic animals shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof, in addition to the fees and charges provided in
this chapter for impounding the animals, shall be punished by a fine of not
exceeding $50 and in the event of conviction, the court may provide that such
fine and costs of prosecution may, in the event of the sale of such impounded
animals, be paid after the fees and charges for impounding, from the proceeds
of the sale of such animals.
(Prior Code, § 9.0108)
      (2)   Any person permitting chickens or other domestic fowl to run at
large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not
exceeding $50 for each offense; and each and every day that such chickens or
domestic fowl shall be permitted to run at large shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.0107)
(Ord. 407, passed 3-6-1991; Ord. 452, passed 2-5-2001)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION; LEISURE
Section
   
92.01   Public parks
   
92.02   Park supervisors
   
92.03   Protection of park property
   
92.04   Authority of police
   
92.05   Rubbish
   
92.06   Driving in parks
   
92.07   Selling merchandise in parks
   
92.08   Hours of operation
   
92.09   Consumption in park allowed
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PUBLIC PARKS.
   The following described land located inside the city, and any areas
hereinafter acquired as parks, are hereby established as a public park as
follows, to-wit:
   (A)   Blocks 11 and 12 (commonly referred to as College Memorial Park); and
   (B)   Block 56, and Lots A, B, and C (commonly referred to as Terrace Park).
(Prior Code, § 5.0701)
§ 92.02 PARK SUPERVISORS.
   The Mayor and the Council members shall be and are hereby constituted the
Board of Park Supervisors for the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0702)
§ 92.03 PROTECTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons:
   (A)   To deface, damage, mar, injure, destroy, litter, or vandalize any
public park or public park property;
   (B)   To break into any public or city-owned building, enclosure, swimming
pool, or swimming pool area, or other related facility;
   (C)   To enter any public or city-owned building, enclosure, swimming pool,
or swimming pool area, or other related facility when it is locked or closed
for the exclusion of public use, or when the surrounding circumstances indicate
that it is so closed;
   (D)   To climb any tree, fence, picnic shelter, monument, flagpole, or other
structure or edifice located in/on park property, but excluding playground
items and equipment designated or normally expected for such use; or
   (E)   To cut, break, pluck, root up, or in anyway disturb any trees, shrubs,
flowers, plants, or bulbs planted or growing in/on park property.
(Prior Code, § 5.0703) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 AUTHORITY OF POLICE.
   The authority of the Chief of Police and other police officers of the city
shall extend to and cover the property described as a public park in §
92.01, and the said police officers shall have the same jurisdiction to enforce
the ordinances of the city within the said park or within one mile of the outer
boundary of said park for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals,
and general welfare of the community, and of enforcing the ordinances and
resolutions of the city relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5.0704)
§ 92.05 RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit, or cause to be
thrown or deposited, any paper, tin cans, rubbish, or offal of any kind in any
such park, or in or about any place set apart for swimming, or body of water or
stream within or adjoining any park under the control of the Board of Park
Supervisors of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.0705) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 DRIVING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lead or drive any horses or other
animals, or any vehicle or motor vehicle, over or upon any of the grass plots
or planting space of any public park, except at such places as may be provided
for the parking of vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5.0706) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 SELLING MERCHANDISE IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any peddling or to sell or offer
for sale any goods, wares, or merchandise in any of the public parks of the
city unless such person has been granted permission for such purpose by the
Board of Park Supervisors.
(Prior Code, § 5.0707) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall use, occupy, or be present in the public parks, controlled
by the city, during the following hours, without the express, written
authorization of the appointed Common Council Parks Committee:
   (A)   Terrace Park: Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
   (B)   College Memorial Park: Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 5.0709)
§ 92.09 CONSUMPTION IN PARK ALLOWED.
   The city will allow the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages in
city parks within city limits.
(Ord. 509, passed 8-4-2008)
Cross-reference:
   See also, unsealed liquor prohibited, §
114.08
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall be guilty of disorderly, unchaste, or lewd
conduct or habitual loafing or sleeping on the ground, benches, or premises, or
who shall engage in any quarrel or fight, or make or assist in making
disorderly noise or riot, or disturbance of the peace in any public park under
the control of the Common Council, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall
be punished upon conviction by a fine of not more than $100, or by confinement
in the city or county jail for not more than 30 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5.0708)
   (B)   Any such person violating §
92.08 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished upon conviction
by a fine of not more than $100, or by confinement in the city or county jail
for not more than 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 5.0709)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Short title
   
93.02   Purpose and declarations
   
93.03   Construction
   
93.04   Definitions
   
93.05   Discriminatory terms
   
93.06   Refusal to negotiate
   
93.07   Withholding housing
   
93.08   Advertisement, signs, and notices
   
93.09   Refusal of offers
   
93.10   Discrimination in lending
   
93.11   Licensing
   
93.12   Fairness in sale and rental of dwellings
   
93.13   Representation
   
93.14   Other violations
Fair Housing Board
   
93.25   Fair Housing Board
   
93.26   Composition of Fair Housing Board
   
93.27   Methods of appointment
   
93.28   Duties and powers
   
93.29   Complaints; conciliation
   
93.30   Hearings by Board
   
93.31   Enforcement
   
93.32   Limitation of time to file complaints
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Fair Housing Ordinance
of the City of Springfield, South Dakota.”
(Prior Code, § 13.0101)
§ 93.02 PURPOSE AND DECLARATIONS.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city and the purpose of this
chapter, in the exercise of said city, of its policy and regulatory powers for
the protection of the public and good government in said city to secure all
persons living and/or working or desiring to live and/or work in said city,
fair opportunity to purchase, lease, rent, or occupy real estate without
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status,
physical limitations, source of income, family responsibilities, educational
association, or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 13.0102)
§ 93.03 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms
and shall be liberally construed to further the purpose and policy stated in §
93.02 and the special purposes of the particular provision involved.
(Prior Code, § 13.0103)
§ 93.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AGE. Chronological age.
   BOARD. The Fair Housing Board.
   EDUCATION ASSOCIATION. The fact of being enrolled or not being enrolled at
any educational institution.
   FAMILY RESPONSIBILITIES. The state of being or the potential to become a
contributor to the support of an individual or individuals in a dependent
relationship.
   LEASE. Includes sublease, assignment, and rental; and includes any contract
to do any of the foregoing.
   LENDING INSTITUTION. Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan
association, or any other person in the business of lending money or
guaranteeing loans, any person of obtaining, arranging, or negotiating loans or
guarantees as agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying or
selling loans or instruments for the payment of money which are secured by
title to be security interest in real estate.
   MARITAL STATUS. The state of being married, unmarried, divorced, or widowed.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN. Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
   OWNER. Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, owns any beneficial
interest in any real property, or who holds legal or equitable title to shares
of, or who holds any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative which
owns any real estate cooperative which owns any real property.
   PANEL. A panel comprised of three or more members of the board, designated
by the Chairperson of the Board, to investigate and attempt to conciliate a
complaint filed or made under §§
93.25 through
93.32 of this chapter.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, legal representatives, mutual companies, unincorporated
organizations, trusts, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
   PHYSICAL LIMITATION.
      (1)   A limitation in physical capabilities unrelated to one’s ability to
safely perform the work involved in jobs or positions available to such person
for hire or promotion or a limitation of physical capabilities unrelated to
one’s ability to acquire, rent, and maintain property.
      (2)   PHYSICAL LIMITATION includes, but is not limited to, blindness or
partial sightedness, deafness, or hearing impairment, muteness, partial or
total absence of physical member, speech impairment and motor impairment.
   PURCHASE. Includes any contract to purchase.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT means any real estate salesperson, and any other person
who, as employee or agent or otherwise, engages in the management or operation
of any real property.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person licensed as a real estate broker in
accordance with the licensing requirements of the State of South Dakota, or
required thereby to be so licensed.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION. The purchase, sale, exchange, rental, or lease of
any real property, or an option to do any of the foregoing.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, or structure, or any
part thereof, within the city limits.
   SALE. Includes any contract to sell, exchange, or to convey, transfer,
assign legal or equitable title to or a beneficial interest in real property.
   SOURCE OF INCOME. Any legal source from which a person obtains money.
(Prior Code, § 13.0104)
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATORY TERMS.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any real estate broker, salesperson, agent, owner, or other person to sell or
rent, or offer to sell or rent real property on terms, conditions, or
privileges that discriminate between persons because of race, color, religion,
sex, age, marital status, physical limitations, source of income, family
responsibilities, educational association, or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 13.0201) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 REFUSAL TO NEGOTIATE.
   It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and a violation of this chapter
for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent, owner, or other person to
represent to any person that any real property is not available, or otherwise
hold real property from any person because of race, color, religion, sex, age,
marital status, physical limitations, source of income, family
responsibilities, educational association, or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 13.0202) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 WITHHOLDING HOUSING.
   It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and a violation of this chapter
for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent, owner, or other person to
represent to any person that any real property is not available, or otherwise
hold real property from any person because of race, color, religion, sex, age,
marital status, physical limitations, source of income, family
responsibilities, educational association, or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 13.0203) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 ADVERTISEMENT, SIGNS, AND NOTICES.
   It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and a violation of this chapter
for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent, owner, or other person to
publish or circulate a statement, advertisement, or notice or to post or erect
any sign or notice upon any real property indicating any intent to sell or
lease any real property in a manner that is unlawful under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.0204) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 92.09 REFUSAL OF OFFERS.
   It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and a violation of this chapter
for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent, or other person to refuse to
receive or to fail to transmit a bona fide offer for the purchase, sale,
exchange, or lease of any real property because of race, color, religion, sex,
age, marital status, physical limitations, source of income, family
responsibilities, educational association, or national origin of persons making
such offer.
(Prior Code, § 13.0205) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 DISCRIMINATION IN LENDING.
   It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and a violation of this chapter
for any lending institution to refuse to negotiate for, enter into, or perform
any agreement to lend or guarantee the loan of funds or in making, agreeing to
make, arranging, or negotiating any loan or guarantee of funds for the purpose
of financing the purchase or sale, construction, lease, rehabilitation,
improvement, renovation, or repair of any real property, or to offer or to
agree to terms, conditions, or privileges that discriminate between persons
because of race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status,, physical
limitations, source of income, family responsibilities, education association,
or national origin of any party to such agreement, or of any member of the
family of any such party, or of the residents of the area in which such real
property is located.
(Prior Code, § 13.0301) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 LICENSING.
   Every real estate broker or salesperson shall apply for and obtain a license
from the South Dakota Real Estate Commission, or other state administrative
agency charged with the responsibility for such licensing, prior to transacting
any business involving real estate as a real estate broker or salesperson and
prior to advertising or assuming to act as such real estate broker or
salesperson, as provided for under the laws of South Dakota.
(Prior Code, § 13.0302)
§ 93.12 FAIRNESS IN SALE AND RENTAL OF DWELLINGS.
   This chapter prohibits discrimination in the sale or rental of dwellings,
discrimination in the financing of housing, blockbusting, and discriminatory
advertising and makes it unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership
or participation in, any multiple listing service or real estate brokers’
organization for discriminatory reasons. This chapter is applicable to all
dwellings except those which are specifically exempt. This section does not
apply to the sale or rental of single-family house by a private individual
owner who does not own more than three such single-family houses at any one
time. This chapter does not apply to rooms or units in dwellings containing
living quarters occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other if the owner occupies one of such quarters as his or her residence.
(Prior Code, § 13.0303) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13 REPRESENTATION.
   It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and a violation of this chapter
for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent, or other person, for the
purpose of inducing any other person to enter into a real estate transaction
with such person, his or her principal, or agent, to:
   (A)   Represent that a change has occurred, will occur, or may occur, or may
occur with respect to race, color, religion, age, marital status, physical
limitations, source of income, family responsibilities, educational
association, or national origin in the composition of owners or occupants in
any block, neighborhood, or area in which the real property (which is the
subject of the real estate transaction) is located; or
   (B)   Represent that a change with respect to race, color, religion, age,
marital status, physical limitations, source of income, family
responsibilities, educational association, or national origin in the
composition of owners or occupants in any block, neighborhood, or area will
result in the lowering of property values, or in a decline in the quality of
schools in such blocks, neighborhood or area.
(Prior Code, § 13.0401) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14 OTHER VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and a violation of this chapter
for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent, owner, or any other person:
   (A)   To aid, abet, incite, or coerce a person to commit an unlawful real
estate practice under this chapter;
   (B)   To purchase, lease, or rent residential purposes, or to in his or her
employment or on his or her behalf solicit any other person to real estate for
authorize and direct one behalf to do so, or do so on his or her behalf for the
specific reason and intention of preventing any other person or persons from
purchasing, renting, leasing, or occupying such residential real estate by
reason of the race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical
limitations, source of income, family responsibilities, educational
association;
   (C)   To deliberately and knowingly refuse examination copies of any listing
of real property to any persons because of race, color, religion, sex, marital
status physical limitations, source of income, family responsibilities,
educational association, or national origin;
   (D)   To enter into a listing agreement which prohibits the inspection,
sale, lease, or occupancy of real property to any person because of race,
color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical limitations, source of
income, family responsibilities, educational association, or national origin;
   (E)   To knowingly and willfully interfere with the performance of a duty or
the exercise of a power by the Board or one of its members or representatives;
or
   (F)   To willfully obstruct or prevent or attempt to obstruct or prevent a
person from complying with the provisions of this chapter or an order issued
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 13.0402) Penalty, see §
93.99
FAIR HOUSING BOARD
§ 93.25 FAIR HOUSING BOARD.
   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Board, which shall consist of five
members, as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 13.0501)
§ 93.26 COMPOSITION OF FAIR HOUSING BOARD.
   All five members of the Board shall be appointed from the city at large and
shall be citizens who are willing to spend time and effort necessary to carry
out the duties of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 13.0502)
§ 93.27 METHODS OF APPOINTMENT.
   Members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City
Council. In the first instance, three members shall be appointed for a term of
three years, one for a term of two years, and one for a term of one year.
Thereafter, each member appointed shall serve for a term of three years or
until his or her successor is duly appointed and qualified. The Board shall
elect, one of its members to be its Chairperson. Three members shall constitute
a quorum, but the concurrence of the majority of the entire Board (obtained
either at a meeting of the Board or in a poll conducted by the Chairperson)
shall be necessary for Board action.
(Prior Code, § 13.0503)
§ 93.28 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The Board shall have and exercise the following duties and powers:
   (A)   To act as a citizens advisory committee for the City Council to strive
or act to eliminate unlawful real estate practices that violate this chapter;
   (B)   To encourage or act to assure to persons living, working, or desiring
to live or work in the community, an opportunity to purchase, lease, or occupy
real property without discrimination because of race, color, religion, age,
sex, marital status, physical limitations, source of income, family
responsibilities, educational association, or national origin;
   (C)   To receive, review, and/or investigate complaints alleging unlawful
real estate practices in violation of this chapter;
   (D)   To attempt to eliminate unfair real estate practices by conciliation,
conference, or persuasion;
   (E)   To hold public hearings or reviews in the event that its efforts under
division (D) above are ineffective or where it deems that such efforts will be
ineffective;
   (F)   To recommend to the City Council that the City Attorney be instructed
to commence appropriate court action against those the Board has deemed to be
in violation of this chapter;
   (G)   To recommend to the City Council to recommend to the South Dakota Real
Estate Commission investigation, suspension, and/or revocation of licenses of
real estate brokers and salespersons in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter;
   (H)   To render from time to time but not less than every 12 months, a
written report to the City Council of its activities and recommendations with
respect to fair real estate practices, which written reports shall be made
public after submission to the City Council; and
   (I)   To exercise such other powers as are vested in the Board by other
sections of this chapter and to adopt such rules and regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.0504)
§ 93.29 COMPLAINTS; CONCILIATION.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved in any manner of any violation of any provision
of this chapter may file with the Board a written verified complaint setting
forth his or her grievance. The complaint shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the complainant;
      (2)   The name and address of the person against whom the complaint is
brought, if known to the complainant; and
      (3)   The alleged facts surrounding the alleged violation of this
chapter. Said complaint shall state the names and addresses of all persons
believed to have knowledge concerning the alleged facts.
   (B)   After the filing of any complaint, the Board shall serve a copy of the
complaint on the party or parties charged and the Chairperson of the Board
shall designate a panel, as defined in §
93.04 of this chapter, to conduct a prompt review or investigation therewith.
   (C)   If such panel shall determine, after such investigation, that probable
cause exists for the allegations of the complaint:
      (1)   The Chairperson of the Board shall set a time and date for a
conference with the Board, said conference shall be in private; and
      (2)   At such conference, the Board shall interview the complainant and
the person or persons against whom the complaint has been directed and shall
attempt to resolve the complaint by proper methods of conciliation,
negotiation, and persuasion.
   (D)   If, at any time after the date of filing of the complaint, the Board
shall determine that such attempt at conciliation and persuasion would not be
in furtherance of the objectives of this chapter, the Board shall thereupon
proceed promptly to a full review or hearing on the complaint in accordance
with §
93.30.
(Prior Code, § 13.0505)
§ 93.30 HEARINGS BY BOARD.
   Such hearings shall be conducted by the entire Board or a quorum thereof
upon ten days’ notice to all parties. The Board shall have power to administer
oaths and to take sworn testimony. The Board shall have the power to subpoena
witnesses and pertinent documents, which power may be enforced by the Board by
proper petition to the District Court of the county where the complainant
resides. The complainant and any party alleged to have violated this chapter
shall be entitled to be represented by counsel and shall have the right to
defend himself or herself, to call witnesses on his or her own behalf, and to
cross-examine witnesses.
(Prior Code, § 13.0506)
§ 93.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If, upon all the evidence at the hearing, the Board deems that the
person complained of, has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, the
Board shall state its findings of fact and shall notify and inform the City
Council thereof, recommending that the City Council shall issue and cause to be
served upon such person, an order requiring such person to cease or desist from
such violation, and to take such affirmative or other action, as in the
judgment of the City Council will effectuate the purpose of this chapter,
including a report of the manner of compliance.
   (B)   If, upon all the evidence at the hearing, the Board deems that the
person complained of has not violated any of the provisions of this chapter,
the Board shall state its findings of fact and shall notify and inform the City
Council thereof, recommending that the City Council shall issue and cause to be
served upon such person, an order requiring such person to cease or desist from
such violation, and to take such affirmative or other action as, in the
judgment of the City Council, will effectuate the purpose of this chapter,
including a report of the manner of compliance.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the Board’s recommendation by the City Council, the
City Council shall retain jurisdiction of the case until it is satisfied by the
person to whom the order was directed has complied. The findings of fact by the
Board, the submission of findings and the recommendations of the Board to the
City Council, and any order deemed necessary to serve shall be issued within 45
days after the filing of the complaint and shall be delivered by the City
Police Department, or other designated City Council representative, to the
complainant and to the person charged.
   (D)   The Board shall be empowered at the conclusion of the proceedings held
under §
93.30, to recommend to the City Council to instruct the City Attorney to do any
one or more of the following:
      (1)   To institute and prosecute proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction to enforce against any person found in violation of this section
the fine provided for in §
93.99; and
      (2)   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for:
         (a)   An order restraining any person from violating any provision of
this chapter; and/or
         (b)   Such other future relief as may seem to the court appropriate
for the enforcement of this section and for the elimination of violation
hereof.
   (E)   To petition or institute proceedings with the South Dakota Real Estate
Commission for the purpose of causing the Commission to review, revoke,
suspend, or refuse to renew the license granted by such Commission to any real
estate broker or real estate salesperson found to have violated any provision
of this chapter.
   (F)   The Board is also empowered at the conclusion of the proceedings to
recommend to the City Council that said City Council shall, in turn, recommend
to the South Dakota Real Estate Commission the review, suspension, and/or
revocation of the real estate broker’s or real estate salesperson’s license of
any broker or salesperson licensed by the South Dakota Real Estate Commission
against whom a complaint shall have been filed and who shall have been a party
to any proceedings thus filed and deemed in violation of any applicable
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.0507)
§ 93.32 LIMITATION OF TIME TO FILE COMPLAINTS.
   Any complaint filed hereunder with the Board must be filed within 60 days
after the alleged discriminatory practice occurred or it shall be barred.
(Prior Code, § 13.0508)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General remedies. Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation
of any provision of this chapter who has exhausted the remedies provided in §§
93.29 and
93.30 who has exhausted the remedies provided in this chapter may apply to any
court jurisdiction for appropriate relief from such violation, including:
      (1)   An order compelling compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   An order to prohibit any person found by the court to have violated
any provision of this chapter from the sale, lease, exchange, transfer, a
conveyance, or assignment of any dwelling or housing which is the subject of
such violation;
      (3)   An order requiring specific performance of any contract for the
sale, lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance, or assignment of any dwelling or
housing, by any person who in violation of this chapter refuses to or fails to
perform such contract;
      (4)   Compensatory damages, and if appropriate, punitive damages; and
      (5)   Such other and further relief as maybe deemed appropriate to the
court for the enforcement of this chapter and the eliminations of violations
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 13.0601)
   (B)   Temporary court order. Any complainant under this chapter may apply to
a court of competent jurisdiction for an order temporarily prohibiting any
transaction affecting the real property which is the subject of the
complainant’s pending complaint under this chapter prior to final determination
by the Board, said Board’s recommendation to the City Council, and the
subsequent action of the City Council thereto, where the owner of said property
is one of the parties complained thereof.
(Prior Code, § 13.0602)
   (C)   Judicial review. Any party, complainant, or person aggrieved by an
order of the City Council, acting upon the recommendation of the Board, shall
have the right to obtain judicial review of such order.
(Prior Code, § 13.0603)
   (D)   Fines. Any person violating any provision of this chapter may, in
addition to revocation or suspension of the license herein acquired or in lieu
thereof, be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 13.0701)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATION
   Chapter
      
110.   REGULATION ON DAIRIES
      
111.   REGULATION ON GARBAGE COLLECTION
      
112.   ENTERTAINMENT AND LEISURE
      
113.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
      
116.   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: REGULATION ON DAIRIES
Section
   
110.01   License
   
110.02   Application
   
110.03   Tuberculin test; revocation of license
   
110.04   Inspection of premises
§ 110.01 LICENSE.
   No person shall engage, unless licensed by the state, in the sale of milk or
cream for domestic consumption within the city without first obtaining a
license therefor from the Health Department of the city. No such license shall
be transferable except upon the recommendation of the Superintendent of the
City Board of Health, approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 4.0501) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring a license to engage in the sale of milk or cream
for domestic uses in the city shall file with the Municipal Finance Officer a
written application addressed to the City Board of Health; the Municipal
Finance Officer shall present all such applications to the City Board of
Health, and each application shall be accompanied by a $1 fee payable on
January 1 of each year.
   (B)   The application for such license shall set forth, with reasonable
exactness, the following facts:
      (1)   The name and place of the residence of the applicant;
      (2)   The location or place from which the applicant obtains, or is to
obtain, milk and cream for distribution;
      (3)   If said applicant is a producer of milk and cream, the number of
cows in his or her dairy herd; and
      (4)   If the applicant is not a producer himself or herself, then the
names of the person or persons from whom he or she obtains, or is to obtain,
such milk and cream, and the number of cows in such herd or herds.
   (C)   Such application shall be accompanied by a certificate of a duly
licensed veterinarian showing:
      (1)   An examination and a tuberculin test have been made of the herd or
herds described in the application;
      (2)   The date and place of such test;
      (3)   The number of cows in the herd or herds tested with a general
description of the herd; and
      (4)   The said herd or herds have been found free from tuberculosis and
other contagious or communicable diseases.
   (D)   Said certificate shall be signed by the veterinarian making the test.
   (E)   Upon filing the application, accompanied by the certificate aforesaid,
the applicant may sell and distribute milk and cream until the City Board of
Health takes action thereon and either grants a license or refuses to do so.
   (F)   A person licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall notify
the Department of Health upon the addition of any producer or producers to his
or her source of supply and shall furnish a veterinarian’s certificate showing
the examination of each herd or herds from which milk or cream is secured as
above provided.
(Prior Code, § 4.0502)
§ 110.03 TUBERCULIN TEST; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No milk or cream shall be sold, offered, or exposed for sale or held
in possession for the purposes of sale within the city for domestic use unless
such milk or cream shall have been obtained from cows tested within one year
prior thereto by a duly licensed veterinarian, and which cows have given
satisfactory negative tuberculosis reaction.
   (B)   The test used shall be a test of recognized certainty and in current
use at the time of such testing.
   (C)   Failure or refusal by any licensee herein to comply with any of the
provisions of this section shall be ground for revoking the license held by
such person, and such revocation shall be accompanied by written notice to that
effect by the Municipal Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 4.0503) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   The City Board of Health shall have the authority to make inspections of
dairies or premises where milk, cream, or milk products are produced or
premises used in any manner whatsoever in connection with the production of
milk, cream, or milk products from which dairies or premises milk is sold in
the city for domestic use, and shall have authority to prohibit the sale for
human consumption of milk or cream which have not been produced or handled in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and for like causes shall have
power to revoke any licenses granted under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.0504)
CHAPTER 111: REGULATION ON GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
   
111.01   Office of collector
   
111.02   Collector’s license
   
111.03   Vehicle requirements
   
111.04   Parking of vehicle in residential district
§ 111.01 OFFICE OF COLLECTOR.
   It shall be the duty of a person having a license, as herein specified, for
the collection and removal of garbage and/or refuse to maintain an office
either at the place of residence of the person, or at some other place within
the city limits, with at least one telephone therein, which office shall be in
charge of some person from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. of each day, except Sunday
and legal holidays, for the purpose of receiving calls for the collection and
removal of garbage and refuse, and the receiving of such information as may be
conveyed to such collector.
(Prior Code, § 4.0305)
§ 111.02 COLLECTOR’S LICENSE.
   No collector shall haul any garbage in the city without having first
procured a license issued by the Municipal Finance Officer. After approval by
the Common Council, the Municipal Finance Officer shall issue a license to haul
garbage in the city to any person, upon presentation of a receipt showing that
the applicant has paid to the Municipal Finance Officer a sum equivalent to $10
per year, and shall expire on January 1, next following the date of issuance
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.0303)
§ 111.03 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   No garbage, debris, or refuse, excepting tree limbs and leaves, shall be
hauled on the streets of the city by any licensed garbage collector unless the
same is confined with an airtight box of the compressor-type, which shall not
permit the emitting of odors or the spilling of liquids. All vehicles used for
the purpose of hauling garbage shall be kept in a painted condition and in a
sanitary and sightly, condition and shall have attached thereto, on both sides,
a sign with the words “Licensed Garbage Collector,” painted thereon, together
with the number of the vehicle in bold letters and figures, each vehicle to be
separately numbered.
(Prior Code, § 4.0312)
§ 111.04 PARKING OF VEHICLE IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or park any wagon,
trailer, truck, or other vehicle used for hauling garbage, livestock, or
refuse, on or adjacent to property classified by the provisions of this chapter
for residence purposes, except for such period of time as is necessary for the
expeditious collecting of such garbage, livestock, or refuse from such
property.
(Prior Code, § 4.0317)
CHAPTER 112: ENTERTAINMENT AND LEISURE
Section
Public Dance Halls
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Unlawful without license
   
112.03   License
   
112.04   License fee
   
112.05   Minors not allowed
   
112.06   Lighting grounds
   
112.07   Hours of operation
   
112.08   Supervision
Gambling
   
112.20   Unlawful devices
   
112.21   Public nuisance
 
   
112.99   Penalty
PUBLIC DANCE HALLS
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC DANCE HALL. Any building, place, or space open to public patronage,
in which dancing wherein the public may participate, is carried on and to which
admission may be had by the public by payment either directly or indirectly of
an admission fee or price for dancing, for the personal gain or profit of the
person, firm, or corporation conducting, maintaining, or operating such dance
hall.
(Prior Code, § 6.0602)
§ 112.02 UNLAWFUL WITHOUT LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation to
conduct, operate, or maintain a public dance hall within the city without first
obtaining a license therefor from the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.0601) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation desiring to conduct,
maintain, or operate any public dance hall within the city shall make
application to the Common Council of said city for permission therefor, which
application shall state the location of the room, place, hall, or building, the
name of the person or persons intending to operate the same.
   (B)   If said application shall be considered favorably, the Municipal
Finance Officer shall issue a license to such applicant upon the payment of the
license fee hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 6.0603)
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee will be reviewed by the Common Council from time to time and
set by resolution. All such license fees are to be credited to the General Fund
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.0604)
§ 112.05 MINORS NOT ALLOWED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation
engaged in conducting or operating a public dance hall in the city to suffer,
permit, or allow any person under the age of 18 years, unaccompanied by his or
her father, mother, or legally appointed guardian, to enter or remain in said
dance hall.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons under the age of 18
years, unaccompanied by his or her father or mother, or legally appointed
guardian, to enter or remain in said dance hall.
(Prior Code, § 6.0605) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 LIGHTING GROUNDS.
   It shall be the duty of the person or persons, firm, corporation, or manager
in charge of such public dance hall within the city to provide adequate
illumination for the purpose of lighting all of the adjoining grounds used by
the participants in connection with such public dance hall, and all of said
grounds adjoining said public dance hall and used in connection therewith shall
be lighted during the entire time that such public dance hall shall be used for
dancing at night.
(Prior Code, § 6.0607)
§ 112.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation owning,
controlling, or operating a public dance hall within the city to suffer,
permit, or allow the same to be open, or dances participated therein, between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 6.0608) Penalty, §
112.99
§ 112.08 SUPERVISION.
   (A)   Such dance halls shall be open at all times when dances are being held
to the police officers of the city, and such police officers may enter such
halls at any time and may remove any person found to be in an intoxicated
condition or offending against morality, decency, or violating any law of the
state or any ordinance of the city.
   (B)   The Common Council, if they deem it necessary, may require the
employment of a matron or special officer to supervise dances conducted in a
public dance hall, such matron or officer to be appointed by the Common Council
at a fixed compensation to be paid by the person or persons, firm, or
corporation operating such dance hall.
(Prior Code, § 6.0609)
GAMBLING
§ 112.20 UNLAWFUL DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have on, in, or about his or her
premises, any slot machines or other like device within the city or within one
mile of the limits thereof, whether the same is played for money, chips,
credit, or other representatives of value.
(Prior Code, § 10.0302) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All gambling equipment, including cards, dice, tables, and any other thing
used in connection with gambling and all slot machines used or operated in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter, are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and upon the conviction of any person
under the provisions of this subchapter, all such equipment seized in
connection therewith, shall be destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 10.0303)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §§
112.01 through
112.08 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100, or by imprisonment
not exceeding 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment; the Common Council
may revoke any license under the provision of this §§
112.01 through
112.08.
(Prior Code, § 6.0610)
   (C)   Any person who shall, in the city or within one mile from the outer
limits thereof, or within any of the public parks of the city or within one
mile of the outer limits thereof, in accordance with §§
112.20 and
112.21 keep or conduct a house or place restored to for the purpose of
gambling, or permit or suffer within said limits any person in any house, shop,
or place under his or her control to play at cards, dice, faro, roulette, or
other games for money or other thing, or things representing money or property,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10.0301)
CHAPTER 113: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
Peddlers and Transient Merchants
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   Municipal policy on soliciting
   
113.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
113.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Family day care homes; regulation and standards of care, see SDCL § 9-29-26
PEDDLERS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the municipality and
who, in the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure,
vehicle, or any place within the municipality.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells, or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the municipality.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the municipality.
   (B)   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferable.
   (C)   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall cost $20 per day, $50
per month, and $120 per year. Fees may be reviewed by the Common Council from
time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this subchapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the municipality;
         (a)   The local address of such individual;
         (b)   The permanent address of such individual; or
         (c)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services to be
offered for sale or delivered;
      (6)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
      (7)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or grown,
and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (8)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (9)   A copy of the Sales Tax License.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and/or
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this subchapter shall attach
to their application, if required by the municipality, credentials from the
person, if any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing
the applicant to act as such representative.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare.
   (C)   In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (2)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like.
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this subchapter may be revoked by the
City Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint. Such notice shall be mailed or
delivered to the licensee at his or her last known address.
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this subchapter may be revoked for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this subchapter; or
   (D)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the
public.
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the governing body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the governing body, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The governing body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05. The order of the governing body after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this subchapter
shall be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event
more than one place within the municipality shall be used to conduct the
business licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this subchapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler or Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 MUNICIPAL POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the municipality that the
occupants of the residences in the municipality shall make the determination of
whether solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective
residences.
§ 113.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third of an inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 113.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
municipality upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
113.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises. Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and license transient merchants, peddlers, see SDCL §
9-34-7
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Liquor Regulations; Licensing, Sales
   
114.01   Licenses
   
114.02   Liquor sales limits
   
114.03   Unobstructed street view
   
114.04   Visible liquor sales
   
114.05   Gambling on premises
   
114.06   Intoxicated persons
   
114.07   Sales to certain persons
   
114.08   Unsealed liquor prohibited
   
114.09   Hours, days of operation
Malt Beverage Licensees
   
114.20   Definition of terms
   
114.21   Statutory changes
   
114.22   Duties of licensee
   
114.23   Authority to assess markup
   
114.24   Inventory from city required
   
114.25   Rate of markup
   
114.26   Duties of wholesaler; distributor
 
   
114.99   Penalty
LIQUOR REGULATIONS; LICENSING, SALES
§ 114.01 LICENSES.
   No person shall sell, exchange, barter, distribute, or keep for sale any
intoxicating liquor nor any distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous, malt
beverages, or other beverages containing alcohol, except sacramental wine,
without first having obtained a license therefor pursuant to the provision
state and/or federal laws.
(Prior Code, § 6.0801)
§ 114.02 LIQUOR SALES LIMITS.
   The Common Council shall not approve any on sale or off sale applications
unless said applicant’s place of business is situated within the then existing
business or commercially zoned district of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.0802)
§ 114.03 UNOBSTRUCTED STREET VIEW.
   The place of business of a beer or liquor dealer shall be a room situated
upon the street level, and the windows of said room shall be unobstructed so
that clear view of the interior thereof may be had from the front of said
building, and it shall not have any exit therefrom except from the front and
rear of said building, and the rear entrance shall not enter into any other
room or building.
(Prior Code, § 6.0803)
§ 114.04 VISIBLE LIQUOR SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any dealers to sell liquor, malt beverages, or beer
to any person who is not in complete view of every other person in the licensed
premises and also observable from any and all points thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.0804) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 GAMBLING ON PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any beer or liquor dealer to permit or allow to be
played in his or her licensed premises any games of chance, or to permit any
public dancing, unless subsequently and specifically allowed by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 6.0805) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit any intoxicated person to
enter or remain on his or her said premises, and it shall be unlawful for any
licensee to permit any person to become intoxicated on his or her licensed
premises.
(Prior Code, § 6.0807) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any liquor, malt beverage, or beer licensee
to sell any intoxicating liquor, malt beverage, or beer to any person who is
intoxicated at the time, or who is known to such seller to be a habitual, or to
any person to whom he or she has been requested not to sell by any member of
the Liquor Control Commission, agent of the State Department of Justice and
Public Safety, police officer, wife, mother, father, brother, sister, or child
of such person, or to any spendthrift, insane, or feeble-mined person, or to
any person who is known to be supported in whole or in part by a charitable
association or institution.
   (B)   Provided, however, that the request mentioned herein shall be in
writing and the person making such request, in order to make a record thereof,
may compel any licensee to endorse an admission of service on the original or a
copy of such request when presented, and provided further that if any licensee
shall refuse to admit service on said request, the person making the same may,
at the time thereof, make an affidavit setting forth such service, and may file
such affidavit with the original or a copy of such request with the Liquor
Control Commission where such request and affidavit shall be filed for the
future use of any person interested therein.
(Prior Code, § 6.0806) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 UNSEALED LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   No person shall take, carry, or have in his or her possession upon a street,
alley, or sidewalk, or public grounds of the city any opened can, bottle, or
other container in which there shall be any quantity of liquor.
(Prior Code, § 6.0808) (Ord. 508, passed 12-7-2015) Penalty, see §
114.99
Cross-reference:
   See also, consumption in park allowed, §
92.09
§ 114.09 HOURS, DAYS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   All provisions of SDCL § 35-4, “Sale of Beverages,” as amended,
pertaining to liquor sales limited to certain hours shall apply for the
purposes and intent of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner or proprietor of such licensed
premises or establishment to comply with this section and all provisions of
SDCL § 35-4, as amended. The city shall serve or allow to be consumed any
alcoholic beverages on the premises covered by the license during any other
hours, as per SDCL § 35-4.
(Prior Code, § 6.0809) (Ord. 490, passed 10-4-2010)
MALT BEVERAGE LICENSEES
§ 114.20 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   When not consistent with the context, words used in present tense
include the present and future; words in plural number include singular number;
and words in the singular number shall include the plural number. The word
“shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      CITY. The City of Springfield, South Dakota.
      MALT BEVERAGE. Shall conform to the meaning intended by SDCL § 35-4.2 as
principally a liquor with malt-base derivative, commonly referred to as beer.
It shall not include other alcoholic beverages.
      MALT BEVERAGE LICENSEE. Shall conform to the definition intended by SDCL
§ 35-4.2. ON-SALE and OFF-SALE LICENSEES shall be defined in accordance with
statutory licensing definitions established by state statutes.
      MARKUP. A percentage applied to, or calculated on, the total invoice,
including transportation charges (commonly referred to as the cost of goods
“laid in”). The MARKUP shall be based on the combined total cost of the goods
purchased plus the transportation, if any.
      PURCHASE. When referring to the licensee, shall mean the purchase,
acquisition, buying, inventory replenishment, and/or acceptance of delivery or
possession by the licensee for resale. Presence of malt beverages on the
premises shall be construed as having been PURCHASED, whether acquired by gift,
transfer from another source, brought in or transferred onto the licensee’s
premises from the owner’s supplies elsewhere, or from any other source or
method resulting in placing of malt beverages on or in the premises of the
licensee.
      WHOLESALER, DISTRIBUTOR or SUPPLIER. Shall refer to the wholesaler,
provider, distributor, supplier, transporter, deliverer, and/or any other
person or firm making malt beverages available to the licensee for resale; or
one who transfers possession thereof, whether actively or constructively
involved in such activity, or through an agent or employee.
(Prior Code, § 6.0903)
§ 114.21 STATUTORY CHANGES.
   SDCL § 35-4, as amended, created a one-strength malt beverage license, which
allows such licensees to sell any strength of malt beverage available in the
state.
(Prior Code, § 6.0901)
§ 114.22 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The licensee shall keep an accurate accounting of all malt beverage
purchases made during each calendar month.
   (B)   The licensee shall furnish such accounting to the Municipal Finance
Officer of the city, a written record of such purchases made during each
calendar month, and shall furnish such accounting within five days after the
end of the calendar month.
   (C)   Upon reconciliation of the invoices supplied by the wholesaler or
distributor with the accounting data provided by the licensee, the Municipal
Finance Officer shall calculate the markup amount due and payable to the city
by the licensee, and shall send a billing therefor to the licensee.
   (D)   Upon receiving a billing from the Municipal Finance Officer, the
licensee shall remit and/or pay the full amount due and payable each month on,
or before, the fifth day after such billing date.
   (E)   (1)   The licensee may be required by the city to pay a fine for
repeat tardiness or non-submission of the accounting data or the monthly markup
payment liability occurring within 12 consecutive months.
      (2)   First notice of tardiness or non-submission by the licensee to the
city shall pay a $50 fine; a second occurrence of tardiness or non-submission,
a fine of one hundred dollars $100; third occurrence may be subject to
termination of license.
(Prior Code, § 6.0907) (Ord. 503, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 114.23 AUTHORITY TO ASSESS MARKUP.
   (A)   SDCL § 35-4, as amended, created certain rights, powers,
authorizations, and/or requirements as they relate to the relationship of such
malt beverage licensees to cities operating on-sale and/or off-sale municipal
liquor stores.
   (B)   Accordingly, the city was authorized thereby to require beverage
licensees to make purchases from/through the city, and the city was authorized
to charge such licensees a discretionary markup ranging up to 10% of the gross
sales of such licensees.
(Prior Code, § 6.0902)
§ 114.24 INVENTORY FROM CITY REQUIRED.
   All on-sale and off-sale malt beverage licensees within the corporate limits
of the city shall purchase their malt beverage supplies and merchandise for
resale from the city. This shall be accomplished through the following
procedure or arrangement:
   (A)   Licensees will make all malt beverage purchases from the wholesalers
or distributors; and
   (B)   Licensees shall pay the wholesalers or distributors directly for such
purchases, but such licensees shall thereafter pay a required markup
traditionally to the city as specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 6.0904)
§ 114.25 RATE OF MARKUP.
   Payments of 5% markup on all invoices for purchases of malt beverage
supplies for resale, as described in this subchapter, shall be made by all
licensees to the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.0905)
§ 114.26 DUTIES OF WHOLESALER; DISTRIBUTOR.
   It shall be the duty of any, and all, wholesalers and/or distributors
selling and/or delivering malt beverages to licensees to do the following, so
the city may establish and maintain control for compliance with the markup
payment liability.
   (A)   The wholesaler or distributor shall require the retail licensees, or
the licensee’s agent, to sign the invoice immediately upon the purchase by the
licensee and/or delivery or transfer of possession of malt beverage supplies by
the wholesaler or distributor to the licensee.
   (B)   The wholesaler or distributor shall provide a signed copy of each such
invoice to the Municipal Finance Officer of the city, under either of the
following options:
      (1)   Immediately after the sale and/or delivery of such malt beverage
supplies to the licensee; or
      (2)   Maintaining a complete accumulation of all invoices for each
calendar month, submitting such monthly accumulations or invoices at one time,
and within five days following the end of each calendar month.
(Prior Code, § 6.0906)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
114.01 through
114.09 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction shall be punished by
a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100, or by a jail sentence of not
less than 15 days nor more than 30 days, or by both fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 6.0810)
CHAPTER 115: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Purpose and intent
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   City neutrality regarding applicants
   
115.04   Number of dispensaries
   
115.05   Hours of operation
   
115.06   Liability for violations
Licensing
   
115.20   License required
   
115.21   Application
   
115.22   Issuance
   
115.23   Expiration and renewal
   
115.24   Suspension
   
115.25   Revocation
   
115.26   Suspension and revocation process
   
115.27   Appeal
   
115.28   Licenses not transferable
 
   
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The Common Council enacts this chapter in order to ensure that cannabis
establishments within the municipal boundaries of the city operate in a manner
which complies with state laws and regulations, protects the health, safety,
and welfare of the general public, prevents potential conflicts and issues
arising from ownership and employees, recognizes certain safety and security
considerations, and minimizes risk of unauthorized use or access of cannabis by
the general public.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS ( MARIJUANA). All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis, whether
growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying or curing
and crushing or crumbling.
      (1)   The term includes an altered state of marijuana absorbed into the
human body.
      (2)   The term does not include fiber produced from the mature stalks of
such plant, or oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant.
      (3)   The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L., and any
part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives, extracts,
cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or
not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than three-
tenths of 1% on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, this
term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. Cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
      CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally authorized to
analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Health.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.03 CITY NEUTRALITY REGARDING APPLICANTS.
   (A)   Upon request from the Department as to the city’s preference of
applicants, the city will neither support nor oppose any registration
certificate application under consideration by the Department.
   (B)   Likewise, if inquiry is made by the Department, the city will abstain
from endorsing any application as beneficial to the community.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.04 NUMBER OF DISPENSARIES.
   No more than one cannabis dispensary shall be allowed to operate in the city
at any time.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No cannabis dispensary may operate between the hours of 6:01 p.m. and 8:59
a.m. Monday through Saturday, and not on Sunday.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.06 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter,
an act by an employee or agent of a cannabis establishment that constitutes
grounds for suspension or revocation will be imputed to the cannabis
establishment license holder for purposes of finding a violation of this
chapter, or for purposes of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if
an officer, director, or general partner, or a person who managed, supervised,
or controlled the operation of the cannabis establishment, knowingly allowed
such act to occur on the premises.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
LICENSING
§ 115.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment license issued
by the city pursuant to this chapter. A violation of this provision is subject
to the general penalty provision in §
115.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment registration
certificate issued by the Department pursuant to rules promulgated under SDCL §
34-20G.
      (2)   A violation of this provision is subject to the general penalty
provision in §
115.99. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.21 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a cannabis establishment license must be made on a
form provided by the city. No other application form will be considered.
   (B)   The applicant must submit the following:
      (1)   Application fee of $5,000; and
      (2)   An application that will include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The legal name of the prospective cannabis establishment;
         (b)   The physical address of the prospective cannabis establishment
that meets the zoning requirements in § 125.225, as well as any location
requirements pursuant to SDCL § 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated
thereunder;
         (c)   The name, address, and birth date of each principal officer,
owner, and board member of the proposed cannabis establishment;
         (d)   A sworn statement that no principal officer, owner, or board
member has been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years
in any jurisdiction; and
         (e)   Any additional information requested by the city.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.22 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The city will issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant has made a false statement on the application or
submits false records or documentation;
      (2)   Any owners, principal officer, or board member of the applicant is
under the age of 21 years;
      (3)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
been convicted of a violent felony offense in the previous ten years in any
jurisdiction;
      (4)   The proposed location does not meet the applicable zoning
requirements under § 152.225;
      (5)   The proposed location does not meet all location requirements under
SDCL § 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder;
      (6)   The license is to be used for a business prohibited by state or
local law, statute, rule, ordinance, or regulation;
      (7)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
had a cannabis establishment license revoked by the city or a registration
certificate revoked by the state;
      (8)   An applicant, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties
assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to any cannabis
establishment; or
      (9)   The applicant will not be operating the business for which the
license would be issued.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a cannabis dispensary license, the
city will reject the application if the limit on the number of cannabis
dispensaries has been reached.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the cannabis establishment so that it may be easily read at any
time.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.23 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   (1)   Each license expires one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
115.21.
      (2)   Application for renewal must be submitted at least 30 days before
the expiration date. The license holder must continue to meet the license
requirements to be eligible for a renewal.
   (B)   The renewal fee is $5,000.
   (C)   Failure to renew a license in accordance with this section may result
in additional fees. Upon expiration of the license, the city may order closure
of the cannabis establishment.
   (D)   If a license holder has not operated an establishment for which it
holds a license in the preceding 12 months, the license will not be renewed.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.24 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A license may be suspended if the license holder or an employee or
agent of the licence holder:
      (1)   Violates or is otherwise not in compliance with any section of this
chapter;
      (2)   Consumes, smokes, or allows any person to consume or smoke,
cannabis on the premises of the cannabis establishment; or
      (3)   Knowingly dispenses or provides cannabis or cannabis products to an
individual or business to whom it is unlawful to provide cannabis or cannabis
products.
   (B)   A license may be suspended if the license holder has its Department-
issued registration certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed by the
Department, or if the registration certificate is expired. A license may be
suspended if the license holder creates, or allow to be created, a public
nuisance at the cannabis establishment.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.25 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A license may be revoked if the license is suspended under this
section and the cause for the suspension is not remedied.
   (B)   A license may be revoked if the license is subject to suspension under
this section because of a violation outlined in this section, and the license
has been previously suspended in the preceding 24 months.
   (C)   A license is subject to revocation if a license holder or employee of
a license holder:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of non-cannabis
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   Operated the cannabis establishment, or the business of the
cannabis establishment for which a license is required under this chapter,
while the license was suspended;
      (4)   Repeated violations of §
115.26;
      (5)   Operated a function of a cannabis establishment for which the
license holder was not licensed (for example, a licensed cannabis cultivation
facility conducting cannabis testing functions without a cannabis testing
establishment license);
      (6)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state for any taxes
or fees related to the cannabis establishment;
      (7)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, has been convicted of, or continues to employ an employee who has been
convicted of, a DISQUALIFYING FELONY OFFENSE, as defined by SDCL § 34-20G;
      (8)   The license holder has its Department-issued registration
certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed, or the registration certificate
is expired; or
      (9)   The license holder allows a public nuisance to continue after
notice from the city.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.26 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The license holder will receive a notice of intent to suspend or
notice of intent to revoke informing the license holder of the violation and
the city’s intention to suspend or revoke the license. The notice will be hand
delivered to the license holder or an employee, or agent of the license holder,
or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to the physical address of
the cannabis establishment.
   (B)   If the license holder disputes the suspension or revocation, the
license holder has ten days from the postmark date on the notice or the date
the notice was hand delivered to request a hearing before a hearing panel,
which will consist of the Mayor, Finance Officer, City Attorney, and Common
Council.
   (C)   A suspension will be for 30 days and begins ten days after the
postmark-date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered, unless
the license holder exercises its rights to process and appeal, in which case
the suspension takes effect upon the final determination of suspension.
   (D)   A revocation will be for one year and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder appeals the revocation, in which case the revocation takes
effect upon the final determination of revocation.
   (E)   The license holder who has had the license revoked may not be issued
any cannabis establishment license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.27 APPEAL.
   An applicant or license holder who has been denied a license or renewal of a
license, or who has had a license suspended or revoked under this chapter, may
appeal to the Common Council by submitting a written appeal within ten days of
the postmark on the notice of denial, non-renewal, suspension, or revocation.
The written appeal must be submitted to City Hall P.O. Box 446, Springfield,
South Dakota, 57062. The appeal will be considered by the Common Council at a
regularly scheduled meeting within one month of the receipt of the appeal.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.28 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No cannabis establishment license holder may transfer the license to any
other person or entity either with or without consideration, nor may a license
holder operate a cannabis establishment at any place other than the address
designated in the application.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who operates, or causes to be operated, a cannabis establishment
without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for chapter violations. Such violations
are punishable by a maximum fine of $500. Each day a cannabis establishment so
operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. 608, passed 11-15-2021)
CHAPTER 116: RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
116.01   Inspection of food
   
116.02   Persons handling food
   
116.03   Cleansing of eating and drinking utensils
   
116.04   Protection of food against contamination
   
116.05   Disposal of food unfit for human use
§ 116.01 INSPECTION OF FOOD.
   The city reserves the right to appoint a City Board of Health, or to operate
under the alternative of turning over appropriated matters to the State Board
of Health. Such a City Board of Health, either by its Superintendent or other
dully authorized representative, shall have the right to inspect all articles
of food offered or intended for sale by stores, bakeries, meat markets, dealers
in milk and cream, vegetables, and other food or foods relative to the
condition of such foods and the place or places where the same are kept.
(Prior Code, § 4.0401)
§ 116.02 PERSONS HANDLING FOOD.
   No person who is affected with any communicable diseases in a transmittable
stage shall be employed as a handler of food in any restaurant, hotel, lunch
counter, ice cream parlor, tea room, soda fountain, or other place where food
or drink is served or in any dairy, milk, or cream station in the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.0402)
§ 116.03 CLEANSING OF EATING AND DRINKING UTENSILS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, proprietor, or person in charge of any
restaurant, hotel, tea room, lunch counter, ice cream parlor, soda fountain or
any other place where food or drink is sold or served, to thoroughly cleanse
all dishes, cups, drinking glasses, and eating utensils immediately after being
used by washing them in a strong solution of washing soda or sap in hot water
and rinsing in clear hot water, or by thorough sterilization by some other
equally effective method approved by the state or local Board of Health.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of paper cups, dishes, or other
single service containers, provided that they be used once only and immediately
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 4.0403)
§ 116.04 PROTECTION OF FOOD AGAINST CONTAMINATION.
   Every person, firm, or corporation engaged in the sale of any of the food
stuffs enumerated in this chapter shall cause the same to be properly protected
by screens, refrigeration, or otherwise against contamination by flies, street
dust, or any other agency.
(Prior Code, § 4.0404)
§ 116.05 DISPOSAL OF FOOD UNFIT FOR HUMAN USE.
   Whenever any articles intended as food or drink for human use is found being
offered or exposed for sale or in possession of any dealer with intent to sell,
which is unfit for human use, the Department of Health and its Superintendent,
or other authorized agent, shall order its removal and disposal. In case the
owner or person in charge shall fail to immediately observe said order, the
Health Department shall proceed to enforce it at the expense of the owner or
person in charge.
(Prior Code, § 4.0405)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   REGULATIONS OF MINORS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER, SAFETY, AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: REGULATIONS OF MINORS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Liquor-licensed premises; prohibitions
Curfew for Minors
   
130.15   Curfew
   
130.16   Parental responsibility
   
130.17   Exceptions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 LIQUOR-LICENSED PREMISES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All provisions of SDCL § 35-4, as amended, pertaining to
exclusion of persons under the age of 21 from on-sale liquor-licensed premises
shall apply for the purposes and intent of this section.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 may sell, serve, or dispense
alcoholic beverages, nor may such person(s) loiter on on-sale licensed
premises. It shall be the duty of the owner or proprietor of such licensed
premises or establishment to comply with this section and all provisions of
SDCL § 35-4, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 10.0401)
   (B)   All provisions of SDCL § 35-4, as amended, pertaining to sales of malt
beverages and/or other alcoholic beverages on off-sale liquor-licensed premises
by persons less than 21 years of age shall apply for the purposes and intent of
this section and as they also pertain to the duties of the owner or proprietor.
(Prior Code, § 10.0402)
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.15 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      (2)   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not
limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss
of life.
      (3)   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      (4)   GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      (5)   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      (6)   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
      (7)   PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      (8)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group
of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets,
highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office
buildings, transport facilities, and shops.
      (9)   REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      (10)   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial
risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew
hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a exemption to division (B) that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (I)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) is
present.
§ 130.16 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent(s), guardian(s), or other adult person
standing in the place of parent or guardian having the care and custody of the
minor under the age of 16 years to permit such minor to loiter, idle, wander,
stroll, or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks
and playgrounds, public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of
amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised places, or upon
the private property of others to constitute trespass between the hours of 11:
00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
(Prior Code, § 10.0405) (Ord. 427, passed 2-7-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   Exception to this subchapter is granted for cases or situations after the
hour of 11:00 p.m. under the following extenuating circumstances(s).
   (A)   When the minor is performing duties of employment specifically
assigned during such hours of curfew, or when the minor is returning directly
home from employment, public entertainment, athletic games, or other activity
sponsored by the public school, church, or community, and:
      (1)   The minor has participated in such event or activity to the
cessation of such event or activity;
      (2)   The event or activity has extended beyond a time which has made a
return before 11:00 p.m. an impossibility; and
      (3)   The minor returns directly home upon leaving or cessation of such
event or activity.
   (B)   The absence of any one of the above conditions for exception shall be
prima facie evidence that the minor is in violation of the curfew, and no
reasonable excuse exists therefor.
(Prior Code, § 10.0406) (Ord. 427, passed 2-7-1996)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
130.15 shall be subject to arrest by any public officer, or any citizen without
process.
      (1)   Upon such first arrest, the offender shall be taken and delivered
into the hands of the parent, guardian, or adult person legally in charge or
standing in the place of the parent or guardian.
      (2)   Upon second or subsequent violation(s) and/or arrest(s), such
offender shall be taken by such officer or person, or cause to be made to
appear or be placed in custody of a juvenile court of jurisdiction, magistrate,
or other appropriate presiding court officer or judge.
      (3)   Upon conviction of a violation of §
130.15, such violator shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $25, by
imprisonment not exceeding three days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 10.0404)
   (C)   Upon conviction of a violation of §
130.16, such parent(s), guardian(s), or other adult person standing in the
place of a parent or guardian having care and custody of such minor shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $50, by imprisonment not exceeding five days,
or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 10.0405)
(Ord. 427, passed 2-7-1996)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER, SAFETY, AND PROPERTY
Section
Disturbing the Peace
   
131.01   Public intoxication
   
131.02   Unlawful assembly
   
131.03   Indecent conduct
   
131.04   Automobile disturbance
   
131.05   Obscene written or printed matter
   
131.06   Disturbing the peace
   
131.07   Sports likely to pose a safety threat
Assault and Battery
   
131.20   Assault and battery
Public Property
   
131.35   Willful injury to public, private property
   
131.36   Malicious mischief
   
131.37   Larceny
Fireworks and Deadly Weapons
   
131.50   Provisions regarding fireworks
   
131.51   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
131.52   Carrying concealed weapons prohibited
Vagrancy
   
131.65   Definition
   
131.66   Loitering prohibited
 
   
131.99   Penalty
DISTURBING THE PEACE
§ 131.01 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be or appear in any public place in
the city, including its public parks, in a state of intoxication or
drunkenness, or to be found intoxicated therein.
(Prior Code, § 10.0101) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any two or more persons to assemble together within
the limits of the city for the purpose of doing, or conspiring to do, any
unlawful act with force or violence against the person or property of another
or against the peace and dignity of the city, or in any manner for the purpose
of terrorizing or frightening any person, family, or neighborhood within said
city.
(Prior Code, § 10.0102) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 INDECENT CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place in a state
of nudity or to indulge in any indecent, lewd, or lascivious conduct or
behavior, or to commit any indecent, wanton, or filthy act in the presence or
hearing of any person, or to use vile, profane, or vulgar language in any
public place in the presence or hearing of any other person.
(Prior Code, § 10.0107) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 AUTOMOBILE DISTURBANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drive upon or about the
streets of the city in such a way as to disturb the peace and quiet of any of
the inhabitants of the city by unnecessarily sounding or honking automobile
horns or by excessive motor or muffler noise either in the daytime or at night.
(Prior Code, § 10.0109) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 OBSCENE WRITTEN OR PRINTED MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit, sell, offer for sale, or to
distribute or dispose of in any manner in the city any indecent, lewd, or
immoral book, picture, print, or other thing, or to exhibit any indecent,
immoral, or lewd play, show, or other representation.
(Prior Code, § 10.0110) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the peace of the city or of any person by violent,
tumultuous, offensive, or indecent conduct, or by loud or unusual noises, or by
profane, obscene, indecent, violent, or threatening language, or by assaulting,
striking, or attempting to assault or strike another person, or inviting or
defying another person to fight or quarrel, or by engaging in a fight with
another person, or by willfully and maliciously destroying or attempting to
destroy or injure any property belonging to another, or by taking of personal
property accomplished by stealth or fraud and with intent to deprive another
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10.0104) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 SPORTS LIKELY TO POSE A SAFETY THREAT.
   No person or persons shall, upon the public streets of the city, fly any
kite, throw stones, clods, or snowballs, roll hoops, throw balls, or engage in
any sport or exercise liable to pose a safety threat, or obstruct any lawful
business of any person or be liable to result in the injury of persons lawfully
on the streets, or injury to buildings or windows adjacent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 10.0505)
ASSAULT AND BATTERY
§ 131.20 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and unlawfully or
maliciously commit any assault or assault and battery against another person.
(Prior Code, § 10.0106) Penalty, see §
131.99
PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 131.35 WILLFUL INJURY TO PUBLIC, PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry away or remove, or to
willfully, maliciously, or negligently break, or deface, destroy, or otherwise
injure, any bridge, crossing, culvert, sidewalk, lamp or lamp post, or any
ornamental or shade tree, shrub, railing, fence or other property, article, or
thing belonging to the city or belonging to any private person therein.
(Prior Code, § 10.0501) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.36 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any way, injure, damage, break,
or destroy any plant, flower, or shrub being or growing upon the private
property of another, or to injure, damage, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub
on the parking space adjacent to property owned or controlled by another.
(Prior Code, § 10.0105) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.37 LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take, or attempt to take, from any
other person or any store, building, or other place within the city by fraud or
stealth, or by any manner any money, property, or anything of value, tangible
or intangible, with the intent to deprive the owner of such property.
(Prior Code, § 10.0108) Penalty, see §
131.99
FIREWORKS AND DEADLY WEAPONS
§ 131.50 PROVISIONS REGARDING FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to see or
offer for sale, or gift, within the city any fireworks, firecrackers,
torpedoes, Roman candles, skyrockets, or any other form or manner of fireworks
earlier than June 27 nor later than July 5 of any year, nor to discharge the
same within the city except during the days limited to the sale thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.0401)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell,
peddle, distribute, or offer for sale any fireworks, torpedoes, Roman candles,
skyrockets, or any other kind of character of fireworks in Block 25, Block 26,
Block 27, Block 28, Block 29, Block 32, Block 33, Block 34, Block 35, and/or
Block 36.
(Prior Code, § 8.0403)
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
discharge any fireworks, torpedoes, Roman candles, skyrockets, or any other
kind of character of fireworks:
         (a)   Within city limits between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., except July 4, when the 11:00 p.m. hour shall be extended to 12:00 a.m.
July 5;
         (b)   Within city limits between the hours of 11:30 p.m. December 31
until 12:30 a.m. January 1;
         (c)   In Block 25, Block 26, Block 27, Block 28, Block 29, Block 32,
Block 33, Block 34, Block 35, and/or Block 36 (Main Street/Eighth Street and
Walnut Street to Pine Street); and
         (d)   Upon any public park area within said city.
      (2)   If activities are conducted as a public display upon the grounds of
any city park, the organization in charge must first request permission in
advance to discharge any fireworks thereon and must obtain express prior
approval from the Common Council for the discharge of any said fireworks,
torpedoes, Roman candles, skyrockets, or any other kind or character of
fireworks.
(Ord. 482, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 521, passed 9-11-2017) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.51 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearms or air guns
within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.0405) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.52 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry concealed upon his or her
person in the city any description of firearm, being loaded or partly loaded,
or sling shot, brass knuckles, or any other weapon which when used is likely to
produce death or great bodily harm, except officers of the law in the line of
duty.
   (B)   No person, except a law enforcement officer in the discharge of his or
her duty, shall draw any description of firearm, knife or other deadly or
dangerous weapon upon another person.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or shoot off any
description of firearms, or use for any purpose any sling shot or other device
for throwing or forcing through the air missiles or projectiles of any
character whatever provided this section shall not apply to any law enforcement
officer in the discharge of his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 10.0111) Penalty, see §
131.99
VAGRANCY
§ 131.65 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VAGRANT. One who goes about from place to place, who has no lawful or
visible means of support and who lives upon charity, although physically able
to support himself or herself.
(Prior Code, § 10.0201)
§ 131.66 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct.
      (2)   No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if
the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if it appears
at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if it had been
believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm. Any
police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a loiterer or prowler
without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay in arresting the
suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall, or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division if
it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(Prior Code, § 10.0202) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.   
   (B)   Any person or persons who shall fail or refuse to leave any unlawful
assemblage as prescribed in §
131.02, or any assemblage calculated to or which might disturb the peace or
excite the public after having been ordered to leave by a police officer or any
person lawfully assisting such officer, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10.0103)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
131.50 and
131.51 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $10 for the first offense, and for any
subsequent offense, by a fine of not exceeding $100 or 30 days in jail, or both
such fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 8.0404)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   RAZING STRUCTURES; MOVING BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Electrical Wiring, Installation, and Inspection
   
150.01   Rules and regulations
   
150.02   Condemned wiring and installation
Fire Limits
   
150.15   Established fire limits
   
150.16   Permits
   
150.17   Limitations within fire limits
   
150.18   Roof covering
   
150.19   Chimneys
   
150.20   Removal or repair of unsafe buildings
   
150.21   Inspections
 
   
150.99   Penalty
ELECTRICAL WIRING, INSTALLATION, AND INSPECTION
§ 150.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All electrical installations, extensions, construction, remodeling,
circuitry, replacements, outlet replacements, and outlets used in connection
with electrical work and the operation of all electrical appliances shall be:
      (1)   In conformity with the rules and regulations of the National Board
of Fire Underwriters for the installation of electric wiring and apparatus as
the same are established and set forth in the national electric code now or
thereafter in force; and
      (2)   In conformity with the state electrical code, now or hereafter in
force; and shall be subject to inspection and approval as provided in said
state electrical code; and shall require the proper certificate of inspection
and approval issued by the state.
   (B)   (1)   The following provisions shall apply to all buildings within the
fire limits as fixed by §§
150.15 through
150.21 and to schools, places of public assembly, and gasoline/filling
stations:
      (2)   All new wiring shall conform to:
         (a)   The provisions of the national electrical code included under
one of the following sections:
            1.   Conduit work;
            2.   Surface metal raceways; and/or
            3.   Armored cable.
         (b)   The provisions of the state electrical code, now or hereafter in
force.
      (3)   In case of buildings already wired, and extensions, installations,
and electrical improvements shall conform to the above requirements of this
section.
      (4)   In case of remodeling, all wiring in the structure shall be made to
conform to the foregoing provisions of this section.
      (5)   Circuits for all appliances and convenience outlets shall be
calculated on the basis of not less than 250 watts per outlet. However, state
statutes and requirements of the state electrical code, if more stringent,
shall supersede this subchapter requirement.
      (6)   All wiring installations, replacements, or extensions, outlets,
materials, appliances, and other related items shall be subject to the
inspection provisions and requirements of the state electrical code, now or
hereafter in force, and shall require the proper certification of inspection
and approval issued by the state.
(Prior Code, § 8.0301)
§ 150.02 CONDEMNED WIRING AND INSTALLATION.
   Whenever the Common Council, or any agent designated by it, has reason to
believe that the wiring or electrical installation in or about any building is
unsafe or defective, it shall:
   (A)   Make an inspection thereof, and if the same is found to be unsafe,
defective, or improperly installed the Council shall condemn the same and
immediately notify the owner or person in charge of such wiring or installation
to correct any defect therein within ten days thereafter, and unless such
defects are corrected within the time specified it shall be the duty of the
Common Council, or its agent, as aforesaid, to have the current turned off to
said building or buildings, and not to again furnish current therefor until the
proper certificate of inspection and approval by the said Common Council, or
its agent, has been furnished; or
   (B)   Notify the proper state officials in charge of administering the state
electrical code, to inspect, re-inspect, or check said wiring or electrical
installation, extension, construction, remodeling, circuit replacements,
outlets, materials, and appliances in connection with electrical work for
compliance with such code and other provisions of this section now or hereafter
in force and/or existing, and to take appropriate action, whichever is deemed
desirable and/or expedient by said Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.0302)
FIRE LIMITS
§ 150.15 ESTABLISHED FIRE LIMITS.
   The fire limits shall be and are hereby declared to include all Commercially
zoned areas.
(Prior Code, § 8.0201)
§ 150.16 PERMITS.
   No wall, structure, building, or part thereof shall hereafter be built,
enlarged, or altered within the said fire limits until a plan of the proposed
work shall have been submitted to the Chief of the Fire Department, who shall,
if in accordance with the provisions herein contained, issue a permit for the
proposed construction structures hereafter erected without a permit, or not in
conformity with this subchapter, shall be removed.
(Prior Code, § 8.0203)
§ 150.17 LIMITATIONS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   No building or structure, the walls of which are composed of frame or
wood, in whole or in part, shall hereafter be erected, built, constructed, or
moved in or otherwise within the fire limits of the city, as described by this
subchapter, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Exceptions may include one-story frame buildings, such as may be
approved by the Common Council and upon recommendation of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 8.0204)
§ 150.18 ROOF COVERING.
   Every roof hereafter placed on a building shall be covered with a roofing of
brick, concrete, tile, slate metal, asbestos, or built-up roofing finished with
asphalt, slag, or gravel.
(Prior Code, § 8.0205)
§ 150.19 CHIMNEYS.
   All chimneys shall be built of masonry not less than four inches thick.
Every such chimney shall be lined with a flue lining and shall be built upon a
solid masonry foundation.
(Prior Code, § 8.0206)
§ 150.20 REMOVAL OR REPAIR OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   A building or structure, or part thereof, declared structurally unsafe or
hazardous by duly constituted authority may be restored to safe conditions;
provided, that the damage or cost of restoration and re-construction is in
excess of 50% of the value of the building or structure. If re-constructed or
restored, the building shall be made to conform to the requirements for
buildings and structures contained in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.0207)
§ 150.21 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to inspect, or
cause to be inspected, by Fire Department members, not less than two times a
year, all buildings and premises, except the interiors of private dwellings,
for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions
liable to cause fire. Whenever the Inspector shall find in any building, or
upon any premises or other place, combustible or explosive matter, or dangerous
accumulation of rubbish, or any highly inflammable materials, and so situated
as to endanger the property, he or she shall order the same to be removed or
remedied forthwith.
(Prior Code, § 8.0208)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.21 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8.0202)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Purpose and objectives
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Provisions related to flood damage prevention
   
151.04   Administration
   
151.05   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
§ 151.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has, in SDCL §§
9-12-1, 9-32-1, 9-36-1, and 9-36-17, delegated the responsibility to local
government units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Common Council
does ordain as follows.
   (B)   Finding of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately flood proofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from
flood damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions to specific areas by provisions designed:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, as well as streets and
bridges located in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      (7)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      (8)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
      (1)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alterations of natural floodplains, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel
flood waters;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Prior Code, § 4.0801) (Ord. 431, passed - -1997)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of waters, and/or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without
permanent foundations when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes STRUCTURES which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either any project for improvement of a STRUCTURE to correct
existing violations of state of local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions,
or any alteration of a historic STRUCTURE, provided that the alteration will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic STRUCTURE.
(Prior Code, § 4.0802) (Ord. 431, passed - -1997)
§ 151.03 PROVISIONS RELATED TO FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
areas within the jurisdictions of the city.
   (B)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (C)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (D)   Interpretation. In the interpretation of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statute.
   (E)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the city, any officer, or employee thereof, or the
Federal Emergency Management Agency for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter, or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 4.0803) (Ord. 431, passed - -1997)
§ 151.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Establishment of development permit.
      (1)   A development permit shall be obtained before construction of
development begins within the community.
      (2)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms
furnished by the city’s Finance Officer and may include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; and
         (b)   Existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials,
drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Permit review.
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied, and to determine whether
proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that permits have been
obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required.
      (3)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the floodprone
area. For the purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means damage to
adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to physical
changes of the channel and the adjacent over bank areas.
         (a)   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration.
         (b)   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then
technical justification (for example, a registered professional engineer’s
certification) for the proposed development shall be required.
         (c)   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions
of this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 4.0804) (Ord. 431, passed - -1997)
§ 151.05 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   If a proposed building site is located in a floodprone area, all new
construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
MANUFACTURED HOMES) shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Anchoring. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure,
and capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 4.0805) (Ord. 431, passed - -1997)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Resolution
   
152.02   Grade lines
   
152.03   Crown of streets
   
152.04   Sidewalks
Construction
   
152.15   Notice to owners regarding construction
   
152.16   Permit to build
   
152.17   Supervision
   
152.18   Dimensions
Cost of Improvements
   
152.30   Installments
   
152.31   Rate of interest
   
152.32   Proceedings
Removal of Ice and Snow
   
152.45   Definition
   
152.46   Duty to remove snow
   
152.47   When to clear sidewalks using substances
   
152.48   Snow must be broken up
   
152.49   Police role in snow removal
   
152.50   City role in snow removal
   
152.51   Snow removal emergency
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Whenever the Common Council shall deem it necessary to construct,
repair, or rebuild any sidewalk, curb, or gutter in the city it shall pass on
the first reading a resolution declaring the necessity of complying therefor
and setting forth a description of the proposed improvement and a description
of the lots or parcels of ground abutting said improvement.
   (B)   Said resolution must be posted in a public place and published in the
official city newspaper for two consecutive issues, stating the resolution in
full and setting forth the time and place of the next regular meeting of the
Common Council.
   (C)   If prior to the next regular meeting of the Common Council there is
filed with the Municipal Finance Officer by the owners of more than 75% in
frontage of the property abutting said improvement then no proceedings shall be
had under such resolution, provided, however, if heretofor constructed, or the
sidewalk to be constructed, connects with sidewalks already built and
constructed, then the Common Council, by majority vote, may order such sidewalk
to be repaired or rebuilt, or order the construction of the sidewalk connecting
with the sidewalks already built and constructed, and may disregard any such
protest filed against said improvement.
(Prior Code, § 2.0401)
§ 152.02 GRADE LINES.
   The grade line from one corner of a block to the next corner of the same
block shall be of uniform slope, ascending and descending, and the grade of all
lots may be determined by a straight line running along the boundary line of
the block from one corner to the other at the grade above indicated at such
corner, except that where a different grade is established at an intermediate
point on the boundary line of certain blocks as appears above, the grade of any
intermediate point along the boundary line drawn from the corner of such block
at the grade above indicated to the nearest grade point established as
aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 2.0203)
§ 152.03 CROWN OF STREETS.
   The street grade for the crown of all streets at the center line shall be
the same elevation as a straight line drawn at right angles across the street
from the established grade at the lot line to the established grade at the lot
line of the opposite block, except that on Eighth Street between Cedar and Elm
Streets, the grade for the crown of the street at the center line shall be the
same elevation as a straight line drawn at right angles across the street from
the grade as established at the outer edge of the sidewalk, ten feet from the
lot line to the grade at a corresponding point on the opposite side of the
street.
(Prior Code, § 2.0204)
§ 152.04 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks hereafter built or constructed shall conform to the grade hereby
established, and all sidewalks on Eighth Street between Cedar and Elm Streets
shall be ten feet wide and the outer edge thereof shall be ten feet from the
lot line. All other sidewalks shall be four feet wide, the outer edge thereof
shall be six feet from the lot line, except on the east side of Block 32
wherein the outer edge shall be 11 feet from the lot line.
(Prior Code, § 2.0205)
CONSTRUCTION
§ 152.15 NOTICE TO OWNERS REGARDING CONSTRUCTION.
   Within seven days after the adoption of said resolution, the Municipal
Finance Officer shall notify the owners of property abutting said improvement
mentioned heretofor giving a description of the work to be done. If said owners
of property fail to construct said improvement within 30 days after the mailing
of the notification, the Common Council shall order the construction of said
improvement and the costs of the improvement shall be paid as described in §§
152.30 through
152.32 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.0402)
§ 152.16 PERMIT TO BUILD.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to build or construct any
sidewalk, curb, or gutter shall, before commencing construction thereof,
procure from the Street Superintendent a permit therefor, and in no case shall
such a permit be granted unless the particular sidewalk, curb, or gutter is to
be constructed in strict conformity with the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.0301)
§ 152.17 SUPERVISION.
   The construction of any sidewalk, curb, or gutter shall in all cases be
under the direction and personal supervision of the Street Superintendent, and
it shall be his or her duty to furnish to, or for, any person, firm, or
corporation having permit for construction of such sidewalk, curb, or gutter,
all necessary and proper plans and specifications, and to set in place all
necessary and proper line and grade stakes for the construction and location of
said sidewalk, curb, or gutter. All labor performed and material used in the
construction of said sidewalk, curb, or gutter must be approved by the Street
Superintendent and sidewalks, curbs, or gutters constructed without said
approval shall be immediately removed, and the expense of removal charged to
the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 2.0302)
§ 152.18 DIMENSIONS.
   All sidewalks shall be four feet in width and so located that the outer edge
shall be six feet from the lot line, except on the east side of Block 32, the
outer edge shall be eleven feet from the lot line and, except on Eight Street,
where the sidewalk shall be ten feet wide and the outer edge shall be ten feet
from the lot line of the abutting property between Cedar and Elm Streets. All
curbs shall be six inches in width and six inches deep, and shall be laid upon
the established curb line of the city, and all gutters shall be from two to
three feet wide, four inches thick, and from six to 12 inches deep, to suit
condition. The curb line on all streets, unless specifically modified by the
Common Council for specific purposes or circumstances, shall be 18 feet from
the lot line, except on Eight Street between Cedar and Elm Streets where it
shall be ten feet from the lot line. Where sidewalks being constructed join old
sidewalks already constructed, the width of the new walk shall correspond with
the width of the old walk which it joins, but in no event shall the new walk be
less than four feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 2.0303)
COST OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.30 INSTALLMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the Common Council shall cause paving, grading, graveling,
sewer or water mains, curbs or curb and gutters, or incidental improvements on
any street, avenue, or alley in the city, the cost of which is to be paid by
special assessment against abutting property or property within a certain
district or portion of the city, it may divide the amount of the assessment on
a lot, part, or parcel of land if the assessment exceeds $50 into not more than
ten equal annual installments. If it is less than $50, it shall not be
divisible into partial payments or installments.
   (B)   The first installment or partial payment shall be due and payable from
and after the filing of the special assessment roll with the Municipal Finance
Officer. The remaining portion of said assessment, after deducting the amount
of the first installment, may be divided into equal annual installments and
paid on, or before, the anniversary date of the filing of the assessment roll
with the Municipal Finance Officer, all as provided for by law pertaining to
the payment and collection of special assessments for local improvements.
(Prior Code, § 2.0501)
§ 152.31 RATE OF INTEREST.
   Each of said last named installments shall bear interest at the rate of 7%
per annum from and after the expiration of 60 days next succeeding the filing
of the assessment roll in the office of the Municipal Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 2.0502)
§ 152.32 PROCEEDINGS.
   Whenever the Common Council shall desire to make any of the improvements
named above upon any street, avenue, or alley, and divide the cost of the
special assessment therefor into installments, the resolution therefor
declaring such construction necessary shall state and fix the percent of the
cost or special assessment which may be paid annually, if the property owner
wishes to pay the special assessment in part payments or installments.
(Prior Code, § 2.0503)
REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW
§ 152.45 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. One or more persons of either sex, natural persons, corporations,
partnerships, associations, joint stock companies, societies, or all other
entities of any kind capable of being sued.
(Prior Code, § 7.0908)
§ 152.46 DUTY TO REMOVE SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the lessee or occupant of the first or ground floor
or person having charge, or if there be no lessee, occupant, or person having
charge, then the owner of each and every parcel of real estate in the city,
abutting or bordering upon any street, avenue, highway, or other public place,
to remove, or cause to be removed, all snow and ice from such sidewalk within
12 hours of daylight after such snow or ice shall have fallen or accumulated
thereon unless, because of excessive accumulation, the time for removal be
extended by the proper authority.
(Prior Code, § 7.0901)
§ 152.47 WHEN TO CLEAR SIDEWALKS USING SUBSTANCES.
   In case the snow and ice on the sidewalk shall be frozen so hard that it
cannot be removed without injury to the pavement, the lessee, occupant, person
having charge, or owner of every parcel of real estate shall, within the time
specified in the preceding section, cause the sidewalk abutting or adjacent to
such premises to be strewn, and to be kept strewn with, sand, salt, sawdust, or
some other suitable material and shall, as soon thereafter as the weather shall
permit, thoroughly clean such sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 7.0902)
§ 152.48 SNOW MUST BE BROKEN UP.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or put, or cause to be thrown
or put, any snow or ice into any street, avenue, or other public place in the
city unless the same shall be broken up and spread evenly over the surface of
such street, avenue, or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 7.0903) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.49 POLICE ROLE IN SNOW REMOVAL.
   It shall be the duty of each police officer in case he or she finds that the
snow and ice have not been removed from the sidewalks, or in case of neglect of
the person charged with such duty of this subchapter, to spread sand or other
substance upon ice or snow when the same cannot be removed within the time
required by this subchapter, immediately to notify the Chief of Police thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7.0904)
§ 152.50 CITY ROLE IN SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   Whenever any owner, lessee, occupant, or person having charge of any
parcel of real estate shall fail or neglect to remove snow and ice from any
such sidewalk, as provided in this subchapter, the Chief of Police, without
notice, shall have the ice and snow removed therefrom.
   (B)   A bill for the expense incurred thereby shall be presented by the
Chief of Police to the owner personally by leaving the same at his or her
residence, or place of business, or if he or she is a non-resident, by mailing
the same to his or her last known address, or, if the name of such owner or his
or her place of residence cannot be determined or ascertained after due
diligence, by posting the same in a conspicuous place on his or her premises.
   (C)   If he or she shall fail to pay the same within 30 days thereafter, the
Chief of Police shall file, each year immediately preceding the time for making
the annual assessment roll, his or her certificate of the actual cost of such
work, together with a statement to the property in front of, or on which, the
cleaning was done with the assessor of the city who shall, in the preparation
of the assessment roll of general city taxes, assess such amount upon such
property, and the same shall be levied, corrected, enforced, and collected in
the same manner by the same proceedings, at the same time, under the same
penalties, and having the same lien upon the property assessed as the general
city tax and as a part thereof.
   (D)   The imposition and collection of any fine or penalty prescribed by
this subchapter shall not be a bar to the right of the city to collect the cost
of removing and cleaning of snow and ice from the sidewalks as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 7.0905)
§ 152.51 SNOW REMOVAL EMERGENCY.
   (A)   There shall be a snow removal emergency wherever there is a snow
accumulation on the public streets of the city of two inches or more. In the
event of snow accumulation of two inches or more, no person shall park or allow
to remained parked any motor vehicle, trailer, camper, boat, or license/
unlicensed vehicles on any public street in the city until such time as said
street is cleared of snow accumulation, curb-to-curb, and the snow removal
equipment is no longer operating in that area.
   (B)   The Street Superintendent, or his or her designee(s), shall be
authorized to have said motor vehicles, trailer, camper, boat, or licensed/
unlicensed vehicles moved or towed off said city streets if said vehicles are
not moved in the said timely manner.
   (C)   The official notice of a snowfall emergency shall be promptly related
to WNAX AM radio in Yankton, South Dakota, and Keloland TV, Sioux Falls, South
Dakota, by the Street Superintendent, or his or her designee, upon declaring a
snowfall emergency. Notice to the public is deemed sufficient immediately upon
said WNAX AM radio and Keloland TV announcements being made.
(Prior Code, § 7.0906) (Ord. 512, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner, lessee, occupant, or person in charge who shall fail,
neglect, or refuse to remove snow and ice, or strew the same with sand or other
substances as directed in §§
152.45 through
152.51, or who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
152.45 through
152.50, or who shall resist or obstruct the Chief of Police, or his or her
employees, in the removal of snow and ice shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine of not more than $25, and each day of which such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7.0907)
      (2)   The person or entity who shall violate any section of §
152.51 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, § 7.0906)
(Ord. 512, passed 3-6-2017)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Establishment of zoning map
   
153.002   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.003   Application of district regulations
   
153.004   Non-conforming uses
   
153.005   Adopted district regulations
   
153.006   Definitions
A: Agricultural
   
153.020   Intent
   
153.021   Principal permitted uses
   
153.022   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
153.023   Special exception uses and structures
   
153.024   Minimum lot area and width
   
153.025   Minimum front, side, and rear yards
   
153.026   Maximum height
   
153.027   Sign requirement
R1: Single-Family Residential
   
153.040   Intent
   
153.041   Principal permitted uses
   
153.042   Required off-street parking
   
153.043   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
153.044   Special exception uses and structures
   
153.045   Minimum lot area and width
   
153.046   Minimum required front, side, and rear yards
   
153.047   Maximum height
   
153.048   Permitted signs
R2: Two-Family Residential
   
153.060   Intent
   
153.061   Principal permitted uses
   
153.062   Required off-street parking
   
153.063   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
153.064   Special exception uses and structures
   
153.065   Minimum lot area and width
   
153.066   Minimum required front, side, and rear yards
   
153.067   Maximum height
   
153.068   Permitted signs
R3: Multiple-Family Residential
   
153.080   Intent
   
153.081   Principal permitted uses
   
153.082   Required off-street parking
   
153.083   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
153.084   Minimum lot area and width
   
153.085   Minimum required front, side, and rear yards
   
153.086   Maximum height
   
153.087   Permitted signs
C: Commercial
   
153.100   Intent
   
153.101   Principal permitted uses
   
153.102   Required off-street parking
   
153.103   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
153.104   Special exception uses and structures
   
153.105   Minimum lot area, width, and depth
   
153.106   Minimum required front, side, and rear yards
   
153.107   Maximum height
   
153.108   Permitted signs
HC: Highway Commercial
   
153.120   Intent
   
153.121   Principal permitted uses
   
153.122   Minimum off-street parking requirements
   
153.123   Permitted accessory uses and structures
I: Industrial
   
153.135   Intent
   
153.136   Principal permitted uses
   
153.137   Minimum off-street parking requirements
   
153.138   Prohibited uses
   
153.139   Permitted accessory uses
   
153.140   Minimum required front, side, and rear yards
   
153.141   Maximum height
E: Environmental Conservation District
   
153.155   Intent
   
153.156   Principal permitted uses
   
153.157   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
153.158   Permitted conditional uses
   
153.159   Minimum required front, side, and rear yards
   
153.160   Maximum height
M: Manufactured Home Park
   
153.175   Intent
   
153.176   Principal permitted uses
   
153.177   Required off-street parking
   
153.178   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
153.179   Special exception uses and structures
   
153.180   Minimum area and width
   
153.181   Additional regulations
V: Vacation; Recreation Area
   
153.195   Intent
   
153.196   Principal permitted uses
   
153.197   Required off-street parking
   
153.198   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
153.199   Special exception uses and structures
   
153.200   Minimum area and width
   
153.201   Permitted signs
   
153.202   Additional regulations
Supplementary District Regulations
   
153.215   Visibility at intersections in residential districts
   
153.216   Fences, walls, and hedges
   
153.217   Accessory buildings
   
153.218   Erection of more than one structure on a lot
   
153.219   Exceptions to height regulation
   
153.220   Structures to have access
   
153.221   Parking, storage, or use of recreational equipment
   
153.222   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
153.223   Parking lots
   
153.224   Manufactured, modular home standards
   
153.225   Cannabis dispensaries
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.240   Administration and enforcement
   
153.241   Building permits required
   
153.242   Application for building permit
   
153.243   Certificates of zoning compliance
   
153.244   Expiration of building permit
   
153.245   Construction and use to be provided as demonstrated
Cross-reference:
Regulations and powers of the Board of Adjustment and Common Council, see §§
32.01 through
32.08,
32.99
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on the
official zoning map which, together will all explanatory matter thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this chapter.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor attested by the Municipal Finance Officer and bearing the seal of the
city under the following words: “This is to certify that this is the Official
Zoning Map referred to in the 2023 revised ordinances of the City of
Springfield, South Dakota” together with the date of the adoption of this
chapter.
   (C)   The official zoning map, and all changes, amendments, or additions
thereto, shall be located in the office of the Municipal Finance Officer (or
other place easily accessible to the public).
(Prior Code, § 3.0101)
§ 153.002 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of a district, as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot line;
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following such city limits;
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks;
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to
follow such shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line shall be
construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or
other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by
the scale of the map;
   (G)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (D) above, the Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the district boundaries; and
   (H)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, the Board of Adjustment may
permit, as a special exception, the extension of the regulations for either
portion of the lot not to exceed 50 feet beyond the district line into the
remaining portion of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 3.0102) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.003 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be
minimum regulations, and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or portion thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located; provided, however, that outside of the corporation limits of the city,
the use of land for farming or agricultural purposes, except commercial feed
lots, is specifically excepted from the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      (1)   To exceed the height or bulk;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; and/or
      (4)   To have a narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards,
or other open spaces than herein required, or in any other manner contrary to
the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking of
loading space required about, or in connection with, any building for the
purpose of complying with this chapter, shall be included as part of a yard,
open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any
other building.
   (E)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this section shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (F)   All territory, which may hereafter be annexed to the city, shall be
considered to be in the Agricultural District until otherwise classified.
   (G)   All uses and structures not specifically listed as a permitted use,
special permitted use, or as a conditional use in a particular zoning district
shall be prohibited in said district.
(Prior Code, § 3.0103)
(Ord. 607, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 153.004 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   (1)   A non-conforming use of a building and land at the time of the
adoption of the zoning ordinance incorporated in this chapter may be continued,
although such use does not conform with the provisions hereof.
      (2)   Such use may be extended throughout the building, provided no
structural alterations, except those required by law or ordinance, are made
therein.
   (B)   The following additional regulations shall apply.
      (1)   Whenever a district shall be hereafter changed, any then existing
non-conforming use in such changed district may be continued, provided all
other regulations governing the use are complied with.
      (2)   A non-conforming use that is changed to a conforming use shall not
thereafter be changed back to any non-conforming use.
      (3)   A non-conforming use, if changed to a more restricted non-
conforming use, shall not thereafter be changed unless to a still more
restricted use.
      (4)   Where a building located in a district restricted against its use
has been destroyed by fire or other calamity to the extent of not more than
one-half of its assessed value, a permit may be granted for its reconstruction
within a period of not to exceed six months from the date of such fire or other
calamity.
      (5)   Where a non-conforming use has existed, and such non-conforming use
is not exercised or continued for a period of one year, such non-conforming use
shall cease to exist and the premises and building, or buildings, which have
been subjected to such non-conforming use shall thereafter conform to the use
and regulation of the district in which such premises or building is located.
(Prior Code, § 3.0104)
§ 153.005 ADOPTED DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   District regulations shall be as set forth in the schedule of district
regulations, hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter, and in §§
153.215 through
153.225.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, the following zoning districts and
zoning map designations are established:
      (1)   A: Agricultural;
      (2)   R1: Single-Family Residential;
      (3)   R2: Two-Family Residential;
      (4)   R3: Multiple-Family Residential;
      (5)   C: Commercial;
      (6)   HC: Highway Commercial;
      (7)   I: Industrial;
      (8)   E: Environmental Conservation;
      (9)   M: Manufactured Home Park; and
      (10)   V: Vacation; Recreation Area.
(Prior Code, § 3.0105)
§ 153.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE or STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental, and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   ALLEY. A thoroughfare generally 16 feet in width, and generally less than 22
feet in width, unless otherwise designated by ordinance. It is an area or lane
platted as a thoroughfare through the center of a block.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property.
   CAMPGROUND. An area used for a range of overnight camping experiences, from
tenting to serviced trailer sites, including accessory facilities which support
the use, such as administration offices, laundry facilities, but not including
the use of mobile homes or trailers on a permanent year-round basis.
   CAMP SITE. A camping establishment that is occupied on a temporary basis
only, by a trailer, motorized mobile home, truck camper, camper or tent, but
not a mobile home.
   CANNABIS OR MARIJUANA. All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis, whether
growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying or
curing, and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of
marijuana absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber
produced from the mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the
seeds of such plant. The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L.
(hemp) and any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof, and all
derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of
isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta-p tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of not more than three-tenths of 1% on a dry weight basis.
      (1)   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G- 1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity
that acquires, possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, sells,
supplies, or dispenses cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related
supplies and educational materials.
      (2)   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or
dispenses cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and
educational materials.
      (3)   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis
testing facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis
dispensary.
      (4)   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the
definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally
licensed entity that acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers,
transports, supplies, or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
      (5)   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts,
and products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are
intended for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis
products, beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
      (6)   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL §
34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally
authorized to analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   DWELLING, FOUR-FAMILY. A building having accommodations for, and occupied
exclusively by, four families.
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME. A moveable or portable dwelling which is eight
feet or more in width and 32 feet or more in length, constructed on a chassis,
and which is designed to be towed, designed for year-round occupancy, primarily
to be used without a permanent foundation, but which may sit on a permanent
foundation, and designed to be connected to utilities. It may consist of one or
more units, separately transportable, but designed to be joined together into
one integral unit. MANUFACTURED HOMES are built according to the Federal
Manufactured Housing, Construction, and Safety Standards Act of 1974, revised
1999 and being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., and/or current standards.
MANUFACTURED HOMES are not mobile homes.
      (1)   The age of the MANUFACTURED HOME may not exceed ten years from the
date of manufacture.
      (2)   The MANUFACTURED HOME must meet or exceed the standards in effect
on the date of its creation, as found in 24 C.F.R. Part 3280.
      (3)   The following shall not be included in this definition:
         (a)   Travel trailer, pickup coaches, motor homes, camping trailers,
or other recreational vehicles; and
         (b)   Modular housing which is designed to be set on a permanent
foundation and which uses standard sheathing, roofing, siding, and electrical,
plumbing, and heating systems.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A transportable, factory-built home, designed to be
used as a year-round residential dwelling and built prior to the enactment of
the Federal Manufactured Housing, Construction, and Safety Standards Act of
1974, revised 1999, and/or current standards.
      (1)   The age of the mobile home may not exceed ten years from the date
of manufacture.
      (2)   The mobile home must meet or exceed the standards in effect on the
date of its creation as found in 24 C.F.R. § 3280.
   DWELLING, MODULAR HOME. A structure or building module that is manufactured
at a location other than the site upon which it is installed and used as a
residence, transportable in one or more sections on a temporary chassis or
other conveyance device, and to be used as a permanent dwelling when installed
and placed upon a permanent foundation system. This definition includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained within
the structure.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY. A residential building designed for, or occupied
by, five or more families, with the number of families in residence not
exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit, other than a
mobile home, designed for, and occupied by, one family only.
   DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY. A building having accommodations for, and occupied
exclusively by, three families.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building having accommodations for, and occupied
exclusively by, two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwellings units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood or marriage, no such family shall
contain over five persons, but further provided that domestic servants employed
on the premises may be housed on the premises without being counted as a family
or families.
   FARMSTEAD. An area of 20 acres or more on which is located at least one
dwelling unit and on which farm products of a value of $1,000 or more are
normally produced each year.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation conducted in a dwelling unit, provided that:
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in such occupation;
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall
be used in the conduct of the HOME OCCUPATION;
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding one square-foot in area, non-illuminated,
and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
      (4)   No HOME OCCUPATION shall be conducted in an accessory building;
      (5)   There shall be no sales in connection with such HOME OCCUPATION;
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by such HOME OCCUPATION in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such HOME OCCUPATION shall be net
off the street and other than in a required front yard; and
      (7)   No equipment or process shall be used in such HOME OCCUPATION which
created noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the LOT, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations
in line voltage off the premises.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one main building together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking spaces required by this chapter, and
fronting upon a street.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purposes of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated under yards in
this section.
   LOT MEASUREMENTS.
      (1)   Depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between the
midpoints of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot
lines in front, and the rearmost points of the side lot lines in the rear.
      (2)   Width of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between
straight lines connecting front and rear lot lines at each side of the lot,
measured across the rear of the required front yard, provided, however, that
width between side lot lines at their foremost points (where they intersect
with the street line) shall not be less than 80% of the required lot width
except in the case of lots on the turning circle of a cul-de-sac, where the 80%
requirement shall not apply.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Clerk, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   PERSON. A firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or
corporation, as well as an individual.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. An operation in which garbage or refuse is deposited by a
plan on a specified portion of land, is compacted by force applied by
mechanical equipment, and then is covered by compacted suitable covering
material to a depth of at least six inches over individual cells of garbage or
refuse, and to a depth of at least 24 inches over the finished landfill. The
site is closed at the end of each day.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SIGN. Any outdoor advertising having a permanent location on the ground, or
attached to or painted on a building including bulletin boards, billboards, and
poster boards.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning division or district but which, if controlled
as to number, area, location, or relation to the neighborhood, would promote
the public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience,
appearance, prosperity, or general welfare.
   STREET. A thoroughfare or lane platted for vehicular traffic, generally
wider than an alley, and generally including the sidewalk abutting non-street
property.
   STREET LINE. The right-of-way line of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences,
billboards, and poster panels.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes, having
a body width not exceeding eight feet.
   USED or OCCUPIED. Includes the words intended, designated, or arranged to be
used or occupied.
   VARIANCE. Relief from, or variation of, the provisions of these regulations,
other than use regulations, as applied to a specific piece of property, as
distinct from rezoning, as further set out hereinafter in the powers and duties
of the Board of Adjustment.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In
measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the
depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard the minimum horizontal
distance between the lot line and the main.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard across the full width of the lot extending from the
front line of the main building to the front line of the lot.
   YARD, REAR. A yard across the full width of the lot between the back line of
the main building and the back line of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the adjacent side line of
the lot, and extending entirely from a front yard to the rear yard.
(Prior Code, § 3.1701)
(Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000; Ord. 602, passed 10-7-2019; Ord. 607, passed 11-
15-2021)
A: AGRICULTURAL
§ 153.020 INTENT.
   (A)   This district is intended to provide for general agricultural use.
   (B)   All land annexed into the city shall be classified as an Agricultural
District until the need to change the zoning is demonstrated to the Zoning
Commission, and an application for change of zone is filed in accordance with §
32.06 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3.0201)
§ 153.021 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   All agricultural uses except sales and auction yards or barns;
   (B)   Plant nurseries and truck gardens;
   (C)   Riding stables;
   (D)   Single-family dwellings, and modular and manufactured homes, as part
of a farming operation; and
   (E)   Lumbering, mining, and extraction of minerals or raw materials.
(Prior Code, § 3.0202) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.022 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A) Uses and structures customarily incident to the principal use of the
district;
   (B) Temporary roadside stands for retail sale of produce; and
   (C) Customary home or farmstead occupations.
(Prior Code, § 3.0203)
§ 153.023 SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary fairgrounds and amusement parks not closer than 500 feet to
any residential district, with no structure or apparatus within 30 feet of any
property line;
   (B)   Cemeteries;
   (C)   Golf courses or country clubs;
   (D)   Sanitary landfills for the proper disposal of refuse, provided such
use shall not be located nearer than 1,000 feet to any residential district or
dwelling;
   (E)   Sewage treatment facilities or lagoons;
   (F)   Utility substations necessary to the functioning of the utility,
provided they are located in conformance to the yard requirements;
   (G)   Airports;
   (H)   Amphitheaters, stadiums, drive-in movies, arenas, and field houses;
   (I)   Campgrounds;
   (J)   Churches or other places of worship;
   (K)   Federal government grain storage; and
   (L)   One manufactured home per farmstead (20 acres), pursuant to §
153.224.
(Prior Code, § 3.0204) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.024 MINIMUM LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   The minimum lot area shall be one and one-half acres, and the minimum lot
width at the front building line shall be 200 feet.
(Prior Code, § 3.0205)
§ 153.025 MINIMUM FRONT, SIDE, AND REAR YARDS.
   The minimum yard dimensions shall be a front yard of not less than a 70 foot
depth, a side yard of not less than 40 foot depth, and a rear yard of not less
than a 50 foot depth.
(Prior Code, § 3.0206)
§ 153.026 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The height of any dwelling unit shall not exceed 35 feet, or two and one-
half stories.
(Prior Code, § 3.0207)
§ 153.027 SIGN REQUIREMENT.
   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition, and in
the event they shall become illegible or their use shall cease, they shall be
removed promptly and the area occupied restored to a condition free of refuse
and debris.
(Prior Code, § 3.0208)
R1: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
§ 153.040 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for a moderate density of single-family
residential dwellings within the existing ranges of municipal services, or
where municipal services can be obtained or developed economically.
(Prior Code, § 3.0301)
§ 153.041 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Dwelling, single-family;
   (B)   Modular homes pursuant to §
153.224(A) through (H);
   (C)   Churches and places of worship;
   (D)   Public and private schools;
   (E)   Public parks, playgrounds, or playfields;
   (F)   Community buildings owned and/or occupied by public agencies; and
   (G)   Nursing, convalescent, and retirement homes.
(Prior Code, § 3.0302) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.042 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Dwelling, single-family: one space per vehicle;
   (B)   Churches and places of worship: one space for each six seats in
principal assembly area;
   (C)   Public and private schools: one space for each six seats in auditorium
or stadium;
   (D)   Public parks, playgrounds, or playfields: one space for each six seats
in the grandstand or stadium; eight spaces per acre if a family picnic area; 20
spaces per acre if a group picnic area; none required for playgrounds or
playfields;
   (E)   Community buildings owned and/or occupied by public agencies: one
space for each 300 square feet floor area; and
   (F)   Nursing, convalescent, and retirement homes: one space for each four
beds.
(Prior Code, § 3.0303)
§ 153.043 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Private garage containing not more than three vehicle spaces;
   (B)   Customary home occupations; and
   (C)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, provided
such buildings are removed promptly upon termination of construction work.
(Prior Code, § 3.0304)
§ 153.044 SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Subject to §§
32.01 through
32.08 and to other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
   (A)   Professional offices on lots of 5,000 square feet or more that provide
one parking space for each 300 square feet of floor area, and are in
conformance with the yard requirements for dwellings;
   (B)   Funeral homes and mortuaries on lots of 12,000 square feet or more
that provide one parking space for each 50 square feet of parlor area, and
conform to the yard requirements for dwellings;
   (C)   Nursery schools or day-care centers operated as an accessory use to
private, single-family residences on lots of 12,000 square feet or more;
   (D)   Electrical and gas distribution substations, and other public utility
installations, provided that any building, substation, or other installation
shall conform to the front and rear yard requirements for dwellings and have
side yards of not less than 25 feet, but shall not include equipment storage,
maintenance yards of buildings, or general administrative or sales offices;
   (E)   Dwellings, two-family; and
   (F)   Manufactured homes, pursuant to §
153.224.
(Prior Code, § 3.0305)
§ 153.045 MINIMUM LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   For single-family dwellings, the minimum required lot area and width are as
follows:
   (A)   Area: 6,160 square feet; and
   (B)   Width: 44 feet.
(Prior Code, § 3.0306)
§ 153.046 MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE, AND REAR YARDS.
   (A)   For single-family dwellings, the minimum required front, side, and
rear yard measurements are as follows:
      (1)   Front: 20 feet;
      (2)   Side-interior lot: six feet;
      (3)   Side-corner lot: 20 feet; and
      (4)   Rear: 20 feet.
   (B)   All accessory structures shall conform to the same yard requirements
as dwellings, except that a private garage may be built within two feet to a
rear lot line and no closer than 20 feet to any street line.
(Prior Code, § 3.0307)
§ 153.047 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   All structures must be 35 feet, or two and one-half stories.
(Prior Code, § 3.0308)
§ 153.048 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (A)   Name plate or home occupation sign not larger than one square foot in
area.
   (B)   Temporary sign advertising the sale or lease of the premises, not
larger than eight square feet in area.
   (C)   Church and public building bulletin boards not larger than 12 square
feet in area.
   (D)   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition. In
the event that they shall become illegible or their use shall cease, they shall
be removed within 15 days or be subject to a penalty as set forth in §
32.99.
(Prior Code, § 3.0309)
R2: TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
§ 153.060 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for a moderate to high density of
single-family and two family residential dwellings within the existing ranges
of municipal services, or where municipal services can be obtained or developed
economically.
(Prior Code, § 3.0401)
§ 153.061 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Any use permitted in R1: Single-Family Residential;
   (B)   Dwellings, two-family;
   (C)   Dwellings, three-family;
   (D)   Dwellings, four-family;
   (E)   Manufactured homes, pursuant to §
153.224;
   (F)   Modular homes pursuant to §
153.224(A) through (H).
(Prior Code, § 3.0402) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.062 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Same as required for R1: Single-Family Residential, §
153.042.
(Prior Code, § 3.0403)
§ 153.063 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Same permitted uses and structures as R1: Single-Family Residential, §
153.043.
(Prior Code, § 3.0404)
§ 153.064 SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Same special exception uses and structures as provided for in R1: Single-
Family Residential, §
153.044.
(Prior Code, § 3.0405)
§ 153.065 MINIMUM LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   For two-family dwellings, the minimum required lot area and width are as
follows:
   (A)   Area: 6,336 square feet; and
   (B)   Width: 44 feet.
(Prior Code, § 3.0406)
§ 153.066 MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE, AND REAR YARDS.
   (A)   For two-family dwellings, the minimum required front, side, and rear
yard measurements are as follows:
      (1)   Front: 20 feet;
      (2)   Side-interior: six feet;
      (3)   Side-corner: 20 feet; and
      (4)   Rear: 20 feet.
   (B)   All accessory structures shall conform to the same yard requirements
as dwellings, except no private garage may be built closer than two feet to a
rear lot line and no closer than 20 feet to any street line.
(Prior Code, § 3.0407)
§ 153.067 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   All structures must 35 feet, or two and one-half stories.
(Prior Code, § 3.0408)
§ 153.068 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   Same permitted sign as provided in R1: Single-Family Residential, §
153.048.
(Prior Code, § 3.0409)
R3: MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
§ 153.080 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for a high density of residential
dwellings, including family units, within the existing ranges of municipal
services.
(Prior Code, § 3.0501)
§ 153.081 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R1 and R2 districts;
   (B)   Dwellings, multiple-family;
   (C)   Dwellings, three-family;
   (D)   Dwellings, four-family;
   (E)   Manufactured homes, pursuant to §
153.224; and
   (F)   Modular homes, pursuant to §
153.224(A) through (H).
(Prior Code, § 3.0502) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.082 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Multiple dwellings: one space per dwelling unit in the building.
(Prior Code, § 3.0503)
§ 153.083 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Private garages; and
   (B)   Temporary buildings for use incidental to construction work, provided
such buildings are removed promptly upon termination of construction work.
(Prior Code, § 3.0504)
§ 153.084 MINIMUM LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   (A)   Single-family dwelling.
      (1)   Area: 4,500 square feet; and
      (2)   Width: 44 feet.
   (B)   Two-family dwellings.
      (1)   Area: 2,500 square feet per family; and
      (2)   Width: 44 feet.
   (C)   Multiple-family dwellings.
      (1)   Area: 1,500 square feet per family; and
      (2)   Width: 44 feet.
(Prior Code, § 3.0505)
§ 153.085 MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE, AND REAR YARDS.
   (A)   For multiple-family dwellings and other permitted dwellings in this
district, the minimum required front, side, and rear yard measurements are as
follows:
      (1)   Front: 20 feet;
      (2)   Side-interior: six feet;
      (3)   Side-corner: 20 feet; and
      (4)   Rear: 20 feet.
   (B)   All accessory structures shall conform to the same yard requirements
as dwellings, except that no private garage may be built closer than two feet
to a rear lot line and no closer than 20 feet to any street line.
(Prior Code, § 3.0506)
§ 153.086 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   All structures must be 45 feet, or four stories.
(Prior Code, § 3.0507)
§ 153.087 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (A)   Name plate or home occupation sign not larger than one square foot in
area;
   (B)   Temporary sign advertising the sale or lease of the premises, not
larger than eight square feet in area; and
   (C)   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition. In
the event that they shall become illegible or their use shall cease, they shall
be removed within 15 days or be subject to a penalty as set forth in §
32.99.
(Prior Code, § 3.0508)
C: COMMERCIAL
§ 153.100 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide a downtown commercial area for business
which provides community and trade area services.
(Prior Code, § 3.0601)
§ 153.101 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Antique stores;
   (B)   Apparel and accessory stores;
   (C)   Bakeries, retail only;
   (D)   Banks;
   (E)   Barber and beautician services;
   (F)   Beer, wine, and alcoholic beverage retail stores;
   (G)   Book and stationery stores;
   (H)   Bowling alleys;
   (I)   Camera and photographic supply stores;
   (J)   Confectionery stores;
   (K)   China and glassware stores;
   (L)   Civic, social, and fraternal associations; community buildings owned
by public agencies;
   (M)   Credit services, including loan offices;
   (N)   Community buildings owned by public agencies;
   (O)   Dairy product retail stores;
   (P)   Dental services;
   (Q)   Department stores;
   (R)   Drapery, curtain, and upholstery stores;
   (S)   Drinking places, including taverns;
   (T)   Drug and proprietary stores;
   (U)   Dwellings, as permitted in the R3 District;
   (V)   General merchandise retail stores;
   (W)   Eating places, indoor (outdoor);
   (X)   Electrical appliances and television sales and repair;
   (Y)   Engineering and architectural services;
   (Z)   Filling stations (gasoline stations);
   (AA)   Finance, insurance, and real estate services;
   (BB)   Floor coverings, retail;
   (CC)   Food lockers without preparation facilities;
   (DD)   Food stores, general retail;
   (EE)   Furniture, and home furnishings retail;
   (FF)   Fur storage and retail;
   (GG)   Gifts, novelties, and souvenir stores;
   (HH)   Grocery stores;
   (II)   Hardware retail stores;
   (JJ)   Heating and air conditioning equipment retail;
   (KK)   Jewelry retail;
   (LL)   Laundry, self-service and/or dry cleaning plants;
   (MM)   Legal services;
   (NN)   Mail order houses, retail only;
   (OO)   Meat markets, retail only;
   (PP)   Medical and other health services;
   (QQ)   Motion picture theater, indoor;
   (RR)   Office furniture and supplies retail;
   (SS)   Paint, glass, and wallpaper retail;
   (TT)   Printing and engraving services;
   (UU)   Public parks;
   (VV)   Parking lots;
   (WW)   Radio and television broadcast studios;
   (XX)   Recreation center, indoor only;
   (YY)   Savings and loan associations;
   (ZZ)   Shoe repair services;
   (AAA)   Shoe sales, retail;
   (BBB)   Sporting goods, retail;
   (CCC)   Telephone and telegraph exchange stations;
   (DDD)   Tires, batteries, and accessories, retail;
   (EEE)   Utilities office and administrative services; and
   (FFF)   Cannabis dispensary (subject to §
153.225).
(Prior Code, § 3.0602)
(Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000; Ord. 607, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 153.102 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING.
   No specific requirements, except for the following uses:
      (A)   Community buildings owned and/or occupied by public agencies: one
space for each 300 square feet of floor area; and
      (B)   Parking lots: parking requirements contained in §
153.223 apply.
(Prior Code, § 3.0603)
§ 153.103 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the principal uses
permitted in this district are also permitted, excluding outdoor storage of
merchandise or machinery, or the conducting of repair services except in an
enclosed building or garage.
(Prior Code, § 3.0604)
§ 153.104 SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Subject to §§
32.01 through
32.04 and other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
   (A)   Any professional or educational service not specifically listed above;
   (B)   Funeral homes and mortuaries on lots of 12,000 square feet or more,
providing one off-street parking space for each 50 square feet of parlor area;
and
   (C)   Electrical and gas distribution substations, and other public utility
installations, but not including equipment storage or maintenance yards.
(Prior Code, § 3.0605)
§ 153.105 MINIMUM LOT AREA, WIDTH, AND DEPTH.
   None specified except as listed in §
153.104.
(Prior Code, § 3.0606)
§ 153.106 MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE, AND REAR YARDS.
   None required, except where a Commercial District abuts a Residential or
Agricultural District, a yard of 25 feet shall be provided between a permitted
commercial structure and the district boundary.
(Prior Code, § 3.0607)
§ 153.107 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   All structures must be 45 feet, or four stories.
(Prior Code, § 3.0608)
§ 153.108 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (A)   Name plate or home occupation sign not larger than one square foot in
area;
   (B)   Temporary sign advertising the sale or lease of the premises, not
larger than eight square feet in area;
   (C)   Church and public building bulletin boards not larger than 12 square
feet in area;
   (D)   Signs identifying the location of easements, property lines,
utilities, hazards, or otherwise providing notice of restrictions on public
access, not to exceed five square feet in area;
   (E)   Trade or business signs relating only to the services, articles, or
products offered within the building to which it is attached, providing also
that:
      (1)   Signs mounted flat on the wall of a building shall not exceed 10%
of the area of the wall or 100 square feet, whichever is smaller;
      (2)   Overhanging signs attached to the building shall not project above
the height of the building, or more than four feet from the face of the
building, and shall not be larger than 30 square feet in area; and
      (3)   Not more than one sign of each category above may be provided for
any single use, although each sign may be a double-faced or back-to-back sign.
   (F)   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition. In
the event that they shall become illegible or their use shall cease, they shall
be removed within 15 days or be subject to a penalty as set forth in §
32.99.
(Prior Code, § 3.0609)
HC: HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL
§ 153.120 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide commercial area for those businesses
which normally function with, and need, major highway access.
(Prior Code, § 3.0701)
§ 153.121 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Automobile and truck sales, service, and repair;
   (B)   Auto wash;
   (C)   Bottled gas, and gasoline and fuel transfer and distribution;
   (D)   Bus terminals;
   (E)   Contract construction services;
   (F)   Dwellings, as in R1, R2, or R3 Districts, may be allowed;
   (G)   Farm machinery and equipment sales and services;
   (H)   Feed, grain, and fertilizer sales;
   (I)   Lumber yards and construction materials sales;
   (J)   Plumbing and heating services;
   (K)   Railroad and truck terminals, excluding stockyards;
   (L)   Veterinary services and small animal hospital;
   (M)   Wholesale distribution and warehousing;
   (N)   Garden supplies and nurseries;
   (O)   Golf driving ranges;
   (P)   Marine craft and accessories;
   (Q)   Manufactured/modular home sales;
   (R)   Miniature golf courses;
   (S)   Motels;
   (T)   Public utility installations and equipment storage;
   (U)   Restaurants, including drive-ins;
   (V)   Theaters, drive-in;
   (W)   Financial institutions, banks, credit unions, savings and loans,
including drive-ins; and
   (X)   Cannabis dispensary (subject to §
153.225).
(Prior Code, § 3.0702)
(Ord. 444, passed 10-4-1999; Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000; Ord. 607, passed 11-
15-2021)
§ 153.122 MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Parking shall be provided in the ratio of not less than one space for each
200 square feet of floor space in the building used for commercial purposes.
Such parking space may be located on the same lot as the building or within 300
feet of the building, provided it does not cross a divided street or divided
highway.
(Prior Code, § 3.0703)
§ 153.123 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Uses and structure customarily incidental to the principal uses of
this district;
   (B)   Storage warehouses in conjunction with permitted principal uses; and
   (C)   Vehicle storage garages or lots enclosed by a five foot high opaque
fence or planted screen.
(Prior Code, § 3.0704)
I: INDUSTRIAL
§ 153.135 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for the future development of new
industrial and certain commercial activities in areas where municipal utilities
are most readily available, and in areas where ingress and egress can be
provided in a safe and convenient manner. The activities located in this
district should be engaged in either manufacturing, wholesale commercial trade,
or commercial trade, with the majority of the trade or commerce having a market
area external to the immediate city area. It is further intended that
activities proposing to locate in any of the areas designated Industrial shall
satisfy the Planning Commission and the Common Council that the activities
conducted in the aforementioned areas shall conform to the pollution control
standards in existence for the state. No use shall be permitted that does not
conform to these minimum pollution control standards.
(Prior Code, § 3.0801)
§ 153.136 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Terminal yard, trucking;
   (B)   Wholesale distribution and warehousing;
   (C)   Manufacture and/or assembly of component parts;
   (D)   Food processing and packaging;
   (E)   Fertilizer production or mixing;
   (F)   Concrete batch plant;
   (G)   Cement or clay products manufacture;
   (H)   Contract construct equipment storage;
   (I)   Fuel storage yard;
   (J)   Machine shops;
   (K)   Truck and tractor repair;
   (L)   Manufactured/modular home construction; and
   (M)   Beverage bottling or distribution.
(Prior Code, § 3.0802) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.137 MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Parking shall be provided in the ratio of not less than one space for each
200 square feet of floor space in the building used for commercial purposes.
Such parking space may be located on the same lot as the building, provided it
does not cross a divided street or divided highway.
(Prior Code, § 3.0803)
§ 153.138 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Any residential dwelling, except caretaker or watchman quarters;
   (B)   Hotels, motels, manufactured homes, and manufactured home parks;
   (C)   Churches, schools, institutions, and other public and semi-public
uses, except for trade and vocational schools;
   (D)   Restaurants, unless for private use of one industrial or commercial
establishment and located on the same site as the establishment it serves; and
   (E)   Taverns.
(Prior Code, § 3.0804) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.139 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Uses and structures customarily incidental to the principal uses of
this district;
   (B)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, provided
such buildings are removed promptly upon termination of construction work; and
   (C)   Vehicle storage garages or lots enclosed by a five-foot high opaque
fence or planted screen.
(Prior Code, § 3.0805)
§ 153.140 MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE, AND REAR YARDS.
   For structures in this district, the minimum required front, side, and rear
yard measurements are as follows:
   (A)   Front: 20 feet;
   (B)   Rear: 20 feet; and
   (C)   Side: ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 3.0806)
§ 153.141 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   All structures must be 45 feet, or four stories.
(Prior Code, § 3.0807)
E: ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION DISTRICT
§ 153.155 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for the retention of unique natural
areas and prevent the destructive uses of such land.
(Prior Code, § 3.0901)
§ 153.156 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Open spaces;
   (B)   Parks, both public and private;
   (C)   Fish and wildlife preserves;
   (D)   Recreation areas; and
   (E)   Boat docks, and piers.
(Prior Code, § 3.0902)
§ 153.157 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Necessary utilities which support environmental conservation district
activities; and
   (B)   On-site signs which are necessary for the identification of
Environmental Conservation District facilities and activities.
(Prior Code, § 3.0903)
§ 153.158 PERMITTED CONDITIONAL USES.
   Commercial outdoor recreation uses that coordinate with principal permitted
uses, as determined by the Zoning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3.0904)
§ 153.159 MINIMUM REQUIRED FRONT, SIDE, AND REAR YARDS.
   For structures in this district, the minimum required front, side, and rear
yard measurements are as follows:
   (A)   Front: 75 feet;
   (B)   Side: 100 feet; and
   (C)   Rear: 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 3.0905)
§ 153.160 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   All structures must be 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 3.0906)
M: MANUFACTURED HOME PARK
§ 153.175 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide orderly, safe, and healthful
development of manufactured home parks within the city and within the area
surrounding the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.1001) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.176 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Manufactured home parks;
   (B)   Public parks, playgrounds, or play fields;
   (C)   Administrative offices; and
   (D)   Convenience facilities for inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 3.1002) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.177 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Manufactured homes must have two spaces per home.
(Prior Code, § 3.1003) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.178 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Private garage containing not more than three vehicle spaces; and
   (B)   Customary home occupations.
(Prior Code, § 3.1004)
§ 153.179 SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Subject to §§
32.01 through
32.04 and to other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following: Electrical and gas distribution substations, and other
public utility installations, provided that any building, substation, or other
installation shall conform to the front and rear yard requirements for
dwellings and have side yards of not less than 25 feet, but shall not include
equipment storage, maintenance yards of buildings, or general administrative or
sales offices.
(Prior Code, § 3.1005)
§ 153.180 MINIMUM AREA AND WIDTH.
   (A)   A distance of 12 feet shall be maintained between manufactured homes
in all directions. A distance of 12 feet must also be maintained from the lot
line and/or the corner edge of the lot line.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be parked a minimum of five feet from the lot
line at the foremost part of the manufactured home.
(Prior Code, § 3.1006) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.181 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The park shall comply with all licensing procedures, health, zoning,
plumbing, electrical, building, fire prevention, and all other applicable
ordinances and regulations of the city.
   (B)   All utilities must be located underground to each lot.
   (C)   Private sewage, and electrical and water lines, must be located at
each lot, including a water meter at each lot.
   (D)   The request for zoning designation shall specify the location and
legal description of the proposed manufactured home park and a plan of the park
to include property dimensions, interior roads, proposed manufactured home
sites, sanitary utility lines, and other improvements.
   (E)   The park shall be properly landscaped, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, so as not to constitute a nuisance to other residents.
   (F)   Minimum land area for manufactured home parks shall be two and one-
half acres.
(Prior Code, § 3.1007) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
V: VACATION; RECREATION AREA
§ 153.195 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide greater flexibility for vacation or
recreation types of permanent dwellings, manufactured homes or vehicles, and
related commercial establishments.
(Prior Code, § 3.1101) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.196 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Dwelling, single-family;
   (B)   Dwellings, two-family;
   (C)   Dwellings, three-family;
   (D)   Dwellings, four-family;
   (E)   Modular homes pursuant to §
153.224(A) through (H);
   (F)   Manufactured homes pursuant to §
153.224(A) through (H);
   (G)   Campgrounds; and
   (H)   Vacation/recreation-related commercial establishments.
(Prior Code, § 3.1102) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.197 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Minimum space must be two spaces per dwelling or manufactured home. For
commercial buildings, §§
153.102 or
153.122 shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 3.1103)
§ 153.198 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily, and/or incidental, to the
principal uses permitted in this district use also permitted:
      (1)   Private garages;
      (2)   Customary home occupation; and
      (3)   Storage buildings.
   (B)   Adequate storage facilities must be provided so that outdoor storage
of merchandise, machinery, equipment, or residue will not cause the area to
become blighted or unsightly, nor cause a nuisance thereby.
(Prior Code, § 3.1104)
§ 153.199 SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Subject to §§
32.01 through
32.04 and to other requirements contained herein, the Board of Adjustment may
permit the following:
   (A)   Electrical and gas distribution substations, and other public utility
installations, provided that any building, substation, or other installation
shall conform to the front and rear requirements for dwellings and have side
yards of not less than 25 feet, but shall not include equipment storage,
maintenance yards or buildings, or general administrative or sales offices;
   (B)   Approve or reject uses not stated in this section; and
   (C)   Dwellings, multiple-family.
(Prior Code, § 3.1105) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.200 MINIMUM AREA AND WIDTH.
   (A)   Manufactured homes. A distance of 12 feet shall be maintained, in all
directions, between manufactured homes. Manufactured homes shall be parked a
minimum of five feet from the lot line at the foremost part of the manufactured
home.
   (B)   Dwellings and modular homes.
      (1)   Front: 20 feet;
      (2)   Side-interior lot: six feet;
      (3)   Side-corner lot: 20 feet; and
      (4)   Rear: 20 feet.
   (C)   Section
153.107 shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 3.1106) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.201 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   Section
153.108 shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 3.1107)
§ 153.202 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All structures shall comply with all licensing procedures, health,
zoning, plumbing, electrical, building, fire-prevention, and all other
applicable ordinances and regulations of the city;
   (B)   All utilities must be located underground to each lot;
   (C)   Private sewage, and electrical and water lines, must be located at
each separate unit, including a separate water meter for each unit or lot;
   (D)   The request for zoning designation shall specify the location and
legal description of the proposed placement of the structure or manufactured
home, and a plan must be submitted to include property dimensions, interior
roads, proposed manufactured, modular, or dwelling sites, sanitary utility
lines, and other improvements; and
   (E)   Lots shall be properly landscaped, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, so as not to constitute a hazard or a nuisance to other residents.
(Prior Code, § 3.1108) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.215 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   On a corner lot in any residential district, nothing shall be erected,
placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as materially to impede
vision between a height of two and one-half and ten feet above the center line
grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines of
such corner lots, and a line joining points along said street lines 50 feet
from the point of the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 3.1201)
§ 153.216 FENCES, WALLS, AND HEDGES.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, fences, walls, and hedges
may be permitted in any required yard, or along the edge of any yard, provided
that no fence, wall, or hedge along the sides or front edge of any front yard
shall be over two and one-half feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 3.1202)
§ 153.217 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No accessory building shall be erected in any required yard, and no separate
accessory building shall be erected within five feet of any other building.
(Prior Code, § 3.1203)
§ 153.218 ERECTION OF MORE THAN ONE STRUCTURE ON A LOT.
   In any district, more than one structure housing a permitted or permissible
principal use may be erected on a single lot, provided that yard and other
requirements of this chapter shall be met for each structure as though it were
on an individual lot.
(Prior Code, § 3.1204)
§ 153.219 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATION.
   The height limitations contained in the schedule of district regulations do
not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators,
chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof
level and not intended for human occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 3.1205)
§ 153.220 STRUCTURES TO HAVE ACCESS.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a
public street, or with access to an approved private street, and all structures
shall be so located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for
servicing, fire protection, and required off-street parking.
(Prior Code, § 3.1206)
§ 153.221 PARKING, STORAGE, OR USE OF RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   For purposes of these regulations, MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT is
defined as including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, pick-up campers,
and/or coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized
dwellings, tent trailers, and the like, and cases or boxes used for
transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied by such equipment or not.
   (B)   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any lot
in a residential district except in a car port or enclosed building, or behind
the nearest portion of a building to a street, provided, however, that such
equipment may be parked anywhere on residential premises for not to exceed 24
hours during loading or unloading.
   (C)   No such equipment shall be used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping
purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot, or any location not
approved for such use.
(Prior Code, § 3.1207)
§ 153.222 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current license
plates shall not be parked or stored on any residentially-zoned property other
than in completely enclosed buildings.
(Prior Code, § 3.1208)
§ 153.223 PARKING LOTS.
   Minimum parking lot requirements shall include vehicular access to a street
or alley, and 250 square feet of parking space per vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 3.1209)
§ 153.224 MANUFACTURED, MODULAR HOME STANDARDS.
   (A)   All modular and manufactured homes not located in manufactured home
parks shall:
      (1)   Be set on a permanent foundation with frost footings, and the
outside perimeter of the home shall be enclosed with a material replicating an
exterior wall of a site-built home;
      (2)   Connect to water and sewer lines via individual services and curb
stops;
      (3)   Conform to the same lot size(s) and yard requirements as those of
single-family and modular dwellings;
      (4)   Provide the same off-street parking space(s) as those of single-
family and modular dwellings;
      (5)   Be shingled with conventional roofing products;
      (6)   Have a main roof pitch of not less than three inches of rise for
each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (7)   Encase the exterior walls with conventional house siding (flat or
corrugated sheet metal is prohibited);
      (8)   Have a minimum width of the main body of the manufactured home, as
assembled on the site, of not less than 20 feet, as measured across the
narrowest portion;
      (9)   Be placed with the long axis of the home parallel to the street;
      (10)   Remove the running gear and hitch;
      (11)   Be anchored to the ground to resist tipping and lateral movement
in the manner contemplated by the manufactured design;
      (12)   Meet or exceed the Federal HUD Manufactured Home Construction and
Safety Standards; and
      (13)   Be placed or tied in accordance with the prevailing neighborhood
pattern.
   (B)   Prior to placement of a modular or manufactured home on the
foundation, the foundation and materials proposed to enclose the home perimeter
must be inspected and approved by the City Zoning Administrator, or his or her
designee.
(Prior Code, § 3.1210) (Ord. 451, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 153.225 CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   (1)   In the development and execution of these regulations, it is
recognized that there are some uses which, because of their very nature, are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances,
thereby having a potential deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas. Special
regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these adverse effects will
not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood.
The primary control or regulation is for the purpose of preventing a
concentration of these uses in any one area.
      (2)   The city shall allow up to one cannabis dispensary, provided the
time, place, and manner of said dispensaries comply with this section.
   (B)   A cannabis dispensary shall be located not less than 1,000 feet from a
public or private school existing before the date of the cannabis dispensary
application.
   (C)   Other location requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Permanent or temporary dispensaries are prohibited in all other
zoning districts and not eligible for a home occupation use; and
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate a dispensary in a building which
contains a residence or mixed-use building with commercial and residential
uses.
   (D)   No cannabis establishment shall share premises with, or permit access
directly from, another medical cannabis establishment, business that sells
alcohol or tobacco, or, if allowed by law, other cannabis establishment.
   (E)   Cannabis dispensaries are allowed to be open between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday.
   (F)   No cannabis dispensary shall acquire, possess, store, deliver,
transfer, transport, supply, or dispense cannabis, cannabis products, or
paraphernalia without providing documentation of a license from the state.
   (G)   The Zoning Official is authorized to issue permits (building/use) for
cannabis dispensaries subject to the following:
      (1)   Submission of a site plan containing the following:
         (a)   Any information required for applicable building permit;
         (b)   Ingress and egress plan;
         (c)   Parking plan;
         (d)   Lighting plan (including security lighting);
         (e)   Screening/security fencing plan;
         (f)   Refuse plan;
         (g)   Hours of operation; and
         (h)   Any other information as lawfully may be required by the Zoning
Official to determine compliance with this section.
      (2)   Documentation of ability to meet setback/separation requirements;
and
      (3)   Documentation of state licensure.
   (H)   All cannabis establishments are required to be constructed in
conformance with the 2021 edition of the International Building Code and
International Fire Code.
(Ord. 607, passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.240 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   An Administrative Official designated by the Common Council shall
administer and enforce this chapter. He or she may be provided with the
assistance of such other persons as the Common Council may direct.
   (B)   (1)   If the Administrative Official shall find that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in
writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of
the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it.
      (2)   He or she shall order discontinuance of illegal use of land,
buildings, or structures and the removal of illegal buildings or structures, or
of illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes, discontinuance of any
illegal work being done, or shall take any other action authorized by this
chapter to ensure compliance with, or to prevent violation of, its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 3.1301)
§ 153.241 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved in or out, added to,
or structurally altered without a permit therefor issued by the Administrative
Official. No building permit shall be issued by the Administrative Official
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, unless he or she
receives a written order from the Board of Adjustment in the form of an
administrative review, special exception, or variance as provided by this
chapter. This section does not apply to agriculture or agriculturally-related
structures.
(Prior Code, § 3.1302)
§ 153.242 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by plans in
duplicate drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to
be built upon, the exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already
existing, if any, and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or
alteration.
   (B)   The application shall include such other information as lawfully may
be required by the Administrative Official, including existing or proposed
building or alteration, existing or proposed uses of the building and land, the
number of families, housekeeping units, or rental units the building is
designed to accommodate, conditions existing on the lot, and such other matters
as may be necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for the
enforcement of, this section.
   (C)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
Administrative Official, after he or she shall have marked such copy either as
approved or disapproved and attested to the same by his or her signature on
such copy. The original copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained
by the Administrative Official.
(Prior Code, § 3.1303)
§ 153.243 CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy, or permit the use of occupancy, of
any building or premises, or both, or part thereof hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued
therefor by the Administrative Official stating that the proposed use of the
building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.1304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.244 EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   If the work described in any building permit has not begun within 90
days from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire, it shall be
canceled by the Administrative Official, and written notice thereof shall be
given to the persons affected.
   (B)   If the work described in any building permit has not been
substantially completed within two years of the date of issuance thereof, said
permit shall expire and be canceled by the Administrative Official, and written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice
that further work, as described in the canceled permit, shall not proceed
unless and until a new building permit has been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 3.1305)
§ 153.245 CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE PROVIDED AS DEMONSTRATED.
   Building permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
plans and applications, and any other use, arrangement, or construction at
variance with the authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, and
punishable as provided by §
32.99 hereof.
(Prior Code, § 3.1306)
CHAPTER 154: RAZING STRUCTURES; MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
154.01   Permit for removal or razing; taxes to be paid
   
154.02   Mover’s license and permit
   
154.03   License, how obtained
   
154.04   Amount of license
   
154.05   Bond
   
154.06   Moving buildings over streets
   
154.07   Property moving/razing permit regulations
   
154.08   Public utilities
   
154.09   Building obstructing street
   
154.10   Small buildings not to be moved out of limits
   
154.11   Keeping premises safe and clean
§ 154.01 PERMIT FOR REMOVAL OR RAZING; TAXES TO BE PAID.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to move, tear down or
destroy any building off any lot within the city, unless a moving or razing
permit is first obtained and approved and issued by the City Council and, upon
which, taxes or special assessments have been levied, until after such taxes or
special assessments have been fully paid.
(Prior Code, § 12.0102)
§ 154.02 MOVER’S LICENSE AND PERMIT.
   No person or corporation except a licensed house mover, shall remove or move
from one lot to another, or over any of the streets, alleys, crosswalks or
parkways, or any city property, or from one lot to another any building, or
part of a building, within the limits of the city, unless waived by the City
Council. Additionally, every person or corporation shall annually, before
engaging in such occupation of building moving, obtain a license therefor;
provided, this section shall not apply to moving a building within the confines
of a lot or continuous lots when not necessary to move the same over any public
property or public streets; and, provided further, this section shall not apply
to any building which may be moved or removed by reason of its being condemned
as provided by law as a fire hazard.
(Prior Code, § 12.0102)
§ 154.03 LICENSE, HOW OBTAINED.
   Any person or corporation desiring to procure a license as a house mover,
unless waived, shall make written application therefor to the City Council
through the Municipal Finance Officer of the city and such license shall be
granted by the affirmative vote of a majority of all the members of said City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 12.0103)
§ 154.04 AMOUNT OF LICENSE.
   The applicant for a license for house moving shall pay to the Municipal
Finance Officer of the city the sum of $50 for a license per year, which shall
run from July 1 to June 30 of each year; provided, however, that, no license
fee be prorated for any part of a year, nor shall any part of any license be
refunded.
(Prior Code, § 12.0104)
§ 154.05 BOND.
   The applicant for a license for house moving shall also file, unless waived,
before he or she shall be permitted or authorized to move any building within
the city or any of its property, a bond with the Municipal Finance Officer of
the city, the bond to run in favor of the city; the same shall be in the penal
sum of $2,500, with good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the City
Council, and conditioned that the applicant, if a license be granted to him or
her, will, in carrying on his or her business of house moving within the city,
conform to all the regulations and requirements relating thereto, which are now
or may be hereafter established by the City Council, and that he will promptly
fill all basements left open as a result of moving any building as aforesaid,
and thereby leave the premises so vacated in a safe and sanitary condition, and
repair and make good to the satisfaction of the City Council and all damages to
any pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk, hydrant, street, alley or other property
done, or caused to be done by himself or herself, his or her servants or
employees, in moving any building or in connection with the moving thereof, and
that he or she will immediately pay indemnity and save harmless the city
against any and all liability for all damages, costs and expenses, arising or
which may arise in favor of any of his or her servants or employees in
connection with the moving of any public street or ground for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 12.0105)
§ 154.06 MOVING BUILDINGS OVER STREETS.
   Any person or corporation moving any house or other kind of building over or
across any street, alley, crosswalk or parkway shall, when directed by the City
Council, cause such street, alley, crosswalk or parkway, to be fully protected
against damage, by laying planks thereon, which planks must be sufficient to
prevent damage, and which planks must be immediately taken off the streets,
alleys, crosswalks or parkways after the said moving.
(Prior Code, § 12.0106)
§ 154.07 PROPERTY MOVING/RAZING PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   Before the owner of any building shall be authorized to move the same, or
permit the same to be moved by a licensed house mover, or remove from one lot
to another within the city, he or she shall obtain a permit therefor from the
City Council, which permit shall describe the route to be taken in so moving
such a building, or any part thereof, and the length of time which may be
consumed in the work, and he or she shall make written application for such
permit to the said City Council, through the Municipal Finance Officer, and the
application may be granted by an affirmative vote of a majority of the members
of said City Council and, when granted, he or she shall, thereupon, pay to the
Municipal Finance Officer of the city the sum of $50 for such permit; provided,
however, that, no permit shall be issued to any person or corporation to move
any building over any of its streets, alleys, crosswalks or parkways under any
of the following conditions, to-wit:
   (A)   At a time when the streets or alleys or public property over which
said building is to be moved shall be wet or soft, because of climatic
conditions, in order to prevent damage;
   (B)   Before all taxes and special assessments levied upon such building or
buildings shall have been fully paid;
   (C)   Where the removal thereof will create a nuisance by leaving a
dangerous, unfilled or unprotected excavation under any sidewalk, or part of a
street, or where any city sewer or water main may be left unprotected against
damage of freezing, or otherwise exposed to damage, until such excavation has
been made secure and safe for and to the public, and until any sewer or water
main has been fully protected against any and all damage. The City Council
shall in all cases require from the owner of the real estate from which such
building is to be removed, a good and sufficient bond in the amount of $1,000
in favor of the city and conditioned that such owner shall at all times after
the removal of such building, keep the premises from which such building is to
be removed, in a safe and secure condition and to protect the city against any
and all liability and damages as a result of the removal of such building.
(Prior Code, § 12.0107)
§ 154.08 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Nothing in any license or permit granted shall be construed as authorizing
the holder thereof to break, injure or move any telegraph, telephone or
electric light pole, lines or wires, or in any way injure shade trees, or other
property without the permission from the owner or owners thereof; provided,
however, that, the person seeking such moving permit must make his or her own
arrangements with the owners, and pay for the removal or cutting of any public
utility poles, wires or other property; and, provided further that, no public
utility service shall be disrupted for a period of more than one hour as a
result of the moving of any building within the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.0108)
§ 154.09 BUILDING OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   No building or any part of a building shall be allowed to stand still in any
public street, or any public ground in the city for more than 24 consecutive
hours. The mover of any building over any of the streets of the city must at
all times put up proper and sufficient flares and other necessary warning
signals to warn and guard the public against any damage by reason of such
moving.
(Prior Code, § 12.0109)
§ 154.10 SMALL BUILDINGS NOT TO BE MOVED OUT OF LIMITS.
   The City Council shall have the right and authority by resolution to
regulate, by all reasonable regulations, the moving of all small buildings
within the city, the assessed valuation of which is not in excess of $300;
provided, however, that, such small building will not be moved out of the
limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.0110)
§ 154.11 KEEPING PREMISES SAFE AND CLEAN.
   Where a building is removed from the city, or is moved from one location to
another within the city, and there is a cellar, basement or other excavation
under said building so removed, the owner thereof is hereby required to fill up
such cellar, basement or excavation to an elevation of the surface of the
ground in that vicinity, and to mow the weeds or grass upon said premises so
that the vacant lot and the cellar, basement of excavation thereon. When
filled, it must be kept in a sightly, attractive, safe and sanitary condition
at all times, and not to permit such premises to become a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 12.0111)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
III.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: PUBLIC PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Declaring the main floor of a bank building on the
-        - -         northwest corner of Block 34 as the benchmark of a point
                     or level 200 feet above an assumed plain.
                     (Prior Code, § 2.0201)
                     Several grade measurements throughout the city, except at
                     Eighth Street between Cedar and Elm Streets; the figures
-        - -         measured by the city indicate the grade at the outer edge
                     of the sidewalk, ten feet from the lot line.
                     (Prior Code, § 2.0202)
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
429      7-3-1996    Amending the official zoning map; Block 62, classified as
                     R2 Two-Family Residential
446      1-3-2000    Amending the official zoning map; annexed Peterson
                     property, classified as HC Highway Commercial
                     Amending the official zoning map; Block A in McIntyre,
447      1-3-2000    Brookings, Foster and Robinson Addition, classified as HC
                     Highway Commercial
                     Amending the official zoning map; proposed property to be
448      3-6-2000    purchased in the Peterson Addition, classified as R-
                     3 Multiple-Family
453      7-24-2001   Amending the official zoning map; Peterson Addition,
                     classified as M Manufactured Home Park
                     Amending the official zoning map; generally known as the
458      11-4-2002   Mike Dufree State Prison Correctional Facility, classified
                     as R1 Single-Family Residential
467      8-1-2005    Amending the official zoning map; original Block 1,
                     classified as R1 Single-Family Residential
472      7-10-2006   Amending the official zoning map; original Lots 1, 2 and
                     3, Block 29, classified as R3 Multi-Family Residential
                     Amending the official zoning map; original Lots 4 through
475      9-5-2006    7 and north 40 feet of Lots 11 and 12, Block 29,
                     classified as C Commercial
                     Amending the official zoning map; property located in
495      8-6-2012    Glenn (Pete) Peterson Addition, classified as V Vacation
                     Recreation Area
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
436      7-1-1998    Cable franchise agreement with Golden West Cablevision,
                     Inc.
498      7-1-2013    Cable franchise agreement with Golden West Cablevision,
                     Inc.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Cites Code Section
SDCL Cites Code Section
Ch. 1-27   31.01
9-1-1      10.02;
           10.04
9-12-1     151.01
9-13-13    10.04
9-19-1     10.04
9-19-3     10.99
9-32-1     151.01
9-34-7     113.12
9-36-1     151.01
9-36-17    151.01
           34.16;
10-45      34.19;
           34.99
           34.18;
10-46      34.19;
           34.99
10-52      34.15;
           34.17
11-4       32.01;
           32.04
11-4-24    32.01;
           32.04
21-10-6    90.050
22-6-2(2)  10.99
32-12-1    72.01
32-14-13   72.01
32-14-14   72.01
32-14-16   72.01
32-15-8    72.01
32-15-10   72.01
32-17-4    72.01
32-17-12   72.23
           115.20-
34-20G     115.22;
           115.25
34-20G-1   115.02;
           153.006
           114.09;
35-4       114.21;
           114.23;
           130.01
35-4.2     114.20
           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
1.0301     30.20
1.0302     30.21
1.0303     30.22
1.0304     30.23
1.0305     31.15
1.0306     31.15
1.0307     31.20
1.0308     31.17
1.0309     31.16
1.0310     31.17
1.0311     31.17
1.0312     31.19
1.0313     31.01
1.0314     30.08
1.0401     30.01
1.0402     30.02
1.0403     30.03
1.0404     30.04
1.0405     30.05
1.0406     30.05
1.0407     30.06
1.0408     30.07
1.0501     30.35
1.0502     30.36
1.0601     31.35
1.0602     31.36
1.0603     31.36
1.0604     34.01
1.0605     31.37
1.0606     31.38
1.0607     33.01
1.0608     31.39
1.0609     31.40
1.0701     30.09
1.0702     31.02
1.0801     34.15
1.0802     34.16
1.0803     34.17
1.0804     34.18
1.0805     34.19
1.0806     34.99
2.0101     35.01
2.0102     11.01
2.0103     11.02
2.0104     30.24
2.0201     TSO Table I
2.0202     TSO Table I
2.0203     152.02
2.0204     152.03
2.0205     152.04
2.0301     152.16
2.0302     152.17
2.0303     152.17
2.0401     152.01
2.0402     152.15
2.0501     152.17
2.0502     152.31
2.0503     152.32
3.0101     153.001
3.0102     153.002
3.0103     153.003
3.0104     153.004
3.0105     153.005
3.0201     153.020
3.0202     153.021
3.0203     153.022
3.0204     153.023
3.0205     153.024
3.0206     153.025
3.0207     153.026
3.0208     153.027
3.0301     153.040
3.0302     153.041
3.0303     153.042
3.0304     153.043
3.0305     153.044
3.0306     153.045
3.0307     153.046
3.0308     153.047
3.0309     153.048
3.0401     153.060
3.0402     153.061
3.0403     153.062
3.0404     153.063
3.0405     153.063
3.0406     153.063
3.0407     153.063
3.0408     153.067
3.0409     153.068
3.0501     153.080
3.0502     153.081
3.0503     153.082
3.0504     153.083
3.0505     153.084
3.0506     153.085
3.0507     153.086
3.0508     153.087
3.0601     153.100
3.0602     153.100
3.0603     153.102
3.0604     153.103
3.0605     153.104
3.0606     153.105
3.0607     153.106
3.0608     153.107
3.0609     153.108
3.0701     153.120
3.0702     153.121
3.0703     153.122
3.0704     153.123
3.0801     153.135
3.0802     153.136
3.0803     153.137
3.0804     153.138
3.0805     153.139
3.0806     153.140
3.0807     153.140
3.0901     153.155
3.0902     153.156
3.0903     153.157
3.0904     153.158
3.0905     153.159
3.0906     153.160
3.1001     153.175
3.1002     153.176
3.1003     153.177
3.1004     153.178
3.1005     153.179
3.1006     153.180
3.1007     153.181
3.1101     153.195
3.1102     153.196
3.1103     153.197
3.1104     153.198
3.1105     153.199
3.1106     153.200
3.1107     153.201
3.1108     153.202
3.1201     153.215
3.1202     153.216
3.1203     153.217
3.1204     153.218
3.1205     153.219
3.1206     153.220
3.1207     153.221
3.1208     153.222
3.1209     153.223
3.1210     153.224
3.1301     153.240
3.1302     153.241
3.1303     153.242
3.1304     153.243
3.1305     153.244
3.1306     153.245
3.1401     32.01
3.1402     32.02
3.1404     32.03
3.1405     32.03
3.1406     32.03
3.1407     32.03
3.1408     32.04
3.1501     32.04
3.1502     32.05
3.1503     32.06
3.1504     32.07
3.1505     32.08
3.1506     32.99
3.1701     153.006
4.0101     32.20
4.0102     32.21
4.0103     32.22
4.0104     32.22
4.0105     32.23
4.0106     32.24
4.0107     32.24
4.0108     32.25
4.0109     32.26
4.0110     32.99
4.0111     32.27
4.0201     90.001
4.0202     91.002
4.0203     91.090
4.0204     90.006
4.0205     90.007
4.0206     90.002
4.0207     90.999
4.0208     90.003
4.0301     52.01
4.0302     52.15
4.0303     111.02
4.0304     52.02
4.0305     111.01
4.0306     52.16
4.0307     52.16
4.0309     52.17
4.0310     52.04
4.0311     52.18
4.0312     111.03
4.0313     31.41
4.0314     52.20
4.0315     52.19;
           52.99
4.0316     90.007;
           90.999
4.0317     111.04
4.0318     90.071;
           90.999
4.0401     116.01
4.0402     116.02
4.0403     116.03
4.0404     116.04
4.0405     116.05
4.0501     110.01
4.0502     110.02
4.0503     110.03
4.0504     110.04
4.0601     90.020
4.0602     90.021
4.0603     90.022
4.0604     90.023
4.0605     90.024
4.0606     90.025
4.0701     90.040
4.0702     90.041
4.0703     90.042
4.0704     90.043
4.0705     90.044
4.0706     90.045
4.0707     90.046
4.0708     90.047
4.0709     90.048
4.0710     90.049
4.0711     90.050
4.0801     151.01
4.0802     151.02
4.0803     151.03
4.0804     151.04
4.0805     151.05
5.0101     50.01
5.0102     31.40
5.0201     50.02
5.0202     50.03
5.0203     50.10
5.0204     50.40
5.0205     50.41
5.0206     50.04
5.0207     50.26
5.0301     50.11
5.0302     50.11
5.03021    50.11
5.0303     50.12
5.0304     50.06
5.0305     50.06
5.0306     50.13
5.0307     50.07
5.0308     50.14
5.0309     50.08
5.0310     50.25
5.0311     50.27
5.0312     50.05
5.0313     50.09
5.0314     50.28
5.0315     50.25
5.0316     50.29
5.0401     50.55
5.0402     50.56
5.0403     50.57
5.0404     50.58
5.0405     50.59
5.0406     50.60
5.0407     50.61
5.0408     50.62
5.0409     50.63
5.0500.0   51.01
5.0500.1   51.21
5.0500.2   51.22
5.0500.3   51.23
5.0501     51.02
5.0502     51.03
5.0503     51.24
5.0504     51.04
5.0505     51.40
5.0506     51.41
5.0507     51.25
5.0508     51.26
5.0602     51.05
5.0603     51.08
5.0604     51.06
5.0605     51.07
5.0606     51.20
5.0701     92.01
5.0702     92.02
5.0703     92.03
5.0704     92.04
5.0705     92.05
5.0706     92.06
5.0707     92.07
5.0708     92.99
5.0709     92.08;
           92.99
6.0101     91.003
6.0102     91.001
6.0202     91.051
6.0203     91.052
6.0204     91.053
6.0205     91.054
6.0206     91.034
6.0207     91.055
6.0208     91.015
6.0209     91.016
6.0210     91.017
6.0211     91.018
6.0301     91.030
6.0302     91.031
6.0303     91.032
6.0304     91.033
6.0305     91.035
6.0401     91.091
6.0402     91.092
6.0403     91.093
6.0404     91.094
6.0405     91.095
6.0406     91.096
6.0407     91.097
6.0501     91.999
6.0502     91.999
6.0503     91.999
6.0601     112.02
6.0602     112.01
6.0603     112.03
6.0604     112.04
6.0605     112.05
6.0607     112.06
6.0608     112.07
6.0609     112.08
6.0610     112.99
6.0801     114.01
6.0802     114.02
6.0803     114.03
6.0804     114.04
6.0805     114.05
6.0806     114.07
6.0807     114.06
6.0808     114.08
6.0809     114.09
6.0810     114.99
6.0901     114.21
6.0902     114.23
6.0903     114.20
6.0904     114.24
6.0905     114.25
6.0906     114.26
6.0907     114.22
7.0101     70.01
7.0102     70.03
7.0103     70.04
7.0104     72.15
7.0105     72.16
7.0106     72.16
7.0107     72.18
7.0108     72.19
7.0109     72.20
7.0110     72.21
7.0111     72.22
7.0112     72.23
7.0113     72.24
7.0114     72.25
7.0115     70.02
7.0201     70.20
7.0202     70.21
7.0203     70.22
7.0204     70.23
7.0205     70.24
7.0206     70.25
7.0207     70.26
7.0208     70.27
7.0209     70.38
7.0210     70.39
7.0211     70.40
7.0212     70.41
7.0213     70.28
7.0214     70.29
7.0215     70.29
7.0216     70.30
7.0217     70.30
7.0218     70.31
7.0301     70.32
7.0302     70.34
7.0303     70.35
7.0304     70.05
7.0305     70.36
7.0306     70.33
7.0401     71.01
7.0402     71.02
7.0403     71.03
7.0404     Ch. 74, Schd. I
7.0405     71.04
7.0406     71.05
7.0601     70.37
7.0602     Ch. 73, Schd. I
7.0801     90.004
7.0802     90.007
7.0803     90.999
7.0901     152.45
7.0902     152.46
7.0903     152.47
7.0904     152.48
7.0905     152.49
7.0906     152.50
7.0907     152.99
7.0908     152.45
8.0108     33.19
8.0109     33.20
8.0110     33.21
8.0111     33.22
8.0201     150.15
8.0202     150.99
8.0203     150.16
8.0204     150.17
8.0205     150.18
8.0206     150.19
8.0207     150.20
8.0208     150.21
8.0301     150.01
8.0302     150.02
8.0401     131.50
8.0403     131.50
8.0404     131.99
8.0405     131.51
9.0101     91.070
9.0102     91.071
9.0103     91.072
9.0104     91.073
9.0105     91.074
9.0106     91.075
9.0107     91.999
9.0108     91.999
10.0101    131.01
10.0102    131.02
10.0103    150.01
10.0104    131.06
10.0105    131.36
10.0106    131.20
10.0107    131.03
10.0108    131.37
10.0109    131.04
10.0110    131.05
10.0111    131.52
10.0201    131.65
10.0202    131.66
10.0301    112.99
10.0302    112.20
10.0303    112.21
10.0401    130.01
10.0402    130.01
10.0403    130.15
10.0404    130.99
10.0405    130.16;
           130.99
10.0406    130.17
10.0501    131.35
10.0502    70.07;
           70.99
10.0503    70.05;
           70.99
10.0503    70.99
10.0504    70.06
10.0505    131.07
10.0506    33.02
10.0507    35.02
10.0601    90.005
12.0101    154.01
12.0102    154.02
12.0103    154.03
12.0104    154.04
12.0105    154.05
12.0106    154.06
12.0107    154.07
12.0108    154.08
12.0109    154.09
12.0110    154.10
12.0111    154.11
13.0101    93.01
13.0102    93.02
13.0103    93.03
13.0104    93.04
13.0201    93.05
13.0202    93.06
13.0203    93.07
13.0204    93.08
13.0205    93.09
13.0301    93.10
13.0302    93.11
13.0303    93.12
13.0401    93.13
13.0402    93.14
13.0501    93.25
13.0502    93.26
13.0503    93.27
13.0504    93.28
13.0505    93.29
13.0506    93.30
13.0507    93.31
13.0508    93.32
13.0601    93.99
13.0602    93.99
13.0603    93.99
13.0701    93.99
           
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
404      5-2-1990    52.03
406      11-7-1990   113.02
                     91.001;
407      3-6-1991    91.015-
                     91.017;
                     91.999
409      8-5-1992    52.03
410      9-2-1992    50.12;
                     50.14
411      9-2-1992    90.040-
                     90.050
                     33.15;
414      9-1-1993    33.16;
                     33.18;
                     33.19
415      10-6-1993   52.03
417      1-5-1994    50.26
418      1-5-1994    51.20
420      11-2-1994   50.07;
                     50.11
421      6-7-1995    52.03
423      9-6-1995    51.07
426      2-7-1996    91.001
                     130.15-
427      2-7-1997    130.17;
                     130.99
429      7-3-1996    TSO Table II
431      - -1997     151.01-
                     151.05
432      6-4-1997    Charter
435      10-1-1997   52.03
436      7-1-1998    TSO Table III
441      9-8-1999    30.02
444      10-4-1999   153.121
446      1-3-2000    TSO Table II
447      1-3-2000    TSO Table II
448      3-6-2000    TSO Table II
                     32.01;
                     32.03;
                     32.04;
                     32.06;
                     32.99;
                     153.002;
                     153.006;
                     153.021;
                     153.023;
                     153.041;
                     153.061;
                     153.081;
451      9-11-2000   153.101;
                     153.121;
                     153.136;
                     153.138;
                     153.175-
                     153.177;
                     153.180;
                     153.181;
                     153.195;
                     153.196;
                     153.199;
                     153.200;
                     153.202;
                     153.224
452      2-5-2001    91.999
453      7-24-2001   TSO Table II
455      10-1-2001   11.02
458      11-4-2002   TSO Table II
                     34.16;
460      8-11-2003   34.19;
                     34.99
467      8-1-2005    TSO Table II
469      9-1-2005    34.16;
                     34.18
470      12-5-2006   52.03
472      7-10-2006   TSO Table II
475      9-5-2006    TSO Table II
                     50.07;
477      8-6-2007    50.11;
                     51.07
483      10-5-2009   51.07
509      8-4-2008    92.09
482      10-5-2009   131.50
486      9-7-2010    50.12;
                     50.14
487      9-7-2010    91.030
488      9-7-2010    113.02
490      10-4-2010   114.09
491      4-4-2011    52.03
492      5-2-2011    50.07;
                     50.11
495      8-6-2012    TSO Table II
498      7-1-2013    TSO Table III
499      7-1-2013    33.15-
                     33.18
                     51.01;
501      10-7-2013   51.21-
                     51.23
503      9-8-2014    114.22
508      12-7-2015   114.08
509      1-4-2016    91.050
511      10-3-2016   52.03
512      3-6-2017    152.51;
                     152.99
                     90.065-
514      3-6-2017    90.070;
                     90.999
521      9-11-2017   131.50
522      8-5-2019    72.01;
                     72.99
602      10-7-2019   153.006
                     153.003;
                     153.006;
607      11-15-2021  153.100;
                     153.121;
                     153.225
                     115.01-
                     115.06;
608      11-15-2021  115.20-
                     115.28;
                     115.99
612      2-15-2022   30.37;
                     30.99
                    
 
