SUMMERSET, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-9 Supplement, current through:
Ordinance 2025-04, passed 7-17-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend, or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of an ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
Administrative Procedures
   
10.25   Scope and purpose
   
10.26   Definitions
   
10.27   Authority
   
10.28   Administrative citations
   
10.29   Remedies
   
10.30   Appeals
   
10.31   Complaints and abatements
   
10.32   Landowner responsible for any costs
 
   
10.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Summerset Code of
Ordinances,” for which designation “code of ordinances” or “codified
ordinances” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do
not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; and the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future,
if applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in COMPUTATIONS which include more
than one day and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNTY. Meade County.
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Commissioners of a municipality concerned or
affected.
   LOT. This includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. All cities and towns organized under
the laws of this state, but shall not include any other political subdivisions.
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county or counties in which the municipality is
located, or his or her heirs or successors.
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be published shall be equivalent to the required PUBLICATION.
   RESOLUTION. Any determination, decision, or direction of the governing body
of a municipality, of a temporary or special character, for the purpose of
initiating, effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STATE. The State of South Dakota.
   STREET. This includes AVENUE.
   CITY. The City of Summerset, South Dakota.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
Statutory reference:
Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-1-1 and 9-19-1
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCES TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND, OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS;
GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects as if this code had not been
enacted.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 10.25 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The enforcement of the city’s code is an important public service and is
vital to the protection of the public’s health, safety, and welfare. The city
has determined that there is a need for alternative methods of comprehensive
code enforcement, using both administrative and judicial remedies, and because
life- safety issues may be regulated through an administrative enforcement
process, penalties for any violation should be enhanced. The purpose of this
subchapter is to establish administrative regulations for the enforcement of
the city’s code of ordinances in order to properly protect the public’s health,
safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 36, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 10.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES. Administrative citations and civil
penalties as contained in this subchapter.
   CIVIL PENALTY. The administrative civil penalty assessed and all costs
incurred by the city from the first discovery of the violations until
compliance is achieved. It includes, but is not limited to, staff time and
expense in inspecting the property, sending notices, and preparing reports and
files.
   CODE. The city’s code of ordinances.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any city employee or agent of the city designated
with the authority to enforce any provision of this subchapter and issue notice
of violations or administrative citations.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any person or persons in charge of the premises or
location, or the person or persons responsible for the event or incident, and
includes any of the following:
      (1)   The person or persons who own the property where the violation
exists;
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the premises where the violation
exists;
      (3)   The person or persons using or renting the premises when the
violation exists;
      (4)   If any of the above is a minor, a parent or guardian of such minor
shall be the RESPONSIBLE PARTY; and
      (5)   If any of the above is a business entity, the manager or on-site
supervisor where the violation exists.
   ROLLING 12-MONTH PERIOD. Any 12 consecutive months following a violation.
(Ord. 36, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 10.27 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   General enforcement authority. For the purpose of this code, any Code
Enforcement Officer may issue notices of violation and administrative
citations, inspect public and private property, and enforce any available
administrative and judicial remedies.
   (B)   Authority to inspect. Any Code Enforcement Officer may enter upon any
property and make any examination and surveys necessary to perform her or his
enforcement duties. Inspections may include the taking of photographs, samples,
or other physical evidence. If an owner, occupant, or agent refuses permission
to enter to inspect, the Code Enforcement Officer may seek an administrative
inspection warrant pursuant to the procedures provided for in state law.
(Ord. 36, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 10.28 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of the code for which a civil
penalty may be assessed may be issued an administrative citation by a Code
Enforcement Officer as provided for in this subchapter.
      (2)   A continuing violation of the code constitutes a separate and
distinct violation each day that the violation exists.
      (3)   A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative
citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer and shall be payable directly
to the city.
      (4)   Penalties assessed by an administrative citation shall be collected
in accordance with the schedule of civil penalties.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   A Code Enforcement Officer may issue an administrative citation to
a responsible party as described in this subchapter. The citation shall be on
forms approved by the city.
      (2)   If the responsible party is not an individual, the administrative
citation may be issued in the name of the entity and served to a manager or on-
site supervisor as provided in this section.
      (3)   The responsible party shall sign the administrative citation. If
the responsible party refuses or fails to sign the administrative citation, the
failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the validity of the citation.
      (4)   The administrative citation may be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the property or a copy may be mailed to the responsible party.
      (5)   In the case of mailing, the city shall mail the citation to the
address of the owner of the property at the address listed in the office of the
County Director of Equalization and such action by the city shall meet any
notice requirement of this subchapter.
      (6)   The failure of any responsible party to receive notice shall not
affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this subchapter.
   (C)   Penalties assessed.
      (1)   Any civil penalties assessed shall be payable to the city within 20
days from the date of the administrative citation.
      (2)   Payment of the civil penalty shall not excuse the failure to
correct the violation nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the city.
      (3)   If the responsible party fails to correct the violation, subsequent
administrative citations may be issued for the same violations. The amount of
the civil penalty shall increase at a rate specified in ordinance.
   (D)   Failure to appeal or pay administrative citation penalties. The
failure of any person to file a timely appeal or pay the civil penalties within
the time specified on the citation shall constitute an irrefutable presumption
that a violation has occurred. It may result in the City Attorney filing legal
proceedings in magistrate or circuit court. Alternatively, the city may pursue
any other legal remedy available to collect the civil penalty or correct the
violation.
   (E)   Civil penalty amount. Refer to the fee schedule adopted by resolution.
The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to
time by resolution.
(Ord. 36, passed 11-4-2010; Ord. 2024-03, passed 4-18-2024)
§ 10.29 REMEDIES.
   The procedures established in this subchapter are in addition to other legal
remedies established by law which may be pursued to address violations of the
code. The use of this subchapter shall be at the sole discretion of the city.
(Ord. 36A, passed 4-3-2014)
§ 10.30 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals permitted.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a citation issued by any Code Enforcement
Officer under this title may appeal said citation to the Board of
Commissioners. Before filing an appeal, the aggrieved person is strongly
encouraged to meet with the City Administrator to discuss why the person
believes the citation was issued in error. If unresolved, the appeal may be
commenced.
      (2)   Appeals shall be commenced by filing a notice of appeal with the
Finance Officer for the city. There shall be a $100 fee assessed for filing an
appeal, which shall be paid to the City of Summerset at the time of filing the
appeal. The notice of appeal shall include a statement of the action complained
of, why the same should be modified or rescinded, an address where the
appellant can be mailed notice of hearings, and a copy of the citation issued.
Upon receipt of the appeal, all documents, including the appeal, shall be
forwarded from the Code Enforcement Coordinator and Finance Officer to the City
Attorney. The appeal shall be heard by the Board of Commissioners which may be
during a special or regular Board of Commissioners meeting or executive session
as decided by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Time of hearing and notice. A public hearing shall be held on all
appeals within 45 working days after the filing of the appeal, unless a later
date is agreed upon by the aggrieved person and the city. The city shall cause
written notice of the date, time, and place of such hearing to be served upon
the aggrieved person by personal service or certified mail to the address set
forth in the appeal documents at least ten days prior to the hearing. The
appeal shall be scheduled on the agenda of a regularly scheduled meeting of the
Board of Commissioners for a period of at 30 minutes unless otherwise directed
by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Hearing procedures. The following rules shall govern the procedures
for an administrative hearing.
      (1)   Hearings and administrative appeals need not be conducted according
to the technical rules relating to evidence and witnesses.
      (2)   Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the type of
evidence upon which reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of
serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory
rule which might make improper the admission for such evidence after objection
in civil actions in courts or competent jurisdiction in this state.
      (3)   Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence and evidence that lacks
trustworthiness shall be excluded.
   (D)   Rights of parties at hearing. The aggrieved person and the city shall
have these rights among others:
      (1)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issue
of the hearing;
      (2)   To introduce documentary, physical, and oral evidence;
      (3)   To cross examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing; and
      (4)   To rebut evidence.
   (E)   Decision. After each appeal hearing, the Board of Commissioners shall
consider the evidence in executive session and may state its decision when it
has concluded the executive session. In addition, the Board of Commissioners
shall provide written findings stating the following:
      (1)   The evidence the Board of Commissioners relied upon in reaching its
decision; and
      (2)   Based upon such written findings, the Board of Commissioners may
sustain or dismiss the citation or decision. In sustaining citation, the Board
of Commissioners may in its discretion reduce or waive the payment of any civil
penalty, permit, reinstatement, or late penalty fee.
   (F)   Report, costs. A written report of the decision, including the
findings, shall be furnished to the aggrieved person and the Community
Development Director within 20 working days from the date the appeal hearing is
closed. The city and the aggrieved person shall bear their own respective costs
of the appeal proceeding. The decision of the Board of Commissioners shall be
final.
   (G)   Subject to judicial review. The decision of the Board of Commissioners
may be subject to judicial review as provided by law.
(Ord. 36, passed 11-4-2010; Ord. 36A, passed 4-3-2014)
§ 10.31 COMPLAINTS AND ABATEMENTS.
   (A)   Filing a nuisance complaint.
      (1)   Unless otherwise stated in this subchapter, in the event any city
representative receives a complaint, either orally or in writing, he or she
shall forward the complaint to the Code Enforcement Officer for investigation.
      (2)   As part of the investigation, the Code Enforcement Coordinator
shall obtain the following information in writing:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the person making said
complaint;
         (b)   Address of the property for which the complaint is being filed;
and
         (c)   Nature of the complaint.
      (3)   After obtaining the necessary information from the complainant, the
Code Enforcement Coordinator will request assistance from the Code Enforcement
Officer or request an investigation by a more appropriate city employee and/or
agent as is necessary based upon the nature of the complaint.
   (B)   Courtesy letter; notice of violation. Unless otherwise stated in this
subchapter, in the event the Code Enforcement Coordinator, Code Enforcement
Officer, and/or agent finds that any violation exists, the Code Enforcement
Coordinator shall send a courtesy letter/notice of violation to the property
owner. The letter shall state the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the property owner;
      (2)   Address and legal description of the property in violation;
      (3)   Nature of the violation;
      (4)   Title, chapter, and section violated;
      (5)   Demand that the property owner become compliant; and
      (6)   The date upon which the representative will inspect the property
for compliance.
   (C)   Notice to complainant and right to review. In the event the Code
Enforcement Coordinator or Code Enforcement Officer and/or agent concludes that
a violation does not exist, the Code Enforcement Coordinator shall send a
letter to the complainant within 15 days of advising her or him of said
determination.
   (D)   Abatement or filing of review required within 15 days. Any person who
has received written notification of an existing violation shall either abate
said nuisance or file a written notice of review with the Code Enforcement
Coordinator within 15 days of receipt of the courtesy letter/notice of
violation. A complaint of a second or subsequent violation subject to this
subchapter at the same property shall reduce the notice period established
herein to seven days. Thereafter, the administrative citation may immediately
be issued by the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (E)   Immediate abatement required in certain cases. Ordinance violations
involving subjects such as, but not limited to, bonfires, campfires, dead
animals, undressed hides, fireworks, depositing filth, spoiled foods, or
similar items which are determined by the Code Enforcement Officer to be an
immediate threat to public health and safety shall be abated immediately,
unless it is otherwise dictated by the Mayor.
   (F)   Issuance of summons and complaint for violation. If the landowner
fails to abate the nuisance or request a review from the Public Works
Commissioner within the given time, Code Enforcement may issue administrative
citations in accordance with §
10.28, above. The city also may issue a complaint and summons to the landowner
ordering the landowner to appear in court to answer said violation in
accordance with §
10.99 of this code. Each violation may be considered a Class II misdemeanor for
each day of violation until the nuisance is abated.
(Ord. 36A, passed 4-3-2014; Ord. 2024-05, passed 4-18-2024)
§ 10.32 LANDOWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY COSTS.
   Any related expenses, receipts, and administrative, legal, and/or
investigative fees shall be billed to the landowner. The Code Enforcement
Coordinator that conducted the authority to employ a contractor to assist with
said abatement. In the event the landowner fails to pay said bill within 30
days, the City Finance Officer shall add those costs to the sewer bill owed by
the property owner. In addition, the Finance Officer may file a special
assessment on the property with the County Auditor’s Office.
(Ord. 36A, passed 4-3-2014)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Municipalities are authorized to provide for the punishment of each
violation of an ordinance, resolution, or regulation with a fine not to exceed
$500 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and
imprisonment. In issuing citations and fines for various offenses, the city
adopts the fourth judicial circuit court fine and bond schedule for use by
magistrate courts. The Board of Commissioners may set fines for offenses not
included on the fourth judicial circuit court fine schedule by resolution.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 7-20-2023)
Cross-reference:
Administrative penalties, see §§
10.28 and
10.30
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 22-6-2(2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   ELECTIONS
      
33.   FINANCES
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Forms of government
   
30.02   Classes of municipalities; change of classification
   
30.03   Vacancies
Organization; Board of Commissioners Form
   
30.15   Composition
   
30.16   Qualifications and terms of office
   
30.17   President
   
30.18   Vacancies
   
30.19   Meetings
   
30.20   Quorum; voting
   
30.21   General oversight
   
30.22   Three-Board of Commissioners city
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
30.35   Style of ordinances; subject
   
30.36   Readings, passage, and publication
   
30.37   Effective date of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.38   Compilation of ordinances
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-2-1 through 9-2-3
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-2-1 and 9-2-2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 FORMS OF GOVERNMENT.
   Each municipality shall be governed by a Mayor and Board of Commissioners. A
City Administrator may serve with any of the forms of government.
(Prior Code, § 30.001)
§ 30.02 CLASSES OF MUNICIPALITIES; CHANGE OF CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   There are three classes of municipal corporations:
      (1)   First class, with a population of 5,000 or over;
      (2)   Second class, with a population between 500 and 5,000; and
      (3)   Third class, with a population of less than 500.
   (B)   (1)   The municipality may change its classification if the territory
of the municipality has changed substantially since the last preceding census.
      (2)   The governing body by resolution may authorize and direct its Clerk
to determine the population by filing in his or her office a certificate
showing the whole number of persons who voted at the last preceding annual
municipal election, which number, multiplied by three, shall constitute the
population for the purpose of classification until the next federal census
shall have been completed.
(Prior Code, § 30.002)
§ 30.03 VACANCIES.
   When a vacancy exists in a municipal governing body, the remaining members
shall appoint a replacement to serve until the next annual municipal election.
There shall not be a special election held to fill a vacancy before the date of
the annual municipal election.
(Prior Code, § 30.003)
ORGANIZATION; BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FORM
§ 30.15 COMPOSITION.
   Under the Board of Commissioners form, where a City Administrator is not
employed, the Board of Commissioners shall consist of the Mayor and two or four
Commissioners elected at large.
(Prior Code, § 30.055)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-9-1
§ 30.16 QUALIFICATIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Qualifications. A person shall be eligible to nomination or election
as a member of the Board of Commissioners if he or she shall be a citizen of
the United States and a resident and voter of the municipality.
   (B)   Terms of office.
      (1)   The term of office of the members of the Board of Commissioners
including the Mayor, shall be for a term of three years as determined by this
chapter.
      (2)   At the annual election preceding the expiration to the term of
office of the Mayor or any Commissioner, a successor shall be elected for a
term of three years as determined by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 30.056)
(Ord. 1.10.01-T, passed 3-24-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-9-2
§ 30.17 PRESIDENT.
   The Mayor shall be President of the Board of Commissioners and shall have a
vote upon all questions but shall not have the right of veto.
(Prior Code, § 30.059)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-9-7
§ 30.18 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Resignation and vacancies.
      (1)   If the Mayor or a Commissioner resigns, the resignation shall be
submitted in writing to the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   If the Mayor or a Commissioner moves his or her permanent residence
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, the office is immediately
vacated.
      (3)   If there is a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the vacancy shall be
filled by appointment pursuant to SDCL § 9-9-8 until the position is filled by
election at the next annual municipal election or by special election as
provided in SDCL § 9-13-14.2. A vacancy on the Board of Commissioners shall be
filled as provided in SDCL §§ 9-13-14.1 or 9-13-14.2.
(Prior Code, § 30.060)
   (B)   Procedure to fill vacancies. In case of a vacancy in the office of
Mayor, the Board of Commissioners shall appoint by a majority vote of all the
members thereof one of its number as acting Mayor, who shall be invested with
all the powers and shall perform all the duties of the Mayor, until the
election of a Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 30.061)
   (C)   Acting Mayor during vacancy in office. In case the Mayor is unable to
perform the duties of his or her office by reason of absence or sickness, the
Board of Commissioners shall appoint by a majority vote of all members thereof
one of its members to act in his or her stead, whose official designation shall
be acting President of the Board of Commissioners. The Commissioner so
appointed shall be invested with all the powers and shall perform all the
duties of the Mayor during such absence or sickness.
(Prior Code, § 30.062)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-9-6 and 9-9-8
§ 30.19 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commissioners shall meet on the first and third week of each month
in regular session at such time as shall be fixed by the Board of Commissioners
at the City Hall or other designated place, to consider, take under advisement,
and act upon such business as may come before it.
   (B)   A special meeting may be called by the Mayor or by any two
Commissioners at any time to only consider the matter mentioned in the call for
the meeting. A notice of a special meeting shall be given pursuant to SDCL § 1-
25-1.1 and shall be provided to each Commissioner.
   (C)   Each meeting of the Board of Commissioners is open to the public and
the Board of Commissioners shall keep a journal of its proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 30.063)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-9-11, 9-9-12, and 9-9-13
§ 30.20 QUORUM; VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum.
      (1)   A majority of the Board of Commissioners constitutes a quorum to do
business. If a seat on the Board of Commissioners is vacant due to removal,
resignation, death, or by operation of law, the quorum consists of the majority
of the remaining Commissioners who are qualified to serve by election or
appointment pursuant to SDCL Chapter 9-13. The Board of Commissioners may
compel the attendance of any absentee under penalties as prescribed by
ordinance.
      (2)   No action of the Board of Commissioners is effective unless upon a
vote of a majority of the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Recording of votes; entry in journal.
      (1)   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of each ordinance
and for any proposal to expend or appropriate money and in any other case at
the request of any Commissioner.
      (2)   Each vote shall be entered on the journal of the Board of
Commissioner’s proceedings.
   (C)   Majority vote required. The concurrence of a majority of all the
members of the Board of Commissioners shall be necessary to the passage of any
such ordinance or proposal.
   (D)   A two-thirds vote of the Board of Commissioners is required to sell
any municipal real property.
(Prior Code, § 30.064)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-9-9, 9-9-14, and 9-9-16
§ 30.21 GENERAL OVERSIGHT.
   The Board of Commissioners controls all departments of the city and may make
and enforce rules and regulations for the organization, management, and
operation of the departments of the city and any agency that may be created for
the administration of the Board of Commissioners’ affairs.
(Prior Code, § 30.065)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-9-9
§ 30.22 THREE-BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS CITY.
   The Mayor and Commissioners shall have the following responsibilities.
   (A)   Mayor’s responsibilities.
      (1)   The Mayor may exercise all the powers and perform all the duties
provided by the laws of this state or the ordinances of the municipality not in
conflict with the laws of the state.
      (2)   The Mayor is the chief executive officer of the municipality,
presides at all meetings of the Board of Commissioners, and has general
supervision over all departments and officers.
      (3)   In the absence or inability of a Commissioner, the Mayor shall
temporarily take charge of the department of that Commissioner.
      (4)   The Mayor shall enforce all the laws of the municipality and
require that the conditions of the grant of any franchise or privilege are
faithfully complied with and performed.
      (5)   The Mayor shall grant all licenses or permits, except as are
required by ordinance to be granted by the Board of Commissioners or by some
other department or officer.
      (6)   She or he shall have under her or his special charge the
supervision of the Police and Fire Departments, the Public Health Department,
and all matters relating to the public welfare of the municipality.
      (7)   The Mayor shall annually and from time to time give the Board of
Commissioners information relative to the affairs of the municipality and shall
recommend for the Board of Commissioners’ consideration any measure the Mayor
deems expedient.
   (B)   Commissioner’s responsibilities. All matters not designated to the
Mayor shall be assigned or apportioned as equally as may be between the
Commissioners by resolution of the Board of Commissioners adopted by a majority
vote at the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners in the month following
the election each year.
(Prior Code, § 30.066)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-9-20, 9-9-26, and 9-9-27
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 30.35 STYLE OF ORDINANCES; SUBJECT.
   (A)   Ordinances must be in the following style:
      (1)   An ordinance (insert title);
      (2)   Be it ordained by the City of Summerset. The substance of the
ordinance follows.
   (B)   Ordinances can only embrace one subject which must be expressed in its
title.
(Prior Code, § 30.095)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-5 and 9-19-6
§ 30.36 READINGS, PASSAGE, AND PUBLICATION.
   (A)   All ordinances shall be read twice by title with at least five days
between each reading. The ordinances, if passed, shall be signed by the Mayor
or acting Mayor or President of the Board of Commissioners, and filed with the
Finance Officer.
   (B)   (1)   After being signed and filed, the ordinances must be published
at least once in the official newspaper. The only exception to this is that an
ordinance incorporating or adopting comprehensive regulations or a code
promulgated, approved, and published by a recognized and established national
organization prescribing building, electrical, plumbing, safety, fire, health,
or milk regulations need not be published in newspaper. All that is required is
that the Finance Officer publish the fact of adoption once a week for two
successive weeks in the official newspaper.
      (2)   If any amendment presented and approved by the governing body at
the second reading of an ordinance substantially alters the substance of the
ordinance from the first reading, the proposed ordinance as amended may not be
considered for final adoption until at least five days after a duly noticed
public meeting of the governing body pursuant to SDCL Chapter 1-25.
      (3)   The vote on the second reading of all ordinances must be recorded
and published.
   (C)   Amendments to a planning or zoning ordinance may be published without
republishing the full ordinance if the section or subsection of the ordinance
containing the change is published in its entirety.
   (D)   Resolutions differ from ordinances in that any resolution may be
passed after only one reading. The resolution must be recorded at length either
separately or in the minutes of the meeting. The votes for and against the
resolution must also be published.
(Prior Code, § 30.096)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-7, 9-19-7.1, 9-19-8, 9-19-9, and 11-4-8
§ 30.37 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Unless an ordinance or resolution is drawn to take effect immediately upon
passage, all ordinances and resolutions become effective on the twentieth day
after passage and publication, unless suspended by operation of a referendum.
(Prior Code, § 30.097)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
§ 30.38 COMPILATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Municipalities can compile the ordinances of the municipality in book
form, provided that while compiling the ordinances they are not revised or
amended. The Finance Officer shall furnish a free copy of the newly compiled
book to the Circuit Clerk of Court and the County Law Library of each county in
which the municipality is situated.
   (B)   Every municipality also has the power to revise its ordinances once
every five years.
   (C)   Revised ordinances must also be furnished to the Circuit Clerk of
Court and County Law Library.
(Prior Code, § 30.098)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-15, 9-19-16, and 9-19-17
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Grounds for removal
   
31.002   Vacancies in office
Municipal Officers
   
31.015   Appointment
   
31.016   Warrant or certificate of appointment
   
31.017   Appointed Financial Official
   
31.018   Finance Officer
   
31.019   Municipal Attorney
   
31.020   Municipal Engineer
   
31.021   Additional duties
   
31.022   Compatible and incompatible offices
   
31.023   Salaries and fringe benefits
Police Powers
   
31.035   General provisions
Planning and Zoning Board
   
31.050   Creation of Planning Commission
   
31.051   Membership and terms
   
31.052   Organization
   
31.053   Preparation of Comprehensive Plan
   
31.054   Zoning regulations
   
31.054   Subdivisions and plats regulations
   
31.056   Powers and duties
Urban Forestry Board
   
31.070   Purpose
   
31.071   Definitions
   
31.072   Administrative procedures
   
31.073   Trees
   
31.074   Storage of wood
   
31.075   Interference with Parks Department
   
31.076   Appeals
Parks and Recreation
   
31.080   City Parks and Recreation Board established
   
31.081   Definitions
   
31.082   City Parks and Recreation Board member appointment
   
31.083   Chairperson. vice chairperson, secretary
   
31.084   Meetings
   
31.085   Power and duties
   
31.086   Park closure
   
31.087   Rules
   
31.088   Penalty
   
31.089   Appeal process
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 GROUNDS FOR REMOVAL.
   Any officer may be charged, tried, and removed from office for misconduct,
malfeasance, nonfeasance, crimes in office, drunkenness, gross incompetency,
corruption, theft, oppression, or gross partiality.
(Prior Code, § 31.15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 3-17-6
§ 31.002 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   The removal of any municipal officer from the ward or municipality for which
the officer was elected or appointed, or the officer’s failure, within ten days
after the first meeting of the month following the election or appointment, to
qualify and begin the duties of office, causes a vacancy in the office.
(Prior Code, § 31.16)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-10
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS
§ 31.015 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The governing board of municipalities shall appoint such officers as
needed and provided for by ordinance.
   (B)   All appointive officers of a municipality governed by a Mayor and
Board of Commissioners shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
Board of Commissioners, and in other municipalities they shall be appointed by
a majority vote of the members elected to the governing body, except as
provided in the City Manager Law and subject to the provisions of the civil
service applying to employees, police officers, and firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-3
§ 31.016 WARRANT OR CERTIFICATE OF APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   All appointed officers shall be commissioned by warrant, under the
corporate seal, signed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor shall issue a certificate of appointment under the seal of
the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-4
§ 31.017 APPOINTED FINANCIAL OFFICIAL.
   The appointed Financial Official shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Supervising the accounting system for all departments and offices of
the municipality in accordance with the recommendations of the Department of
Legislative Audit, except that for those municipalities administered under the
City Administrator form of government, the supervision will be by the City
Administrator;
   (B)   Drawing and countersigning all warrants, bonds, and other evidences of
indebtedness, showing the amount paid, to whom it was paid and for what
purpose;
   (C)   Creating estimates on work to be performed and countersigning all
contracts;
   (D)   Keeping a list of all certificates issued for work or any other
purpose. Before the levy by the governing body of any special tax, the Finance
Officer shall, unless that duty is performed by the engineer, report to the
governing body a schedule of all lots that are subject to the proposed special
tax or assessment and the amount of the special tax or assessment. The schedule
shall be verified by the Finance Officer’s affidavit;
   (E)   Destroying any record which the Records Destruction Board declares to
have no further administrative, legal fiscal, research, or historical value;
   (F)   Safekeeping the corporate seal of the municipality, all papers and
records, and the mandatory recording of the proceedings of the governing body;
and
   (G)   Attending meetings of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-14-17, 9-14-18, 9-14-19, and 9-14-20
§ 31.018 FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Finance Officer shall receive all money belonging to the
municipality and shall keep accurate records of the money.
   (B)   The Finance Officer shall perform all other duties as set out in SDCL
§§ 9-22-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 31.04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-22-2
§ 31.019 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   When required by the governing body or any officer of the municipality, the
Municipal Attorney shall:
   (A)   Furnish an opinion upon any matter relating to the affairs of the
municipality or the official duties of such officer;
   (B)   Conduct the prosecution of all actions or proceedings arising out of
the violation of any ordinance; and
   (C)   Perform such other professional services incident to his or her office
as may be required by ordinance or directed by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 31.05)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-22
§ 31.020 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.
   (A) The Municipal Engineer shall be a practical engineer and surveyor. He or
she shall keep his or her office somewhere in the municipality.
   (B)   All surveys, profiles, plans, or estimates are city property and shall
be carefully preserved in the office of the Municipal Engineer and shall be
open to public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 31.06)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-24
§ 31.021 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   The governing body is authorized to prescribe by ordinance additional duties
not inconsistent with the laws of the state to any municipal officer.
(Prior Code, § 31.07)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-14-27
§ 31.022 COMPATIBLE AND INCOMPATIBLE OFFICES.
   (A)   Compatible offices.
      (1)   No Mayor, Alderman, or Commissioner is disqualified from holding
such office in any municipality as a result of holding any liquor license or
being the spouse of a person holding any liquor license.
      (2)   Any Mayor, Alderman, Commissioner may serve in a volunteer,
unsalaried municipal position.
   (B)   Incompatible offices.
      (1)   No Mayor, Alderman, Commissioner shall hold any other office under
the municipality while an incumbent of any such office.
      (2)   No Clerk may hold the office of Finance Officer in the municipality
while an incumbent of such office.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
Statutory reference:
Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-14-16 and 9-14-16.1
§ 31.023 SALARIES AND FRINGE BENEFITS.
   (A)   The governing body shall fix and determine by ordinance or resolution
the amount of salaries and compensation of all municipal officers and the times
at which the same shall be paid.
   (B)   The municipality is authorized to provide the following:
      (1)   Appropriation of funds to compensate the members of boards and
commissions;
      (2)   Group life, sickness, and accident, or hospitalization and surgical
insurance, with the responsibility for administration of these programs with
the governing body, either individually or jointly with other governing bodies;
      (3)   Inclusion in the municipal insurance program of retired employees
and officers and their spouses, provided the officer or employee served for at
least 15 years and participated in municipal insurance program at least five
years immediately preceding retirement; and
      (4)   Appropriation of necessary funds for the cost of all or any portion
of the insurance provided by SDCL § 9-14-30 and the deduction from salaries or
wages, the employee’s or officer’s share of the cost of such an insurance
program.
(Prior Code, § 31.09)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-12-3.1, 9-14-28, 9-14-33, 9-14-34, and 9-
14-35
POLICE POWERS
§ 31.035 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor having a Board of Commissioners and each member of the Board
of Commissioners shall possess, within the jurisdiction of the municipality,
all the powers conferred by law upon Sheriffs to suppress disorder and keep the
peace pursuant to SDCL § 9-29-16.
   (B)   All police officers of this municipality possess the powers of
constables and are permitted to execute and serve warrants; pursue and arrest
any person fleeing from justice in any part of the state; and arrest and detain
any person guilty of any breach of the peace or any violation of the laws of
the state or ordinance of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-19
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
§ 31.050 CREATION OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created a City Planning Commission, which shall be referred
to as the Planning and Zoning Board.
(Ord. #4, passed 6-7-2007)
§ 31.051 MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS.
   The Planning and Zoning Board created under the terms of this subchapter
shall consist of not less than five members appointed by the Mayor, and subject
to approval by the Board of Commissioners. The term each member shall serve
shall be for three years, except when the Planning and Zoning Board is first
appointed at which time two members shall be appointed for one year, two
members for two years, and one or more members for three years. Thereafter,
appointments of each member shall be for terms of three years so that there
will be an overlapping of tenure. Alternate members of the Planning and Zoning
Board may be appointed by the Mayor and subject to approval by the Board of
Commissioners as needed and necessary.
(Ord. #4, passed 6-7-2007)
§ 31.052 ORGANIZATION.
   The Planning and Zoning Board shall elect a Chairperson from among its
members for a term of one year (with eligibility for re-election) and shall
also elect a Vice-Chairperson and Secretary in a manner prescribed by the rules
of the members. The Planning and Zoning Board shall hold meetings as necessary
to conduct any business as presented for the Board of Commissioner’s review and
recommendation. The Planning and Zoning Board shall adopt rules for transaction
of its business and keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings,
and determinations which shall be a public record. The Planning and Zoning
Board may contract with planners, engineers, architects, and other consultants
for such services as it may require, provided, however, that such appointments
and contracts shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 4.01A, passed 6-16-2011)
§ 31.053 PREPARATION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   For the purpose of making a Comprehensive Plan for the development of
the town, the Planning and Zoning Board shall make or cause to be made careful
and comprehensive studies of present conditions and future growth of the city.
The Comprehensive Plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated and harmonious development of the city.
   (B)   After such Comprehensive Plan has been adopted according to law, no
substantial amendment or modification thereof shall be made without such
proposed change first being referred to the Planning and Zoning Board for its
recommendations.
(Ord. #4, passed 6-7-2007)
§ 31.054 ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be a duty of the Planning and Zoning Board to recommend the
boundaries of zoning districts and appropriate regulations to be enforced
therein, in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan. All applications and
proposals for changes in or amendments to the zoning regulations shall first be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board for its recommendations.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may provide for the Planning and Zoning
Board to act as a Board of Adjustment to make special exceptions or grant
variances to the terms of the zoning regulations.
(Ord. #4, passed 6-7-2007)
§ 31.055 SUBDIVISION AND PLATS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All plans, plats, or re-plats of subdivisions or re-subdivision of
land within the jurisdiction of this subchapter shall first be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Board for its recommendation before approval by the Board
of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall prepare and recommend to the Board
of Commissioners regulations governing the subdivision of land within its
jurisdiction. No amendments or changes thereto shall be made without such
proposed changes first being referred to the Planning and Zoning Board for its
recommendation.
(Ord. #4, passed 6-7-2007)
§ 31.056 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning and Zoning Board, its members, and its employees shall have all
powers as may be necessary to enable it to fulfill and perform its functions
and to carry out all the purposes and powers provided in SDCL Ch. 11-4 and 11-
6, and acts amendatory thereof.
(Ord. #4, passed 6-7-2007)
URBAN FORESTRY BOARD
§ 31.070 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city finds and determines that in order to protect existing
neighborhoods, promote good design in new areas, and provide for sensitive and
compatible infill development in existing commercial areas, the Urban Forestry
Board shall be created to review and make recommendations on city tree plans
developed, created, or approved by the Parks Department.
   (B)   The purpose and intent for regulating the planting, removal, and
maintenance of trees, bushes, shrubs, and other woody vegetation on public and
private property is threefold:
      (1)   To protect and increase property rights and values;
      (2)   To enhance and conserve the city’s aesthetic environment and
physical characteristics of the land; and
      (3)   To generally protect and enhance the quality of life and general
welfare of the city.
(Ord. 38, passed 1-7-2016)
§ 31.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in any
public park or in area owned by the city.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization.
   PEST. Any organism, insect, rodent, fungus, virus, bacteria, or other agent
that causes any damage, abnormal growth, or mortality of any tree, shrub, bush,
or woody vegetation.
   PROPERTY LINE. The outer edge of a street or highway right-of-way and does
not pertain to the traveled surface itself.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
   URBAN FORESTER. A consultant of the Parks Department of the city.
(Ord. 38, passed 1-7-2016)
§ 31.072 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Board created. There is created and established an Urban Forestry
Board which shall consist of five members, citizens and residents of this city,
who shall be appointed by the Parks Director. The Urban Forester shall serve as
an ex officio member in an advisory capacity of the Urban Forestry Board.
   (B)   Members, terms, and vacancies. The terms of the five members of the
Urban Forestry Board to be appointed by the Parks Director shall be three
years, except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board
shall be for only one year and the term of one member of the first Board shall
be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of
any member, a successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the
term. The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall after public hearing have
authority to remove any member of the Urban Forestry Board for cause, which
cause shall be stated in writing and made a part of the record of the hearing.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Officers, quorum, record keeping. The Board shall choose its own
officers and shall keep a journal of its proceedings. Three members shall
constitute a quorum.
   (E)   Duties.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to review and make
recommendations on city tree plans developed by the city’s Planning Department
and/or the Parks Department.
      (2)   The Board, when requested by the Board of Commissioners or the
city’s Parks Department shall consider, investigate, and make findings,
reports, and recommendations upon any special matter or question coming within
the scope of its work.
(Ord. 38, passed 1-7-2016)
§ 31.073 TREES.
   (A)   Street trees.
      (1)   No street trees shall be planted unless and until the Urban
Forester shall have first approved the kind, size, variety, and location
thereof, and granted a permit therefor. This permit is in addition to any
permit required by Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances. Trees proposed
within ten feet of any water, sanitary sewer or drainage system component shall
be subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works. The permit shall be
issued without charge.
      (2)   A street tree list and brochure shall be developed by the Urban
Forester and approved by the Urban Forestry Board.
      (3)   Maintenance of street trees shall be the responsibility of the
owner of the abutting property.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to top any street tree or other tree
on public property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than six inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a
degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be topped only
with the approval of the Urban Forestry Board.
      (5)   All stumps of street and park trees shall be cut below the surface
of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface
of the ground.
   (B)   Trees on public property.
      (1)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within the public right-of-way and on public grounds,
as it may determine.
      (2)   The city may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or
part thereof which is in unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, waterlines, or other
public improvements, or is infested with any pest. This section shall not
prohibit the planting of street trees by owners of adjacent property provided
that the selection and location of the tree is made in accordance with division
(A) above.
   (C)   Trees on private property.
      (1)   The city shall have the right to inspect and cause the removal of
any tree, or any part thereof, on private property within the city if the tree
or any part thereof:
         (a)   Is dead, diseased, or has obvious visible defects; and
         (b)   Either:
            1.   Constitutes a hazard to life or property; or
            2.   Harbors pests which constitute a threat to other trees within
the city.
      (2)   The city shall notify the owner(s) of such trees, in writing, to
remove or trim the trees within such reasonable time as shall be determined by
the Urban Forester. All tree work shall be arranged and completed at the
owner’s expense. In the event of failure of owners to comply with the
provisions, the city shall have the authority to remove the trees and charge
the cost of removal to the owners or to assess the costs thereof against the
property.
      (3)   Any person claiming an interest in any tree ordered to be removed
under division (B)(2) above may appeal the order to the Urban Forestry Board
within seven days of the date of the order.
      (4)   Obvious visible defects include, but are not limited to, dead limbs
greater than six inches in diameter, an unseasonable lack of leaves, visible
decay, lightning damage, and perilously leaning trunks.
      (5)   This provision shall not be construed to relieve from liability any
party owning land on which a hazardous tree or any part thereof is located for
damages to persons or property caused by the hazardous tree. This provision
shall not be construed as imposing upon the city any liability or
responsibility resulting from damage caused by any tree located on private
property, nor shall the city or its employees be held as assuming any liability
or responsibility by reason of an authorized inspection under this section.
   (D)   Requirement for removal of mountain pine beetle-infested trees. Trees
infested with mountain pine beetle are declared a public nuisance. If a
property contains trees infested with mountain pine beetle, the city shall
notify the owner in writing. Infested trees must be removed by the property
owner within 60 days after notification. Upon written request, the Director of
Parks or her or his designee may provide an extension not to exceed an
additional 30 days. Infested trees identified between June 1 and September 1 of
any year shall be removed as soon as possible. The city’s Urban Forester shall
have discretion to impose a time frame for removal that is less than 60 days
for infested trees that are discovered between these dates. If the tree(s) are
not removed within the timeframe allowed, the tress may be abated or otherwise
removed pursuant to state law and/or
Chapter 92. The city may defray the cost of abating or removing this nuisance
by taxing the cost thereof by special assessment against the real property on
which the nuisance occurred.
   (E)   Trimming of trees overhanging streets, sidewalks, and alleys. All
trees overhanging any city sidewalk shall be kept trimmed so that the space
between the sidewalk and the lowest branch overhanging the sidewalk is not less
than eight feet. All trees overhanging any street or alley in the city shall be
kept trimmed so that the space between the street or alley and the lowest
branch overhanging said street or alley is not less than 12 feet.
(Ord. 38, passed 1-7-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.074 STORAGE OF WOOD.
   No person shall store or permit the accumulation of any elm wood in the
city. No person shall store any tree or part thereof declared to harbor or
contain any pest infestation as defined in §
31.071, unless the wood is debarked prior to storage.
(Ord. 38, passed 1-7-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.075 INTERFERENCE WITH PARKS DEPARTMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the Parks
Department or any of its agents engaged in the planting, cultivating, mulching,
pruning, spraying, inspecting, or removing of any street trees, park trees, or
trees on private grounds, as authorized in this subchapter.
(Ord. 38, passed 1-7-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.076 APPEALS.
   Any decision of the Urban Forestry Board may be appealed to the Board of
Commissioners within seven days of the decision.
(Ord. 38, passed 1-7-2016)
PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 31.080 CITY PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created for the City of Summerset a City Parks and
Recreation Board consisting of five members and one alternate from the City of
Summerset located within Meade County, South Dakota. The Board of Commissioners
may by resolution increase the size of the City Parks and Recreation Board to
seven members if the Board of Commissioners determines that a seven-member
board is appropriate.
(Ord. passed 7-31-2019; Ord. 2022-11, passed 12-19-2022; Ord. 2025-03, passed
5-15-2025)
§ 31.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, motor truck, motorcycle, house trailer,
trailer, moped, ATV, UTV and any vehicle propelled by the power other than
muscular.
   PARK TREES. Any trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in any
public park or in any area owned by the city, subject to the sight distance
requirements herein after set forth.
   PEST. Any organism, insect, rodent, fungus, virus, bacteria, or other agent
that causes damage, abnormal growth, or mortality of any shrub, bush or other
woody vegetation.
   PROPERTY LINE. The property as platted.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire area between property boundaries which is
owned by a government, dedicated to public use, or designated as and publicly
maintained, in whole or in part, for such use. RIGHT-OF-WAY includes without
limitation the public street, shoulder, gutter, curb, sidewalk, sidewalk area,
parking or parking strip, and any other public way.
   TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than six inches in
diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Ord. passed 7-31-2019)
§ 31.082 CITY PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD MEMBER APPOINTMENT.
    All members of the Summerset Parks and Recreation Board shall be volunteers
appointed by the City of Summerset Board of Commissioners upon the submission
of applications in proper form approved by the Board of Commissioners. The
terms of the members shall be three years. If a member resigns or is removed
prior to the end of a term, the Board of Commissioners may appoint a
replacement member to fulfill the remainder of that term. Terms shall begin on
July 1 and terminate three years later on June 30. A person may be reappointed
to multiple terms. The City Parks and Recreation Board members shall serve
without compensation. In addition to the members of the City Parks and
Recreation Board, one member of the Board of Commissioners will be appointed by
the Board of Commissioners as liaison to the City Parks and Recreation Board.
The appointed Commissioner shall have the right to participate in all
discussions but shall only have the right to vote on actions to break a tie.
(Ord. passed 7-31-2019; Ord. 2022-11, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 31.083 CHAIRPERSON, VICE CHAIRPERSON, SECRETARY.
   (A)   The City Parks and Recreation Board shall elect from its number a
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson to serve for a term of two years or until a
successor is elected and qualified, except and unless the said officer so
elected is removed from the City Parks and Recreation Board before the end of
his or her term. The City Park Board shall also designate a Secretary. The Vice
Chairperson shall act in the absence or disability of the Chairperson. In the
event of death, retirement or removal of an officer from the City Parks and
Recreation Board, a successor shall be elected, promptly.
   (B)   The Secretary of the City Parks and Recreation Board shall keep a
record of its proceedings to be made available to any member of the Board of
Commissioners for the City of Summerset.
   (C)   If the City Parks and Recreation Board believes that the budget
amounts from the city will be insufficient to meet what it deems is necessary
for the duties of the Park Board, it shall be the Chairperson or designee from
the Parks and Recreation Board's responsibility to convey the need for
supplementation of the budget to the Board of Commissioners. All expenditures
for Parks and Recreation Projects remain in the discretion of the Summerset
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 7-31-2019; Ord. 2022-11, passed 12-19-2022; Ord. 2024-11, passed
9-19-2024)
§ 31.084 MEETINGS.
   The City Parks and Recreation Board shall determine the time of its regular
meetings and the number, and the City Parks and Recreation Board may hold as
many special meetings as it deems proper. At least one-half of the number of
Board seats of the City Parks and Recreation Board shall constitute quorum for
the transaction of City Parks and Recreation business. An affirmative vote of
at least one half of the number of Board positions shall be necessary to
authorize any action of the City Parks and Recreation Board. The appointed
Board of Commissioners liaison shall not be counted in determining whether a
quorum exists. All officers of the City Parks and Recreation Board shall vote
on all matters along with other members of the City Parks and Recreation Board.
The City Parks and Recreation Board may set the procedures for its meeting and
allow park volunteers and others as it sees fit to participate in the meetings.
The City Parks and Recreation office shall be located in the Summerset
Municipal Building.
(Ord. passed 7-31-2019)
§ 31.085 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Parks and Recreation Board shall have all the combined powers and
duties that the City Parks and Recreation Board would have separately as
provided by the statutes of the State of South Dakota and acts amendatory
thereto. The City Parks and Recreation Board shall maintain a five-year plan
for possible park projects and improvements to guide the city in development
and maintenance of the park properties. The City Parks and Recreation Board may
work with nonprofits and other organizations to aid in the improvement to the
parks but when doing so will ensure the nonprofit or other entities are not
acting on behalf of the city.
   (A)   The City Parks and Recreation Board shall be under the control and
supervision of the Summerset Board of Commissioners and any city funds to be
expended for the management or supervision and improvement of the city parks
shall be spent only upon the recommendation of the City Parks and Recreation
Board as set forth in resolution or minutes of the City Parks and Recreation
Board and approval of the Summerset Board of Commissioners. All vouchers
submitted for expenditures by the City Parks and Recreation Board at regular or
special meetings and then marked approved by the Secretary of the City Parks
and Recreation Board and then submitted to the Board of Commissioners of the
City of Summerset for its approval or rejection. The City Parks and Recreation
Board shall provide funds for its operation and may seek funds through
solicitation of donations, by seeking grants, by holding fundraising events,
and by other means approved by the City Parks and Recreation Board.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chairperson of the City Parks and
Recreation Board to preside at all meetings of the City Parks and Recreation
Board. It shall be the duty of the City Parks and Recreation Board to report to
the City of Summerset Board of Commissioners of all actions taken by the City
Park Board. Each year, the City Parks and Recreation Board shall present to the
City of Summerset Board of Commissioners a budget for the recommended and
estimated expenditures for the operation and improvement of the city parks
system for the following calendar year.
   (C)   The City of Summerset Board of Commissioners may, from time to time,
prescribe any rules, regulations, and responsibilities of the said City Parks
and Recreation Board either by amendment to the title or by resolution. The
City Parks and Recreation Board will not enter into any agreement with another
municipal organization without the approval of the City of Summerset Board of
Commissioners. All existing bylaws and policies and procedures of the City
Parks and Recreation Board shall remain in effect until the appointed City of
Summerset Board of Commissioners direct otherwise.
(Ord. passed 7-31-2019)
§ 31.086 PARK CLOSURE.
   (A)   The City of Summerset Board of Commissioners at its discretion may,
from time to time, close any or all of the city parks in the City of Summerset
to any use or activity whatsoever and prohibit any persons except those
authorized by the City of Summerset Board of Commissioners to enter the city
parks area. In the event that the City of Summerset Board of Commissioners
desires to close any part of the city parks area, it shall pass a resolution
specifying the city parks area as being closed and the times it shall be
closed.
   (B)   No person shall enter any city parks area that has been closed by the
City of Summerset Board of Commissioners as authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-31-2019)
§ 31.087 RULES.
   (A)   The city parks shall be open to the public from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m. each day except for extension granted for special events. Any exceptions
for special events must be approved by the Park Board and the Summerset Board
of Commissioners. Special events include, but are not limited to, weddings,
fourth of July events, anniversary parties, and family reunions.
   (B)   Any pet within the city parks shall be on a leash no longer than 10
feet. Any person or persons bringing a pet within any city parks shall clean up
after the pet. No horses or livestock shall be allowed within any city parks
except as authorized by the Board of Commissioners for special events.
   (C)   No fireworks shall be allowed within any city parks except as
authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Any wildlife and/or vegetation, living or dead, located within any
city parks shall not be disturbed by any person or any person's pet. All
wildlife and vegetation shall be left where found unless removal or alteration
has been approved by the City Parks and Recreation Board by established rules
or resolution.
   (E)   No motorized vehicles allowed in the city parks unless authorized by
the City Parks and Recreation Board and approved by the Board of Commissioners.
City maintenance vehicles are exempt in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   There will be no open fires in the city parks except the use of the
designated grills. No exceptions shall be allowed unless approved by the Board
of Commissioners.
   (G)   There will be no overnight camping in the city parks. Exception may be
granted by the Park Board with the approval by the Board of Commissioners.
   (H)   There will be no alcohol allowed in the city parks unless authorized
as a special event by the City Parks and Recreation Board, approved by the
Board of Commissioners and provided in compliance with city ordinance and state
law.
(Ord. passed 7-31-2019)
§ 31.088 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is a Class II misdemeanor
punishable by the maximum punishment set forth by the laws of the state of
South Dakota pursuant to SDCL 22-6-2. Said punishment may also include payment
of any costs and/or restitution authorized by this subchapter and/or state law.
See §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 7-31-2019)
§ 31.089 APPEAL PROCESS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision made under this subchapter shall be
entitled to have said decision reviewed by the City Parks and Recreation Board,
who rendered the decision. If after review, the person is unsatisfied, he or
she may appeal the decision to the Board of Commissioners. The process shall be
as follows:
   (A)   An aggrieved person shall first file a written request for review with
the Board of Commissioner's representative rendering the decision setting forth
the basis for which he or she believes the decision to be in error. The writing
shall also include the person's name and mailing address.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a written request for review, the Board of
Commissioner representative shall review his or her decision and mail a written
response to the aggrieved person within 20 days.
   (C)   If the aggrieved is not satisfied with the decision of the Board of
Commissioner's representative following review, he or she may file a notice of
appeal with the Finance Officer. There shall be a $25.00 fee assessed for
filing an appeal, which shall be paid to the Finance Office at the time of
filing the notice of appeal.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Finance Officer shall notify
the Board of Commissioners and a public meeting shall be held within 30 days
after the date of the appeal was filed. The Board of Commissioners shall
provide notice to the person specifying the time, date, and location of the
hearing.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners may notify the aggrieved person of its
decision following the hearing, however, the Board of Commissioners shall issue
a written decision to the person within 20 days of the hearing. The Board of
Commissioners may affirm or reverse the decision of the City Parks and
Recreation Board.
(Ord. passed 7-31-2019)
CHAPTER 32: ELECTIONS
Section
   
32.01   Ballots
   
32.02   Required notices
   
32.03   Special elections
   
32.04   Local campaign finance ordinances
§ 32.01 BALLOTS.
   (A)   Preparation of ballots. The Clerk or Finance Officer shall prepare and
furnish, at the expense of the municipality, all official ballots. The ballots
shall be white in color, of good quality of print paper, printed in black ink,
and in the English language only.
   (B)   Form of ballots. The names of the candidates for each office to be
voted for in the precinct shall be arranged without any other designation than
that of the office for which they are candidates. If more than one member of
the governing body is to be elected, the ballot shall contain instructions as
to how many candidates for the governing body are to be voted for. The Clerk or
Finance Officer shall determine, by lot, each candidate’s position on the
ballot. Each candidate may be present or represented when the position on the
ballot is being determined. A square or a circle shall appear at the left of
the name of each candidate, and no other square or circle may appear on the
ballot. No candidate’s name may be printed upon the official ballot unless the
candidate has been nominated as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-13-21
§ 32.02 REQUIRED NOTICES.
   (A)   Municipal officials shall make the following legal publications in the
official newspaper in conjunction with municipal elections:
      (1)   Two notices identifying which vacancies will occur by termination
of the terms of office of elective officers, stating the time and place where
nominating petitions may be filed. These notices are to be published once each
week for two consecutive weeks between January 25 and February 10;
      (2)   Two notices of the availability of registration officials, stating
when registration will be terminated and the effect of a failure to register.
The notice must be published at least once each week for two consecutive weeks.
The last publication to be not less than ten nor more than 15 days before the
deadline for registration; and
      (3)   Two notices of election, published once each week for two
consecutive weeks, the first publication being not less than ten days prior to
the election. A facsimile of the official ballot shall be published at least
four days prior to each election.
   (B)   If there is to be a secondary election, a notice of election shall be
published once during the week before any secondary election, which shall
include a list of all persons appearing on the ballot for the election.
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-13-6, 9-13-13, and 12-4-5.2
§ 32.03 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Special elections shall be held on certain ordinances and initiated
measures, and when creating boards and commissions, increasing the tax levy,
and/or imposing certain special mill levies in addition to the 27-ml
requirement for general purposes.
   (B)   Special elections are to be held upon the same notice, at the same
polling places, be conducted, returned, and canvassed, and the result declared
as provided for the annual municipal election. The notice of the special
election shall state any question or question to be voted upon.
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-13-14
§ 32.04 LOCAL CAMPAIGN FINANCE ORDINANCES.
   Any municipality may adopt an ordinance to meet the provisions of SDCL
Chapter 12-27 with or without any amendments applicable to municipal elections.
(Prior Code, § 32.04) (Ord. 2023-04, passed 7-6-2023)
Statutory reference:
   For candidate’s financial interest statements, see SDCL § 12-27-39
   Related provisions, SDCL § 12-1-2.1
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES
Section
Budget
   
33.01   Preparation of budget
   
33.02   Budget ordinance
   
33.03   Certification of levies
   
33.04   Supplemental and emergency appropriations
   
33.05   Disbursement of funds
Tax Levy
   
33.20   Annual levy
Bids and Contracts
   
33.35   Contracts authorized
   
33.36   Interest in contracts
   
33.37   Performance bonds
   
33.38   Bidding contracts
   
33.39   Acceptance of bid
   
33.40   Exemptions from bidding
Cross-reference:
   Storm Sewer Maintenance Fund, see §§
53.115 through
53.117
BUDGET
§ 33.01 PREPARATION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   The Finance Officer shall report to the governing body, on or before
September 1, an estimate of expenses for the ensuing year and revenue to be
raised for the current year. This estimate may contain a line item for
contingencies, provided it does not exceed 5% of the total budget.
   (B)   The annual report shall be prepared with an annual report from the
boards and commissions in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-22-23
§ 33.02 BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   No later than the first regular meeting of the governing body in September,
or within ten days thereafter, an annual appropriation ordinance for the
ensuing year must be introduced in which it shall appropriate the sums of money
necessary to meet all lawful expenses and liabilities of the municipality. The
ordinance shall specify the function and subfunction as prescribed by the
Department of Legislative Audit for which the appropriations are made and the
amount appropriated for each function and subfunction, which amount shall be
appropriated from the proper fund.
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-21-2
§ 33.03 CERTIFICATION OF LEVIES.
   Pursuant to SDCL § 10-12-7, all tax levies must be certified to the County
Auditor by the taxing district on or before October 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 34.04)
§ 33.04 SUPPLEMENTAL AND EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   Supplemental appropriation. If no provision in the appropriation is
made for the municipality to conduct the indispensable functions of government,
the governing body may approve and adopt a supplement appropriation ordinance,
provided that it sets out in detail the reason and amount for each
appropriation. The procedures to adopt the supplemental appropriation are the
same as for the annual appropriation ordinance.
   (B)   Emergency appropriation. If an event occurs that could not have been
reasonably anticipated at the time the annual appropriation was created and
adopted, the governing body may order the Mayor or President to borrow, in the
name of the municipality and with the attest of the Finance Officer, an amount
sufficient to provide for the necessary expense incurred by the emergency
event.
(Prior Code, § 34.05)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-21-15
§ 33.05 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   For payment of any services or property is allowed, the following must
occur:
   (A)   An itemized invoice must be submitted;
   (B)   A voucher verified by the appropriate municipal officer attesting that
the services have been received or that materials have been received must
accompany the itemized invoice; and
   (C)   The claim for payment of services or property must be itemized and a
memorandum of the same must be entered upon the minutes of the meeting of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 34.06)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-23-1 and 9-23-2
TAX LEVY
§ 33.20 ANNUAL LEVY.
   Pursuant to SDCL § 9-21-19, the municipality shall include the annual tax
levy in the annual appropriation.
(Prior Code, § 34.20)
BIDS AND CONTRACTS
§ 33.35 CONTRACTS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   All contracts into which the municipality enters shall be valid only
upon being authorized by a vote of the governing body at a duly assembled
meeting.
   (B)   All contracts of and conveyances by the municipality shall be executed
in the name of the municipality by the Mayor or President of the Board of
Commissioners, be countersigned by the Clerk, and have the corporate seal
attached.
(Prior Code, § 34.30)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-1-5
§ 33.36 INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   No elected or appointed official or her or his agent shall be interested in
any contract entered into by the municipality pursuant to SDCL § 6-1-1.
(Prior Code, § 34.31)
§ 33.37 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   (A)   Whenever any contract for the construction of a public improvement is
entered into, the contractor shall furnish surety in an amount not less than
the contract price. The contractor shall also guarantee that he or she will
promptly pay all persons supplying him or her with labor.
   (B)   The performance bond may be waived when the bid submitted does not
exceed $25,000.
   (C)   The contractor shall also pay all taxes which may arise under SDCL Ch.
10-46.
(Prior Code, § 34.32)
§ 33.38 BIDDING CONTRACTS.
   (A)    The municipality must advertise for bids or proposals for the
following:
      (1)   Contracts for any public improvement including the building,
altering, repairing, improving, or demolishing of any structure, building, or
other improvements of any kind to real property that involves the expenditure
of $100,000 or more; and
      (2)   Contracts for the purchase of supplies or services, other than
professional services, which involve the expenditure of $25,000 or more.
   (B)   The municipality must advertise for bids in the official newspaper at
least twice, with the first publication at least ten days before the opening of
bids or the deadline for the submission of proposals.
   (C)   The first publication shall be in the official newspaper and the
second publication may be in any legal newspaper in the state.
   (D)   The advertisement for the bid must state the time and place where the
bids will be opened or the deadline for the submission of proposals and that
the municipality has the right to reject any or all bids.
(Ord. 1.34A, passed 7-18-2014; Ord. 2022-12, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 33.39 ACCEPTANCE OF BID.
   Unless all bids are rejected, the municipality shall accept the lowest
responsible bid.
(Ord. 1.34A, passed 7-18-2014)
§ 33.40 EXEMPTIONS FROM BIDDING.
    The municipality is exempt from bidding the following types of contracts:
      (1)   Highway construction contracts entered into by the South Dakota
Department of Transportation;
      (2)   Contracts for the purchase of supplies from the United States or
its agencies;
      (3)   Any purchase of supplies or services, other than professional
services, by purchasing agencies from any active contract that has been awarded
by any government entity by competitive sealed bids or competitive sealed
proposals from any contract that was competitively solicited and awarded within
the previous 12 months;
      (4)   Equipment repair contracts;
      (5)   Procurement of electric power, water, or natural gas; chemical and
biological products;
      (6)   Supplies, services, and professional services required for certain
research projects under the control of the Board of Regents;
      (7)   Property or liability insurance or performance bonds;
      (8)   Supplies needed by the Department of Human Services or Department
of Social Services or prison industries for the manufacturing of products;
      (9)   Printing involving student activities conducted by student
organizations and paid for out of student fees at institutions under control of
the Board of Regents;
      (10)   Purchase of surplus property from another purchasing agency;
      (11)   Animals;
      (12)   Purchases by a school district of perishable food, raw materials
used in construction or manufacture of products for resale, or for
transportation of students;
      (13)   Certain state authorities;
      (14)   Seeds, fertilizers and other products used in the operation of
farms under control of the Board of Regents;
      (15)   Supplies for any utility owned or operated by a municipality if
the purchase does not exceed the limits found in SDCL § 5-18A-14;
      (16)   For political subdivisions, any contract for asbestos removal in
emergency response actions;
      (17)   Supplies or services from a contract established through a
Midwestern higher education compact group by competitive sealed bid or a
competitive sealed proposal;
      (18)   Any contract concerning the custody, management, purchase, sale
and exchange of fund investments research by the State Investment Council or
Division of Investment; or
      (19)   For political subdivisions, including municipalities, any purchase
of equipment involving the expenditure of less than $50,000. (SDCL § 5-18A-22);
      (20)   Public sale or auction;
      (21)   Water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer trunk lines or mains, sewer
collection systems, streets, and regional storm sewer detention ponds installed
at developer's expense;
      (22)   Fuel purchased by local government units. The governing board
shall contact and attempt to obtain competitive quotations from at least three
suppliers. A record of the names of the suppliers, the quotations received and
the procurement procedures used in purchasing shall be documented, noted in the
minutes, and retained on file by the governing body;
      (23)   Purchases from state contract list or below state contract price.
   (B)   A purchasing agency may make or authorize others to make an emergency
purchase without advertising if rentals are not practicable and there exists a
threat to public health, welfare, or safety or for other urgent and compelling
reasons (SDCL § 5-18A-8).
(Ord. 1.34A, passed 7-18-2014; Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-19-2022)
Statutory reference:
Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 5-18A-22, 5-18C-3, 5-18C-4, 5-18C-6, and 5-18C-
8
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL ROUTES AND POLICIES
      
51.   DRAINAGE
      
52.   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
      
53.   SANITARY SEWER SERVICE SYSTEM
      
54.   COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
CHAPTER 50: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL ROUTES AND POLICIES
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Snow removal declaration
   
50.03   Snow route restrictions designated
   
50.04   No parking on snow routes
   
50.05   Depositing debris in public right-of-way
   
50.06   Public nuisance
   
50.07   Removal by owner
   
50.08   Removal by city; cost
   
50.09   Reserved
   
50.10   Reserved
   
50.11   Certification
   
50.12   Recovery of cost of removing snow or ice in lieu of assessment against
property
   
Appendix A: Route Map
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTE. Any streets designated by a clearly marked uniform
sign and established as such by resolution.
   SECONDARY SNOW ROUTE. All other improved city streets not designated as
emergency snow routes.
   SNOW REMOVAL ALERT. Goes into effect with accumulation of four or more
inches on public streets.
   STREET. The entire width of any public roadway within the city, and it shall
not be limited to those roadways designated as a STREET, but shall include all
other names by which public roadways are designated.
(Ord. 18.2017, passed 2-16-2017; Ord. 2024-07, passed 4-18-2024; Ord. 2025-04,
passed 7-17-2025)
§ 50.02 SNOW REMOVAL DECLARATION.
   Whenever there is snow accumulation on the public street of four or more
inches, the snow removal declaration shall be in effect.
(Ord. 18.2017, passed 2-16-2017; Ord. 2025-04, passed 7-17-2025)
§ 50.03 SNOW ROUTE RESTRICTIONS DESIGNATED.
   By resolution of the City Commission, the city may designate certain city
streets as emergency and secondary snow routes to ensure said streets can be
cleared of snow for the safe and orderly flow of traffic and for the health,
safety and welfare of the general public.
(Ord. 18.2017, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 50.04 NO PARKING ON SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   No person may park or allow to remain parked any vehicle or trailer on
any street designated as emergency snow route or secondary snow route during
snowfall or prior to the time said street is cleared of snow by the city.
   (B)   Vehicles or trailers parked on snow routes in violation of this
section may be ticketed and/or towed at the owner’s expense. Violations of this
chapter shall be subject to the fine established by city resolution.
(Ord. 18.2017, passed 2-16-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 DEPOSITING DEBRIS IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It is unlawful for any person to shovel or deposit snow or ice, leaves,
material, or other substances of any kind and description from private property
onto any public street, alley, or public right-of-way. Such conduct or action
is declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 18.2017, passed 2-16-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Snow and ice permitted to gather and remain upon the sidewalks of the city
is dangerous to the safety of its citizens and others using said sidewalks and
is hereby declared a public nuisance.
(Ord. 18.02, passed 4-19-2018)
§ 50.07 REMOVAL BY OWNER.
   The owner or occupant of any building or any lot, parcel or plot of ground
fronting or abutting on any sidewalk in the snow removal as hereinafter
described, shall clear said sidewalk of snow or ice to the full width of the
sidewalk within 24 hours after the same shall have fallen or formed. The Public
Works Department of the city may waive this requirement in the event of an
extended snowstorm.
(Ord. 18.02, passed 4-19-2018)
§ 50.08 REMOVAL BY CITY; COST.
   The Finance Officer shall to cause to be published in the legal section of
the official newspaper the requirements of this chapter, which notice shall be
published for two weeks after the first meeting of the City Commission in
October of each year, which publication shall constitute notification by the
property owner of the contents of this chapter. In the event the property owner
or person that fails to remove the snow or ice as required by the notice
prescribed by this section, the Code Enforcement Officer may cause the snow or
ice to be removed so that the property is in compliance with this chapter. The
actual costs of the removal of the snow, ice and administrative fees may be
adopted by resolution. The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set
forth herein from time to time by resolution, which fees shall be assessed upon
the lots or parcel of ground fronting or abutting said sidewalk.
(Ord. 18.02, passed 4-19-2018; Ord. 2025-04, passed 7-17-2025)
§ 50.09 [RESERVED].
§ 50.10 [RESERVED].
§ 50.11 CERTIFICATION.
   If any of the said assessments are not paid to the city, the Finance Officer
shall certify any such delinquent assessments to the County Auditor on or
before October 1, and the same proceeding shall be had for the collection of
said assessments as are or may hereafter be provided by statute for the
collection of special assessments.
(Ord. 18.02, passed 4-19-2018; Ord. 2025-04, passed 7-17-2025)
§ 50.12 RECOVERY OF COST OF REMOVING SNOW OR ICE IN LIEU OF ASSESSMENT AGAINST
PROPERTY.
   In lieu of assessing the cost of removing snow or ice from the sidewalks
against the abutting property, the City Commission may authorize the City
Attorney to recover such costs in a civil action against the owner or occupant
of the property abutting such sidewalks.
(Ord. 18.02, passed 4-19-2018)
APPENDIX A: ROUTE MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9f42a6215a249f963e52e3b521c7792934d23131/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2088.png]
 
(Ord. 2024-14, passed 12-19-2024)
CHAPTER 51: DRAINAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Title and authority
   
51.002   Purpose
   
51.003   Interpretation, abrogation, severability
   
51.004   Purpose of catch heads
   
51.005   Saving clause
   
51.006   Disclaimer of liability
   
51.007   Definitions
Drainage Permits
   
51.020   Requirement
   
51.021   Drainage district or coordinated drainage area permits
   
51.022   Application
   
51.023   Notification to the Natural Resource and Conservation Service
   
51.024   Authority of the administrative official to grant drainage permits
   
51.025   Appeals of decisions
   
51.026   Hearing
   
51.027   Significance of application statewide, intercounty, or city/county
application
   
51.028   Evaluation of permit applications
   
51.029   Conditions
   
51.030   Notification of Board hearing
   
51.031   Preservation of landowners’ rights and sovereign immunity
   
51.032   Expiration of permit
   
51.033   Compliance with laws or regulations not affected by permit approval
Drainage Districts
   
51.045   Application for repair work on a drainage district
   
51.046   City action on maintenance petition
   
51.047   Application when drainage district extends into more than one city/
county
   
51.048   Abandonment of drainage district
Coordinated Drainage Areas
   
51.060   Petition
   
51.061   Hearing and notice
   
51.062   Election
   
51.063   Assessment of costs
Drainage Complaints
   
51.075   Jurisdiction on drainage disputes
   
51.076   Filing a complaint
   
51.077   Administrative Official to offer possible resolution/decision
   
51.078   Hearing
   
51.079   Appeal
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.090   Powers and duties
   
51.091   Right of entry
   
51.092   Stop order and injunction
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 TITLE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   These regulations shall be referred to as the “drainage ordinance.”
   (B)   The authority for this chapter is promulgated under SDCL Ch. 46A-10A
and 46A-11.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.002 PURPOSE.
   These regulations shall govern the drainage of water within the incorporated
area of the city and are designed to enhance and promote the physical,
economic, and environmental management of the county; protect the tax base;
prevent inordinate adverse impacts on servient properties; encourage land
utilization that will facilitate economical and adequate productivity of all
types of land; lessen government expenditure; conserve and develop natural
resources; and preserve the important benefits provided by wetlands.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.003 INTERPRETATION, ABROGATION, SEVERABILITY.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of these regulations, they shall
be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and general welfare. It is
not the intent to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where these regulations and other
regulations, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. All other
county regulations inconsistent with these regulations are hereby repealed to
the extent of this inconsistency only. If any section, division, provision, or
portion of these regulations is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court
of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of these regulations shall not be
affected thereby.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.004 PURPOSE OF CATCH HEADS.
   The catch heads appearing with the sections of this chapter are inserted
simply for convenience to serve the purpose of an index. The catch heads shall
be wholly disregarded by any person, office, court, or other tribunal in
construing the terms and provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.005 SAVING CLAUSE.
   These regulations shall in no manner affect pending actions either civil or
criminal, founded on or growing out of any regulations hereby repealed. These
regulations shall in no manner affect rights or causes of action, either civil
or criminal, that may have already accrued or grown out of any regulations
repealed.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.006 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of public and environmental protection offered by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on the best
available scientific and engineering considerations. The application of this
chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any officer or
employee thereof.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
  § 51.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. The Planning Director duly appointed by the Board
who is responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   BENEFITTED AREA. The area within a drainage district or coordinated drainage
area that receives the direct benefit from the drainage projects which have
been constructed, or are to be constructed, within the district or drainage
area.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the City of Summerset, South Dakota.
   CONTRACTOR. Any individual, firm, or corporation who performs excavation,
grading, construction, or installation work involving a drainage project.
   COORDINATED DRAINAGE AREA. A defined geographic area containing one or more
parcels of real property and more than one land owner which is established via
a public election to provide a planned network or method of natural or human-
made drainage and funded through an assessment on the benefitted properties.
   DOMINANT ESTATE. Any parcel of real property, usually at a higher elevation,
which holds a common law or statutory right to drain water onto other real
property.
   DRAIN. A means of draining either surface or subsurface water through a
system of ditches, pipes or tiles, either natural, human-made, or natural with
human-made improvements including:
      (1)   CLOSED DRAIN. A human-made drain or drainage scheme utilizing
pipes, tiles, or other materials and constructed in such a way that the flow of
water is not visible;
      (2)   LATERAL DRAIN. A drain constructed after the establishment and
construction of the original drain or drainage system and which flows into such
original drain or drainage system;
      (3)   NATURAL DRAIN. A drainage system on the surface of the ground which
operates as part of a natural watercourse; and
      (4)   SURFACE DRAIN. A human-made drain on the surface of the ground.
    DRAINAGE DISTRICT. A drainage area with multiple owners that was
established under state law prior to July 1, 1985 in which all planning,
construction, and maintenance of the drainage system conform with a master plan
for the district and are funded through an assessment on the benefitted acres
within the district.
   DRAINAGE PROJECT. Any human-made improvements constructed or installed with
the intent to drain water.
   HYDRIC SOIL. Soil types which are formed under saturated conditions.
   HYDROPHITIC VEGETATION. Vegetative types typically adapted for life in
saturated soil conditions.
   LANDOWNER or OWNER. Any individual, firm, or corporation, public or private,
or public agency, which has title to real property as shown by the records of
the Register of Deeds. If the real property is sold under a contract for deed
and the contract is of record in the office of the Register of Deeds, both the
recorded owner of the real property and the purchaser as named in the contract
for deed are deemed OWNERS of the real property.
   MEANDERED LAKE. Any pond, slough, or lake which has had its boundaries
established by metes and bounds in the documents of record or in the survey of
public lands by the U.S. government.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
contractor, or any other type of private legal relationship, and any
governmental organization, which includes, but is not limited to, any agency of
the United States, a state agency, and any political subdivision of the state.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Any maintenance performed on a vested drainage right
provided that:
      (1)   The repair or replacement of a closed or lateral drain does not
increase the size, capacity, or length of the existing drain and the original
location of the drain are not altered; and
      (2)   The removal of sediment or vegetation from a natural drain or
surface drain with human-made improvements if the maintenance does not exceed
the original depth and capacity of the channel, or a depth of one foot,
whichever is less, and the original location of the drain are not altered.
   SERVIENT ESTATE. Any parcel of real property, usually at a lower elevation,
which is subject to a legal right allowing a dominant estate to drain water
onto it.
   STREAM, INTERMITTENT. A natural drainage channel indicated by a dot and dash
blue line on the most recently published USGS seven and one-half-minute
quadrangle maps.
   STREAM, PERMANENT. A natural drainage channel indicated by a solid blue line
on the most recently published USGS seven and one-half-minute quadrangle maps.
   VESTED DRAINAGE RIGHT. A right to drain water from one property to another
which has been established on the basis of SDCL Ch. 46A-10A or 46A-11A. Any
natural right acquired before July 1, 1985 is deemed vested. Drainage with
human-made origins or improvements acquired prior to July 1, 1985 is deemed
vested if recorded at the office of the Register of Deeds before July 1, 1992.
Drainage districts are exempt from the recording requirements.
   WATERSHED. The area of land which drains, either directly or indirectly,
into a slough, pond, lake, stream, or watercourse.
   WETLAND. The areas which have a predominance of hydric soil are inundated or
saturated by water for at least 15 days during a growing season, and under
normal circumstances support hydrophilic vegetation.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
DRAINAGE PERMITS
§ 51.020 REQUIREMENT.
   A drainage permit shall be required prior to commencing the excavation for,
or the construction or installation of, a drainage project including, but not
limited to, the following:
   (A)   Construction or installation of a surface or closed drain located
within a watershed area of 20 acres or more;
   (B)   Any draining or filling, in whole or in part, of a pond, wetland, or
lake;
   (C)   Construction of any lateral drain;
   (D)   Modification of any permitted drainage with the intent of deepening or
widening any drainage channel, increasing the size of any drainage tile, or the
extending or rerouting any drainage work;
   (E)   Repairing, replacing, or improving any drain; and
   (F)   Improvements to a drainage district or a coordinated drainage area
which were not included in the original plans.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.021 DRAINAGE DISTRICT OR COORDINATED DRAINAGE AREA PERMITS.
   Each individual drainage project constructed as a part of a drainage
district or coordinated drainage area shall require a separate permit. However,
multiple applications may be reviewed as a single project and notification
shall be made accordingly.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.022 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person required to obtain a drainage permit under this
chapter shall file an application and the required filing fee with the city.
The application shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall include
the signatures of both the property owner and the contractor.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide a detailed site plan showing the
location of the proposed construction. The site plan shall include a
description of the type and size of the drain, and the location of the proposed
outlet. Any application for a proposed drainage project which would empty into
an existing drainage system shall include a description of the type and general
location of the existing system.
      (3)   If the Administrative Official determines that the application is
incomplete or if the information contained therein is insufficient to make an
informed decision on the application, the application shall be returned to the
applicant for revision. The Administrative Official may also require that the
applicant provide a detailed survey prepared by a professional engineer or
surveyor. The applicant shall also provide copies of the complete application
to other affected cities/counties if the application be determined to be of
statewide, intercounty, or city significance.
   (B)   (1)   If the Administrative Official is authorized to grant the
drainage permit, the permit application fee shall be as set forth in the fee
schedule adopted by resolution. The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees
as set forth herein from time to time by resolution.
      (2)   If drainage work is performed without first obtaining a required
permit, in addition to any permit fees, and inspection fee of $500 shall be
charged in order to cover any additional expenses to the city.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.023 NOTIFICATION TO THE NATURAL RESOURCES AND CONSERVATION SERVICE.
   The Administrative Official shall provide a copy of all drainage permit
applications to the USDA Natural Resource and Conservation Service.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.024 AUTHORITY OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL TO GRANT DRAINAGE PERMITS.
   (A)   The Administrative Official shall have the authority to grant or deny
a drainage permit for the following projects. All other drainage permit
applications shall be addressed by the Board:
      (1)   A proposed drainage project which outlets directly into Box Elder
Creek as delineated on the most recently published USGS seven and one-half
minute topographic maps;
      (2)   A proposed drainage project which outlets directly into a permanent
or intermittent stream not listed in division (A)(1) above. The applicant shall
notify property owners by certified mail for at least one-half mile downstream
of the proposed outlet and adjacent landowners upstream of proposed inlet of
the date, place, and time of the open meeting for public comment;
      (3)   A proposed drainage project which does not outlet into a permanent
or intermittent stream. The applicant shall notify property owners by certified
mail for at least one-half mile downstream of the proposed outlet and adjacent
landowners upstream of proposed inlet of the date, place, and time of the open
meeting for public comment;
      (4)   A proposed drainage project which outlets directly or indirectly
into a public or private road right-of-way provided the appropriate authority
has granted approval to drain into the right-of-way. The applicant shall notify
property owners by certified mail for at least one-half mile downstream of the
proposed outlet and adjacent landowners upstream of proposed inlet of the date,
place, and time of the open meeting for public comment; and
      (5)   Routine maintenance.
   (B)   The Administrative Official shall have the authority to require
notification to other landowners if the potential impact of the proposed
drainage extends a distance greater than one-half mile downstream.
   (C)   A permit approved by the Administrative Official shall not become
effective until after five working days following the approval, except for a
permit for routine maintenance which shall become effective upon approval.
   (D)   The Administrative Official shall not have the authority to grant a
drainage permit for a proposed project which would have intercounty or
interstate significance.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.025 APPEALS OF DECISIONS.
   Any decision of the Administrative Official may be appealed to the Board.
The applicant or any person aggrieved by a decision shall file a written appeal
with the Administrative Official within five working days of the Official’s
decision. Upon such filing, the Administrative Official shall forward the
appeal to the Board.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.026 HEARING.
   Following notification in accordance with §
51.030, the Board shall conduct a public hearing on a drainage permit
application or the appeal of an administrative decision.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.027 SIGNIFICANCE OF STATEWIDE, INTERCOUNTY, OR CITY/COUNTY APPLICATION.
   (A)   When an application is determined to be of statewide, intercounty, or
city or county significance, the Board of Commissioners or County Commission or
Drainage Board of each city or county affected shall make a determination on
whether the permit shall be granted. Following notification in accordance with
§
51.030, the Board shall conduct a public hearing on such application. Approval
by all affected city or county is required for permit approval. In the event
that one of the commissions or boards is aggrieved by the decision, the
aggrieved city or county may petition the State Water Management Board for
assistance in accordance with SDCL §§ 46A-10A-9.1 through 46A-10A-9.5.
   (B)   In determining whether the proposed drainage is of statewide,
intercounty, or city or county significance, the Board may consider the
following criteria:
      (1)   Proposed drainage would affect property owned by the state or its
political subdivisions;
      (2)   Proposed drainage of lakes having recognized fish and wildlife
values;
      (3)   Proposed drainage or partial drainage of a meandered lake;
      (4)   Proposed drainage which would have a substantial effect on another
county; and
      (5)   Proposed drainage which would convert previously non-contributing
areas (based on 25- year rainfall event -4%) into permanently contributing
areas.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.028 EVALUATION OF PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   At a minimum, the following factors shall be considered in evaluating the
impact of a proposed drainage project:
   (A)   Flood hazards, floodplain values;
   (B)   Erosion potential;
   (C)   Water quality and supply;
   (D)   Agricultural production;
   (E)   Environmental quality;
   (F)   Aesthetics;
   (G)   Fish and wildlife values; and
   (H)   Considerations of downstream landowners and the potential adverse
effect thereon including consideration of the following criteria:
      (1)   Uncontrolled drainage into receiving watercourses which do not have
sufficient capacity to handle the additional flow and quantity of water shall
be considered to have an adverse effect;
      (2)   Whether drainage is accomplished by reasonably improving and aiding
the normal and natural system of drainage according to its reasonable carrying
capacity, or, in the absence of a practical natural drain, a reasonable
artificial drain system is adopted;
      (3)   The amount of water proposed to be drained;
      (4)   The design and other physical aspects of the drain; and
      (5)   The impact of sustained flows.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.029 CONDITIONS.
   Conditions may be attached to a drainage permit to ensure that the proposed
drainage is accomplished in accordance with the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.030 NOTIFICATION OF BOARD HEARING.
   (A)   The degree of notification for a hearing by the Board shall be based
on the location of the proposed outlet and the type of water body into which
the outlet will discharge. Notification shall be made as indicated in division
(B) below.
   (B)   Prior to the Board hearing, the Administrative Officer shall provide
notice of the hearing by mail to all downstream landowners for at least one-
half mile of the outlet of the proposed drainage project.
   (C)   The notice shall be mailed at least 14 days prior to the hearing date.
The city may recover any notification costs from the applicant.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.031 PRESERVATION OF LANDOWNERS’ RIGHTS AND SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY.
   The granting or denial of a drainage permit shall in no way affect the legal
rights which may otherwise exist between a landowner and any other property
(dominant or servient estate). The city, in considering permit applications,
shall be protected by the Doctrine of Sovereign Immunity and shall not be
subject to any cause of action or claim brought by any person alleging an
impact caused by the water which is the subject of the permit application.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.032 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   A drainage permit shall expire and become null and void if the authorized
construction is not commenced within 365 days of the effective date of the
permit.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.033 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS OR REGULATIONS NOT AFFECTED BY PERMIT APPROVAL.
   A permit approved under the provisions of this chapter shall in no way
remove any responsibility on the part of any landowner, tenant, or contractor
to comply with all applicable local, state, or federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
DRAINAGE DISTRICTS
§ 51.045 APPLICATION FOR REPAIR WORK ON A DRAINAGE DISTRICT.
   (A)   In the event that maintenance is required in a drainage district in
which three or more landowners have voluntarily contributed to the cost of
previous maintenance, at least 60% of the resident landowners served by the
drain may file a petition with the city requesting the Board to take action
regarding the necessary repairs.
   (B)   Such petition shall include a map which shows the boundaries of the
benefitted area of the district in which assessments will be made to cover the
cost of the proposed work, the official name or number of the district, the
initial and terminal points and general or exact course of the drain, a
description of the proposed maintenance, a site plan showing the location of
the maintenance, and a statement that the owners agree to future maintenance
and assessment of the drain by the Board.
   (C)   All maintenance work and assessments shall be completed in accordance
with SDCL Ch. 46A-10A and 46A-11.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.046 CITY ACTION ON MAINTENANCE PETITION.
   Upon receipt of a petition to maintain an existing drainage district, the
Board shall set a date for a public hearing upon the request. The hearing shall
be held within 30 days of the receipt of the petition. Any interested person
may appear at the hearing in regard to the petition.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.047 APPLICATION WHEN DRAINAGE DISTRICT EXTENDS INTO MORE THAN ONE CITY/
COUNTY.
   When the drainage district extends into more than one city/county, the
application shall be made to the city/county which had jurisdiction over the
original drainage district. If the original city/county with jurisdiction is
unknown, application for repair work shall be made to city or all counties
affected.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.048 ABANDONMENT OF DRAINAGE DISTRICT.
   Any drainage district established prior to July 1, 1985 may be abandoned and
abolished after a petition has been filed with the city by not less than 25% of
the drainage district property owners. The petition shall include the name of
the drainage district. The Board shall publish notice and hold a hearing in
conformance with SDCL Ch. 46A-10A. If less than a majority of drainage district
owner’s petition for the abandonment of a drainage district, the Board shall
schedule an election in accordance with SDCL § 46A-10A-43 at which the property
owners within the district shall decide the fate of the district.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
COORDINATED DRAINAGE AREAS
§ 51.060 PETITION.
   When the landowners of an area propose to develop a coordinated network of
drainage projects, a petition shall be filed with the city requesting the
formation of a coordinated drainage area. The petition shall be signed by not
less than 25% of the landowners within the area and shall conform to the
requirements set forth in SDCL § 46A-10A-49. The petition shall include an
accurate survey and map verified by a licensed surveyor which shows the
boundaries and area of land included within the limits of the proposed
coordinated drainage area. The petition shall also detail the type or types of
drainage projects that will be included in the proposed area. The Board shall
place the proposed coordinated drainage area map in a convenient public office
for at least 20 days for examination by those having an interest in the
application and shall set a date for a hearing on the petition.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.061 HEARING AND NOTICE.
   (A)   The Board, after publishing notice of the hearing, shall hold a
hearing on the proposed coordinated drainage area at which any interested
person may appear. If the Board is satisfied that the proposed drainage area is
in the public interest and that all requirements of SDCL Ch. 46A-10A have been
met, it may approve the creation of the coordinated drainage district pending
the assent of a majority of the landowners within the drainage area at an
election to be held within one month of the hearing. However, if the landowners
signing the petition represented a majority of the resident landowners in the
proposed district, no election need be held.
   (B)   The Board, prior to holding a hearing on a petition to establish a
coordinated drainage area, shall publish notice of the hearing in a newspaper
of general circulation in the area affected. The notice shall be published at
least 14 days in advance of the hearing date.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.062 ELECTION.
   (A)   Any election regarding a coordinated drainage area shall be held in
conformance with SDCL §§ 46A-10A-50 through 46A-10A-54.
   (B)   The Board shall give ten days’ notice of an election by publication in
an official newspaper in the proposed coordinated drainage area. The vote shall
be taken by ballot in a form provided by the Board. The ballot shall include
the question on whether a coordinated drainage area should be established and a
note informing voters that all costs of the drainage area will be paid by the
landowners within the area.
   (C)   Establishment of the area shall be effective upon the approval of a
majority of landowners within the district.
   (D)   If a majority vote against the establishment of the drainage area, no
further proceedings may be taken on a similar request for a period of two
years.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.063 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   All costs associated with the coordinated drainage area shall be paid by the
landowners within the district. The city may perform necessary construction
and/or maintenance and recover the costs by assessing the benefitted landowners
within the coordinated drainage area.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
DRAINAGE COMPLAINTS
§ 51.075 JURISDICTION ON DRAINAGE DISPUTES.
   Any landowner may take a drainage dispute directly to circuit court.
However, pursuant to SDCL § 46A-10A-34, the Board may address any drainage
disputes in the incorporated area of the city. The Board may provide that
certain types or categories of drainage disputes will not be heard by the Board
and must be taken directly to circuit court.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.076 FILING A COMPLAINT.
   Any landowner in the city or county may file a drainage complaint by setting
forth the facts of the drainage dispute in writing and submitting it to the
Administrative Official. The complaint shall include the name and address of
the complainant, the location of the property which has suffered or may suffer
damage, and the location of the property against which the complaint is being
registered. When possible, the complaint should detail the type and location of
work and when the work occurred. The Board may require that a drainage dispute
include expert reports from a professional engineer or surveyor.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.077 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL TO OFFER POSSIBLE RESOLUTION/DECISION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a drainage complaint, the Administrative Official
shall make an investigation of the facts, offer a recommendation for resolution
to the parties involved, and, if requested by any affected party, forward the
complaint to the Board for a hearing.
   (B)   The Board shall make a determination whether they will accept
jurisdiction over the particular type or category of drainage which is set
forth in the complaint. If the Board does not accept jurisdiction, the dispute
may be taken to circuit court.
   (C)   If the Board does accept jurisdiction, a date for a public hearing on
the drainage complaint shall be set.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.078 HEARING.
   When a hearing has been scheduled, the Board shall notify all affected
parties of the date and time for the hearing. Any interested individual shall
have the opportunity to appear and be heard. The Board may make a decision
regarding the drainage dispute at the hearing, may defer the item pending
additional information from either of the disputing parties, or may hold
additional hearings on the dispute.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.079 APPEAL.
   Any affected party may appeal the Board’s decision on a drainage dispute to
circuit court.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.090 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Administrative Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all
the provisions of this chapter and establish rules for its administration. The
Administrative Official may designate technical officers and/or inspectors or
other employees who shall be authorized to assist in the administration and
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.091 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrative Official or an
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists
upon any premises a violation of this chapter, the Administrative Official or
an authorized representative may enter such premises at all reasonable times to
inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the Administrative
Official by this chapter, provided that if such property be occupied, the
Administrative Official shall first present proper credentials and request
entry; and if such property be unoccupied, the Administrative Official shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
charge or control of the property and request entry. If such entry is refused,
the Administrative Official or an authorized representative shall have recourse
to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
   (B)   When the Administrative Official or an authorized representative shall
have first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law
to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care,
or control of any property shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made
as herein provided, to promptly permit entry thereon by the Administrative
Official or an authorized representative for the purpose of inspection and
examination pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 51.092 STOP ORDER AND INJUNCTION.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
the Administrative Official may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in or causing such work to be done, and any such
persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Administrative
Official to proceed. In the event of a violation or threatened violation of
this chapter, the Board may institute injunction or other appropriate action or
proceedings, in addition to other remedies, to prevent the unlawful
construction or use of any drainage work.
(Ord. 9, passed 1-18-2007)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Municipal authority
   
52.02   Real property in adjoining states
   
52.03   Emergency contract for repair or replacement
   
52.04   Contract for waterworks system; maximum tax levy
   
52.05   Special assessments governed by provisions for sewer assessments
   
52.06   Connection from water main to lot line
   
52.07   Classification of water pipes and mains
   
52.08   Distance between water connections
Purchase of Pipes and Mains
   
52.25   Financed by special assessments; protest by property owners
   
52.26   Notice, hearing, and action
   
52.27   Competitive bids
   
52.28   Acquisition of water mains in newly annexed area
Water Service
   
52.45   Municipal artesian wells authorized
   
52.46   Operation of irrigation system; assessments and regulation of use
   
52.47   Providing of service for rural water system; purchase of facilities
   
52.48   Certain matters negotiable for contract between parties
   
52.49   Connection of plumbing fixtures; purchase/lease of preexisting private
wells
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality shall construct, establish, operate, and
maintain a system of waterworks and facilities and may regulate the
distribution and use of the supplied thereby.
      (2)   It shall have the authority to assess, levy, and collect taxes and
special assessments for such purposes; and may appropriate funds and levy taxes
to accumulate funds for such purposes, as provided by SDCL Title 9. The
accumulated funds shall be placed in a separate fund which may not revert at
the end of the fiscal year.
      (3)   The municipality shall establish a maximum amount allowed to be
accumulated in the fund. The fund shall be established by a resolution adopted
pursuant to SDCL Chapter 9-19.
   (B)   The municipality may enter into agreements with the United States,
with the state, and with any authorized agency, subdivision, or unit of
government, federal or state, to carry out such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-1
§ 52.02 REAL PROPERTY IN ADJOINING STATES.
   The municipality shall have power to purchase, lease, own, and hold real
property and easements therein in an adjoining state for waterworks purposes.
(Prior Code, § 50.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-2
§ 52.03 EMERGENCY CONTRACT FOR REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Wherever in the municipality the emergency specified in SDCL § 9-21-15
is the complete failure of the water supply of such municipality, the governing
body thereof is authorized to contract for the drilling of a new well or for
such repairs, replacements, and new equipment as may be necessary, privately,
without advertising for bids as required by the laws of this state relating to
contracts of municipalities, and to pay therefor as provided in SDCL §§ 9-21-15
and 9-21-16 as to emergencies; provided, however, that no such contract shall
be executed until the governing body has adopted a resolution of necessity
therefor, by unanimous vote, which resolution shall become effective
immediately upon its passage and publication.
   (B)   Any contract entered into as provided by this section shall be as
binding and have the same force and effect as if it were let in all particulars
as provided by the state law relating to municipality contracts.
(Prior Code, § 50.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-3
   Replacement or repair required by unanticipated event, see SDCL § 9-21-15
§ 52.04 CONTRACT FOR WATERWORKS SYSTEM; MAXIMUM TAX LEVY.
   When the expense in connection with the waterworks system is to be raised by
general taxation, no contract for construction, purchase, lease, or maintenance
which shall stipulate for an annual payment greater than an annual levy of five
mills on each dollar of the assessed valuation of the municipality shall be
authorized until such contract shall first have been submitted to a vote of the
voters of such municipality at a general or special election and ratified by a
majority of those voting at such election.
(Prior Code, § 50.04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-4
§ 52.05 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS GOVERNED BY PROVISIONS FOR SEWER ASSESSMENTS.
   When the expense in connection with the waterworks system is raised by
special assessments, such assessments shall be levied and collected in the
manner provided SDCL Chapter 9-43.
(Prior Code, § 50.05)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-5
§ 52.06 CONNECTION FROM WATER MAIN TO LOT LINE.
   To provide for the laying of water connections from the municipality water
mains to the lot line, the municipality shall assess the cost against the
abutting property owner.
(Prior Code, § 50.06)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-6
§ 52.07 CLASSIFICATION OF WATER PIPES AND MAINS.
   Water pipes or mains are classified as:
   (A)   Service pipe or main. One designed to supply water to the property
abutting upon the particular street or way in which it is laid;
   (B)   Supply pipe or main. Any pipe, ditch, flume, conduit, or other
appliance designed to conduct a supply of water from its source to the
municipality; and
   (C)   Trunk pipe. One designed to supply water to the property abutting upon
the street or way in which it is laid and to other pipes or mains in a defined
district or portion of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 50.08)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-8
§ 52.08 DISTANCE BETWEEN WATER CONNECTIONS.
   No more than one water connection shall be made for each platted lot or for
each 44 feet of frontage of unplatted ground in the residence section, and for
each 22 feet of frontage in the business section of the municipality, except
when the abutting owner requests in writing the placing of water connections at
a less number of feet.
(Prior Code, § 50.09)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-18
PURCHASE OF PIPES AND MAINS
§ 52.25 FINANCED BY SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROTEST BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The purchase authorized may be financed by assessing such cost to the
property fronting or abutting upon the water pipe or main so purchased in the
same manner as provided for construction of service sewers, except that in the
event the owners of a majority of the real property fronting or abutting
thereon prior to such resolution becoming effective file a written protest
against a purchase by special assessment, the governing body shall not have
power to purchase the same in that manner.
(Prior Code, § 50.27)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-13
§ 52.26 NOTICE, HEARING, AND ACTION.
   (A)   When the adoption of a resolution to purchase a private water pipe or
main in the manner provided in§
52.25 shall be proposed to the governing body of the municipality, notice of
the proposed passage of same shall be given by publication once each week for
two successive weeks.
   (B)   Such notice shall contain the text of the proposed resolution, and
shall state the time and place when and where any interested party may make
objection to such purchase.
   (C)   Such hearing shall be held not less than ten nor more than 20 days
after the final publication of such notice.
   (D)   After such hearing, the governing body may adopt or reject such
resolution and, in the event of approval, may proceed to effect such purchase
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 50.29)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-14
§ 52.27 COMPETITIVE BIDS.
   When a purchase of pipes and mains is made pursuant to §§
52.25 and
52.26, competitive bids are not required.
(Prior Code, § 50.30)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-15
§ 52.28 ACQUISITION OF WATER MAINS IN NEWLY ANNEXED AREA.
   The municipality shall have the power, within the discretion of the
governing board of the municipality, to purchase, lease with purchase option,
lease, or otherwise acquire from the owners thereof, or condemn under provision
of subdivision SDCL § 9-12-1(2), any water main or mains laid in, on, or under
any street or alley or otherwise located in any municipality, district, or
subdivision outside the corporate limits of the municipality and which
subdivision or district shall have been, by annexation proceedings or
otherwise, annexed to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 50.32)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-17
WATER SERVICE
§ 52.45 MUNICIPAL ARTESIAN WELLS AUTHORIZED.
   The municipality, if it chooses, may establish and maintain a municipal
artesian well.
(Prior Code, § 50.45)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-20
§ 52.46 OPERATION OF IRRIGATION SYSTEM; ASSESSMENTS AND REGULATION OF USE.
   The municipality shall operate and maintain a system of irrigation within
the municipality and to assess the cost thereof against abutting or benefitted
property in the manner provided by the provisions of this chapter relating to
special assessments, if a connection with an irrigation water supply system is
available; but if not available, the providing of a means of a water supply for
irrigation shall be first authorized at a regular or special election and to
regulate the distribution and use of water supplied for irrigation.
(Prior Code, § 50.46)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-21
§ 52.47 PROVIDING OF SERVICE FOR RURAL WATER SYSTEM; PURCHASE OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Request for rural water system within three miles of municipality. If
a rural water system is requested after July 1, 1989 to provide water service
to any person who resides within three miles of a municipality owning and
operating a water supply system, the rural water system shall promptly notify
such municipality of such request in writing. Within 60 days from the receipt
of such notice, the municipality may elect to provide water service to such
person. If the municipality does not so elect, the rural water system may
provide such service.
(Prior Code, § 50.47)
   (B)   Municipality to provide service after previously declining.
      (1)   If a rural water system provides service to a person whom a
municipality has declined to serve, pursuant to division (A) above, and the
municipality thereafter elects to provide water service to such person, the
municipality shall first purchase the facilities of the rural water system
which were required and used to provide service to such person.
      (2)   The purchase price shall be the present day reproduction cost, new,
of the facilities being acquired, less depreciation computed on a 30-year
straight-line basis, plus an amount equal to the cost on a nonbetterment basis
of constructing any necessary facilities to reintegrate the system of the rural
water system after detaching the portion to be sold; plus as compensation for
service rights, an annual amount, payable each year for a period of five years,
equal to the sum of 5% of the gross revenues received from the sale of water
service to such person during the five-year period.
      (3)   Gross revenues received shall be determined by applying the rate in
effect by the purchased rural water system at the time of purchase.
(Prior Code, § 50.48)
   (C)   Providing services; purchase of facilities. If a municipality elects
to provide water service to any person who is being served by a rural water
system and who resides within the boundaries of a municipality or within three
miles of the municipality as the boundaries exist on July 1, 1989, the
municipality shall purchase the facilities of the rural water system which were
required and used to provide service to such person. The purchase price shall
be as set forth in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 50.49)
   (D)   Service to persons within extended areas. If the three-mile area
referred to in division (C) above is extended as a result of annexation,
consolidation, or incorporation after July 1, 1989, and the municipality elects
to provide service to any person receiving service from a rural water system
residing within the newly extended three-mile area, the municipality shall
purchase the facilities of the rural water system which were required and used
to provide service to such person. The purchase price shall be determined
pursuant to division (B) above. The provisions of division (A) above are
applicable to all persons seeking water service in the newly extended area from
and after the effective date of such extension.
(Prior Code, § 50.50)
   (E)   Election to provide service to those outside three-mile area. If a
municipality elects to provide water service to any person being served by a
rural water system and located more than three miles from the municipal
boundaries, the municipality shall purchase the facilities of the rural water
system which were required and used to provide service to such person. The
purchase price shall be determined pursuant to division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 50.51)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-47-22, 9-47-23, 9-47-24, 9-47-25, and 9-
47-26
§ 52.48 CERTAIN MATTERS NEGOTIABLE FOR CONTRACT BETWEEN PARTIES.
   The provisions of SDCL §§ 9-47-22 through 9-47-26, inclusive, do not prevent
a municipality and a rural water system from contracting with each other
relative to the transfer of customers, disposition, and sale of facilities and
related matters on such terms and conditions as they may determine.
(Prior Code, § 50.52)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-27
§ 52.49 CONNECTION OF PLUMBING FIXTURES; PURCHASE/LEASE OF PREEXISTING PRIVATE
WELLS.
   (A)   Each building in which plumbing fixtures are installed shall connect
to a public water supply system if available. A public water system is
available to a premises used for human occupancy if the property line of the
premises is within 200 feet of the system.
   (B)   A municipality may purchase, lease with purchase option, lease, or
otherwise acquire from the owners any preexisting private wells located within
the municipality. The provisions of this section do not apply to municipalities
of the first class.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires any municipality to provide any
municipal service outside of its municipal boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 50.53)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-47-28
CHAPTER 53: SANITARY SEWER SERVICE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   City sewer system; supervision
   
53.003   Duties
   
53.004   When connection required
   
53.005   Unsanitary deposits prohibited
   
53.006   Disposal of wastewater to storm sewers or natural outlet prohibited
   
53.007   Private wastewater disposal systems and the like prohibited
   
53.008   Responsibility; breakage of lines
   
53.009   Right of entry
   
53.010   Right to information
   
53.011   Entry onto certain easements
   
53.012   Damage; disorderly conduct
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.025   Authority to use, alter or make connection
   
53.026   Building sewer permit; classes
   
53.027   Responsibility for cost; indemnification of city
   
53.028   Separate connections; adjoining properties
   
53.029   Use of existing building sewers for new buildings
   
53.030   Technical specifications
   
53.031   Building sewer elevation
   
53.032   Inspection
   
53.033   Excavations
   
53.034   Abandoned sewer lines
   
53.035   Connections outside city
   
53.036   Extension of public infrastructure to accommodate individual service
connections
Sanitary Sewer System Use Regulations
   
53.050   Prohibited drainage in sanitary sewers
   
53.051   Storm sewers and natural outlets
   
53.052   Discharges prohibited into public sewers
   
53.053   Limited discharges in public sewers
   
53.054   Discretionary authority of Director
   
53.055   Interceptors
   
53.056   Drains in public garages and wash racks
   
53.057   Pretreatment or flow equalization
   
53.058   Manholes
   
53.059   Information needed for compliance
   
53.060   Sampling and testing
   
53.061   Special arrangements
Service Charges
   
53.075   Purpose
   
53.076   Determining the total annual cost of operation and maintenance
   
53.077   Sewer tap permit
   
53.078   Sewer tap fees
   
53.079   Sewer connection fees
   
53.080   Industrial waste permit fees
   
53.081   Sewer use charge
   
53.082   Wastewater treatment system service fee
   
53.083   Wastewater treatment repair and maintenance fee
   
53.084   Billing
   
53.085   Property owner service fee responsibility
   
53.086   Wastewater customers outside the city limits
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
53.095   Private disposal
   
53.096   Bulk users
   
53.097   Permit
   
53.098   Inspection
   
53.099   Compliance with state and county requirements
   
53.100   Sewer connections; availability of public sewer
   
53.101   Operation and maintenance
   
53.102   Additional requirements
Storm Sewer Maintenance Fund
   
53.115   Generally
   
53.116   Purpose
   
53.117   Storm sewer maintenance fee assessment
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Director of Public Works or his or her duly
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   BEDROCK. Solid rock underlying soil and loose rock fragments or locally
exposed at the surface.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20º C. expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER (HOUSE CONNECTION or SERVICE SEWER). The extensions from the
building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Public Law 92-500,
also known as the Clean Water Act, including all amendments thereto.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the city, or his or her authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
   DOMESTIC SEPTAGE. Septage generated from domestic wastewaters.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Water-carried wastes from dwellings or wastewaters
which are similar in physical, biological and chemical characteristics.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   FLOATING OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it can be
separated by gravity from wastewater in an approved pretreatment facility.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   GROUNDWATER. The water below the earth surface which occupies the pore
spaces in the saturated zone of a geologic stratum.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Liquid wastes from generators containing materials or
exhibiting specific properties identified in 40 C.F.R. part 261.
   HOLDING TANK. A watertight, covered receptacle which is designed to receive
and store wastewater and is accessible for periodic removal of its contents.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any commercial, institutional or industrial operation that
introduces industrial wastewaters into the city’s wastewater facilities.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERFERENCE. Such disruption of the collection, treatment or sludge
disposal processes or causes the city to violate its national pollutant
discharge elimination system permit or which causes the accumulation of toxic
metals or other substances in the sludge disposal areas.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT. The permit issued by
EPA to the city which establishes water quality standards for the effluent of
the city’s treatment facilities as authorized by the Clean Water Act.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   OWNER. The person owning the lot, parcel of land, building or premises
connected to and discharging wastewater into the wastewater system of the city,
and who is legally responsible for the payment of sewer service charges made
against the lot, parcel of land, building or premises.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
contained in one liter of solution.
   PREMISES. All the parcels of land included in the city in a single
assessor’s parcel number.
   PROJECT TYPES.
      (1)   EXPANSION/ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT. A project which extends sewer
infrastructure to provide service for new developments.
      (2)   IMPROVEMENT. A project which provides for increased capacity, or
improved efficiency to existing systems. This type of project is located within
the existing city service area or corporate limits.
      (3)   REPLACEMENT. A project which replaces or repairs existing
infrastructure with similar components having more or less the same capacity as
the original.
      (4)   SERVICE AREA. The geographic area in which the city currently
provides an actual service. This contrasts with a planning service area in
which the city may provide service in the future.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer located in publicly-owned land or easements and
controlled by the city.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEPTAGE. A mixture of liquids and solid materials removed from a septic
tank, portable toilet, recreational vehicle holding tank, Type III marine
sanitation device, or similar system. The contents of vault privies and
substances such as grease trap residues, interceptor residues, and grit and
screenings are not included in this definition of septage.
   SEPTIC TANK. A watertight, accessible, covered receptacle which receives
wastewater from a building or facility sewer that allows solids to settle from
the liquid, provides digestion for organic solids, stores digested solids
through a period of retention, and allows a clarified liquid to discharge to
additional treatment works for final treatment and dispersal.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying wastewater.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste in which the
concentration of any given constituent or in which quality of flows exceed for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flow from the source during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but which excludes wastewater and industrial wastes other than
uncontaminated cooling water.
   SURFACE WATER. Water on the surface of the earth, as distinguished from
groundwater. Some examples are lakes, ponds, rivers and streams.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that
is removable by laboratory filtering using methods prescribed by EPA.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than effluent criteria
in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality
standards and would not be benefited by discharging to the sanitary sewers and
wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VAULT PRIVY. A structure which allows for disposal of human excreta into a
watertight vault, provides privacy and shelter, and prevents access to the
excreta by flies, rodents and other animals.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of the community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried chemical or solid
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any groundwater, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES (WASTEWATER SYSTEM). All facilities for collecting,
pumping, transporting, treating and disposing of wastewater arid wastewater
sludge.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. The facilities provided by the city to treat
wastewaters as necessary to meet national pollutant discharge elimination
system permit conditions and to comply with other environmental laws, rules and
regulations.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.002 CITY SEWER SYSTEM; SUPERVISION.
   The city sewer system shall be under the supervision of the Public Works
Director who shall be responsible to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.003 DUTIES.
   The Public Works Director shall make or supervise and inspect and approve
all taps of public sewers in addition to such other duties as shall be
prescribed by the Board of Commissioners or by the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.004 WHEN CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of each house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and is
within 400 feet of a public sewer is hereby required, at the owner’s expense,
to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter within 90 days after date of official notice to do so. Any extension of
city public infrastructure to accommodate required connections shall comply
with adopted public works standards.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.005 UNSANITARY DEPOSITS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.006 DISPOSAL OF WASTEWATER TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLET PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city any wastewaters except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.007 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, cesspool, or other facility intended or used
for the disposal of wastewater. Private wastewater disposal systems may be
permitted upon recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Board and approval of
the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.008 RESPONSIBILITY; BREAKAGE OF LINES.
   In the event of breakage, leakage or obstruction of any city sewer main, the
city shall be responsible for the replacement or repair of the main line. In
the event of breakage of any sewer line running from a residence, business or
any structure to the city main line, the owner or person having responsibility
of the residence, business or structure, shall be responsible for its repair or
replacement. If any person shall fail to promptly repair any leaky, clogged, or
inadequate private sewer line or house service sewer line, or if any person
shall fail to promptly and properly empty or repair any septic tank, after
being notified by the city to do so, the city may cause the service pipe to be
repaired and assess the actual cost of the repair plus an administrative charge
of 10% to the property.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.009 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.010 RIGHT TO INFORMATION.
   The Director or other duly authorized employees are authorized to obtain
information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. The industry
may withhold information considered confidential. The industry must establish
that the revelation to the public of the information in question might result
in an advantage to competitors.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.011 ENTRY ONTO CERTAIN EASEMENTS.
   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within such easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on such
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.012 DAMAGE; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person(s) violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.025 AUTHORITY TO USE, ALTER OR MAKE CONNECTION.
   No person except city employees or contractors directly employed by the city
who are authorized to do so by the Director and other duly authorized employees
of the city shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into, use, alter
or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a
written permit from the Director.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.026 BUILDING SEWER PERMIT; CLASSES.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits. One class shall be for
residential dwelling units and the other shall be for commercial, institutional
and industrial users. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the director. A permit and inspection
fee for residential, commercial and industrial building sewer permits shall be
paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.027 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS; INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.028 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS; ADJOINING PROPERTIES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for each lot.
The location of sewer service lines shall be in conformance with the city’s
standard specifications.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.029 USE OF EXISTING BUILDING SEWERS FOR NEW BUILDINGS.
   Existing building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and testing by the Director and other duly
authorized employees of the city to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.030 TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all sanitary
sewers, including building sewers, and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and back-filling the trench, shall all
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or state. All such connections
shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper testing. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Director before installation.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.031 BUILDING SEWER ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the buildings sewer.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.032 INSPECTION.
   No sewer trench shall be filled or sewer pipe covered until the building
sewer has been first inspected by the Director and other duly authorized
employees of the city. Persons making sewer connections shall give at least 24
hours’ notice to the Director of the time when such service sewer shall be
ready for inspection. The Director shall inspect such sewer within a reasonable
time and if such service sewer is not properly laid or connected, the public
works director shall order the same to be taken out and relaid.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.033 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards. The
permittee shall agree to assume responsibility for any public liability or
property damage which may result from the work. Streets, sidewalks, parkways or
other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in
accordance with the design standards and standard specifications then currently
in effect.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.034 ABANDONED SEWER LINES.
   Abandoned sewer lines will be removed from the sewer main and the patch in
the sewer line will be replaced pursuant to the current method approved by the
Public Works Department.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.035 CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CITY.
   No sewer connection permit shall be issued after the effective date of this
chapter to serve any property located outside the corporate limits of the city,
except with specific approval of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.036 EXTENSION OF PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE TO ACCOMMODATE INDIVIDUAL SERVICE
CONNECTIONS.
   Any extension of public infrastructure to accommodate individual service
connections shall comply with
Chapter 151. The cost for installation of sewer infrastructure to a individual
service or within a new development is the sole responsibility of the owner
except for oversize cost as provided for in
Chapter 151. The city may, at the discretion of the Board of Commissioners,
choose to pay for a portion of the cost to extend sewer infrastructure to a new
development.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM USE REGULATIONS
§ 53.050 PROHIBITED DRAINAGE IN SANITARY SEWERS.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters
such as storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage or cooling water to any sewer except storm water runoff from limited
areas, which stormwater may be polluted at times and may be discharged to the
sanitary sewer by permission of the Director.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.051 STORM SEWERS AND NATURAL OUTLETS.
   Storm water, other than that exempted under §
53.050, and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as
are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by
the Director and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling water
or process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Director, to a storm
sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.052 DISCHARGES PROHIBITED INTO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described water or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   (B)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
contaminate the sludge of any municipal systems, or to injure or interfere with
any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create
a public nuisance, or create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the
waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works. Any user discharging
any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in the costs of managing the
effluent or the sludge of the city’s treatment works, shall pay for such
increased costs;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.053 LIMITED DISCHARGES IN PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or waste shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Public Works Director may set limitations lower than the limitations
established in the regulations below if in his or her opinion such more severe
limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her
opinion as to the acceptability, the Public Works Director will give
consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to
flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant
and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Public Works Director are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150º F. (65º C.);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil
origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from a premise containing floatable oils, fat or grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see §
53.001). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Public Works Director for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Public Works Director;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Public Works Director in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a SLUG
as defined in this chapter;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.054 DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.053, and in the judgment of the Director, may have a deleterious effect upon
the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Director
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
53.080.
   (B)   When considering the above alternatives, the Director shall give
consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the discharger. If
the Director permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Director.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.055 INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts as specified in §
53.053(C), or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except
that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Director, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors the owner
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means
of the captivated material and shall maintain records of the dates, and means
of disposal which are subject to review by the director. Any removal and
hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner personnel must be
performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.056 DRAINS IN PUBLIC GARAGES AND WASH RACKS.
   Every public garage or other place having a wash rack used for washing
vehicles shall install a standard garage drain approved by the Public Works
Director. Such drain shall be so constructed and operated as to prevent mud,
sand and other debris from being washed into the city sewer system and shall be
kept in proper working order.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.057 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZATION.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.058 MANHOLES.
   When required by the Director, the owner(s) of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such
structures, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Public Works Director. The
structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.059 INFORMATION NEEDED FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Director may require a customer of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   These requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the customer's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.060 SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of wastewater to
which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in accordance with
rules, specified in 40 C.F.R. part 136, or in the absence of 40 C.F.R. part 136
methods, by methods contained with the latest edition of Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public
Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by
the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.061 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
SERVICE CHARGES
§ 53.075 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to generate sufficient revenue to pay
all costs for the capital costs and operation and maintenance of the complete
wastewater system. The costs shall be distributed to all customers of the
system in proportion to each customer’s contribution to the total loading of
the treatment works. Factors such as strength (BOD and TSS), volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics shall be considered and included as the
basis for the customer’s maintenance costs to each
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.076 DETERMINING THE TOTAL ANNUAL COST OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The Director shall determine the total annual costs of operation and
maintenance of the wastewater system which are necessary to maintain the
capacity and performance, during the service life of the treatment works, for
which such works were designed and constructed. The total annual costs of
operation and maintenance shall include, but need not be limited to, labor,
repairs, equipment replacement, maintenance, necessary modifications, power,
sampling, laboratory tests and a reasonable contingency fund.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.077 SEWER TAP PERMIT.
   Owners of property desirous of discharging to the sanitary sewer, within the
corporate limits of the city, shall have a licensed plumbing contractor make
application, in writing, to the city. Such application to state the name of the
owner, a description of the premises, the size of the tap, the kind of service
pipe to be used, and the purpose for which it is to be used. Such application
must be made at least two days before the work is to be commenced. A permit
shall be issued after the application is approved by the director of public
works or his or her designee, and payment is made for connection fees as
provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.078 SEWER TAP FEES.
   Refer to the fee schedule adopted by resolution. The Board of Commissioners
may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to time by resolution. The
sewer tap fees provide for the following: an initial field inspection of the
private sewer service line from the sewer stub to the structure, mileage,
administrative tracking and card drawing.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.079 SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   Upon recommendation by the Director, the Board of Commissioners may by
resolution impose sewer construction fees on individual properties in certain
identified, unserved areas when properties in such area are benefited by the
installation of a sewer. All users in such service area shall pay an additional
sewer construction fee prior to connecting to the sewer. This sewer connection
fee shall be in addition to the ordinary tap fees imposed by this chapter. The
city may enter into agreements assigning the cost of installation of sewer
water mains to serve such service areas. The ordinance codified in this section
implements authority granted in SDCL § 9-48-15.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.080 INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT FEES.
   Refer to the fee schedule adopted by resolution. The Board of Commissioners
may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to time by resolution.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.081 SEWER USE CHARGE.
   (A)   Minimum rate and monthly charge. All wastewater and industrial waste
discharged to the wastewater facilities shall be paid for by the tenant or
owner of the premises served, according to the following schedule:
      (1)   Residential class: Refer to the fee schedule adopted by resolution.
The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to
time by resolution; and
      (2)   Commercial and industrial class: Refer to fee schedule adopted by
resolution. The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein
from time to time by resolution $64.35 per service.
   (B)   Surcharge. There is established and imposed, pursuant to the authority
of SDCL Chapter 9-40, a surcharge upon sewer service, the proceeds of such
surcharge to be used for the payment of the principal of and interest on bonds
issued under the authority of SDCL Chapter 9-40. No portion of the proceeds of
such surcharge shall be expended for any purpose other than retiring sewer
bonds until all of such bonds have been retired. The surcharge shall be imposed
at the rate of $10.35 per sewer account. The charge shall be in addition to any
rate per unit charges imposed under division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Deposits.
      (1)   Any customer requesting sanitary sewer service from the city shall
be required to make one of the following deposits based upon the type of
service required:
         (a)   All commercial accounts: $100;
         (b)   Residential accounts where the customer does not own the
property being served, to be referred to as residential rental accounts: $100;
         (c)   Residential accounts where the customer does own the property
being served, to be referred to as residential owner accounts: $50); or
         (d)   Delinquent accounts: $100.
      (2)   The Finance Officer shall, at his or her sole and unlimited
discretion, have the ability to waive the deposit in consideration of the
customer’s previous record of prompt payment to the city for utility services.
Letters of reference from other utility companies are not acceptable in lieu of
utility deposit.
      (3)   A delinquent account deposit shall be required at such time as the
customer had prior service with the city, and had such service disconnected for
nonpayment; or if collection efforts outside the normal procedure for the
finance office (small claims action, lien on the property or collection agency
action) were taken; or if customer had four late utility payments (not
consecutive) with any 12-month period.
      (4)   The Finance Officer shall deposit such moneys in a separate account
and interest earned thereon shall be the property of the city. At such time as
sanitary sewer service shall be terminated, the Finance Officer shall promptly
refund any such deposit to the water customer; provided however, that all
accounts are paid in full. In the event that the water customer and owner of
any trust deposit shall fail to pay his or her utility billings to the city
before the same may be delinquent, then the Finance Officer shall have the
right to withdraw such trust fund and apply to any obligation. This remedy
shall be in addition to any other remedies the city shall have for the
collection of such moneys and the right to terminate such service upon
nonpayment by the water customer.
      (5)   Fees, charges, and rates for sewer services, connections, and tap
fees may be changed per resolution by the Board of Commissioners whose
authority to do so is granted by SDCL § 9-48-15.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008; Ord. 30-A, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 53.082 WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM SERVICE FEE.
   A wastewater treatment system service fee may be charged on all monthly
accounts of the sanitary sewer service system. The fee will be established as
an Enterprise Fund. The purpose of the wastewater treatment system service fee
will be to provide funding for the wastewater management of the system and to
generate sufficient revenue for future expansion, for anticipated area growth
and development, and to fund emergency situations and address life safety
issues, flooding and infrastructure damage. Upon recommendation by the Public
Works Director, fees may be imposed. Fees may be determined per resolution by
the Board of Commissioners whose authority to do so is granted by SDCL § 9-48-
15.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.083 WASTEWATER TREATMENT REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE FEE.
   A wastewater treatment repair and maintenance fee may be charged to all
users of the sanitary sewer service system. The purpose of the fee shall be to
maintain the wastewater treatment system. Upon recommendation by the Public
Works Director, fees may be imposed. Fees may be determined per resolution by
the Board of Commissioners whose authority to do so is granted by SDCL § 9-48-
15.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008; Ord. 30-D, passed 9-16-2010) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.084 BILLING.
   The sewer use billing shall be monthly and shall be based on the rates
determined in §
53.083. The city shall assess a $15 penalty if the payment is not received by
the city within 15 days. Each customer shall be notified by mail of the
delinquent account along with the attachment of penalty. After notification and
if the delinquent account is not paid within ten days, the city shall take all
legal remedies to collect the over due bill.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008; Ord. 2021-06, passed 10-21-2021)
§ 53.085 PROPERTY OWNER SERVICE FEE RESPONSIBILITY.
   All fees, charges, and rates for sewer services, connections, and tap fees
are the responsibility of the property owner. In the event that a renter’s
monthly fees are in arrears, the property owner/landlord shall be held
responsible for any and all fees, late charges, and filing fees as have been
incurred on the account.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008; Ord. 30-B, passed 11-19-2009)
§ 53.086 WASTEWATER CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE THE CITY LIMITS.
   All customers of wastewater services provided by city, outside the corporate
limits, shall be governed by all rules, regulations and ordinances in effect
within the city concerning the same, and shall be charged the rate of one and
one-half times the rate for in-town customers in the same customer class
category as determined by the Board of Commissioners except for those serviced
by the wastewater treatment plant prior to adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 53.095 PRIVATE DISPOSAL.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
53.004 and the owner has received approval, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.096 BULK USERS.
   All bulk users of wastewater services provided by the city hall be governed
by all rules, regulations and ordinances in effect within the city concerning
the same, and shall be charged the rate as determined and set by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008; Ord. 30-C, passed 11-19-2009)
§ 53.097 PERMIT.
   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal system
the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Director. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city which
the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the Director. A permit and inspection
fee shall be as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by resolution. The Board
of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to time by
resolution, shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed and
will be considered a sewer tap fee as identified in §
53.077.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.098 INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Director. The
Director shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction,
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Public Works
Director when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Director.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.099 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND COUNTY REQUIREMENTS.
   All minimum lot size requirements and the type, capacities, location and
layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all
requirements of the South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural
Resources and the county.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.100 SEWER CONNECTIONS; AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer as provided in §
53.004, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private wastewater
disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable
material as required by the state.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.101 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
§ 53.102 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Director.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
STORM SEWER MAINTENANCE FUND
§ 53.115 GENERALLY.
   Storm sewer runoff is defined as the precipitation that travels over land
and across surfaces, including but not limited to parking lots, driveways, or
rooftops, and flows into our streams or rivers via storm drains or drainage
system infrastructure. In addition to adding pollutants to storm water, urban
development increases the quantity and velocity of runoff, so that downstream
properties become more susceptible to flooding, erosion increases in channels
and streams, and the land's natural beauty and habitats are lost.
(Ord. 31, passed 9-16-2010)
§ 53.116 PURPOSE.
   The Storm Sewer Maintenance Fund is a special revenue fund with the
responsibility for providing storm sewer maintenance and management to the
residential, commercial and industrial customers it serves. Storm sewer
maintenance and management is a vital issue in the city. Projects necessary to
address life safety issues, flooding, and infrastructure damage have been
identified as essential to the well-being of the community.
(Ord. 31, passed 9-16-2010)
§ 53.117 STORM SEWER MAINTENANCE FEE ASSESSMENT.
   A storm sewer maintenance fee assessment may be charged to all platted lots
within the city per SDCL §§ 9-48-21 and 9-48-25. Upon recommendation by the
Public Works Director, fees may be imposed. Fees may be determined per
resolution by the Board of Commissioners whose authority to do so is granted by
SDCL § 9-48-15.
(Ord. 31, passed 9-16-2010)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limits
provided for in this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction
thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation.
Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 30, passed 8-21-2008)
CHAPTER 54: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
54.01   Commission may adopt system for collection and disposal
   
54.02   City collection system
   
54.03   Rates
   
54.04   Commission authority over rates
   
54.05   Billing and failure to pay
   
54.06   Container regulations
   
54.07   Placement of garbage cans and rubbish
   
54.08   Compulsory and universal system
   
54.09   Hazardous or toxic waste not to be placed in any container for
collection
   
54.10   Yard waste
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 COMMISSION MAY ADOPT SYSTEM FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   The City Commission shall have the power and duty to provide for the removal
of garbage and rubbish by the system outlined in this chapter or by developing
a separate licensing procedure.
(Ord. --, passed 2-2-2023)
§ 54.02 CITY COLLECTION SYSTEM.
   In lieu of issuing a license or licenses to collectors, the City Commission
is hereby authorized to purchase or rent the necessary equipment and employ the
necessary personnel to collect and dispose of the garbage and rubbish found in
the city and collects and retains the collection fees as hereinafter provided.
Commercial haulers that haul within the city limits must obtain a license to
operate pursuant to
Ch. 111 of this code.
(Ord. --, passed 2-2-2023)
§ 54.03 RATES.
   It is hereby determined that the Commission shall establish by resolution
all reasonable and necessary charges to be levied, imposed and collected for
said garbage and rubbish collection and disposal in order to provide proper
sanitary control within the city.
(Ord. --, passed 2-2-2023)
§ 54.04 COMMISSION AUTHORITY OVER RATES.
   The city shall have the power by resolution to lower or raise the charges.
(Ord. --, passed 2-2-2023)
§ 54.05 BILLING AND FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   Any charges for services as provided for shall be paid with the city
utility bill. The city shall not be obligated to collect and dispose of the
garbage and rubbish from that unit until such time that all charges are paid up
to date.
   (B)   In the event the payment is not made within the time noted on the
utility bill, any applicable penalties of this chapter shall apply.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other collection provision provided for under this
chapter, the city shall have the power to collect the sanitation fee imposed
herein through any other remedy available to it under the statutes of the
state.
(Ord. --, passed 2-2-2023)
§ 54.06 CONTAINER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Residential solid waste containers will be provided by the city and
shall be kept closed and all of the contents shall be protected so that the
wind cannot blow out and scatter the contents over the streets, alleys or
property within the city. All refuse shall be placed in garbage bags and the
bags must be securely fastened at the opening, and all boxes and containers
must be sealed in such a fashion that no refuse can fall, blow away, or leak
out. No other residential containers are allowed for dumping.
   (B)   Garbage shall be placed in containers provided by the city and no
family unit shall place garbage in any city provided container without having
drained off the moisture and placed it in plastic garbage bags or wrapped it in
paper to avoid odor and freezing to the garbage can. Ashes must be cold before
being placed in any garbage container. All rubbish shall be placed in
sufficiently strong containers to adequately hold and confine such waste
materials. Materials stuck in the garbage can are the responsibility of the
homeowner to get unstuck. Sanitation workers shall not be responsible for
picking up garbage which has been strewn about or not in proper containers.
(Ord. --, passed 2-2-2023)
§ 54.07 PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE CANS AND RUBBISH.
   Garbage and rubbish shall be placed for pick up in a location adjacent to
the public right-of-way (curbside) so as to allow safe operation of city
equipment. In no case shall any garbage truck be required to use any private
driveway in collecting garbage and rubbish.
(Ord. --, passed 2-2-2023)
§ 54.08 COMPULSORY AND UNIVERSAL SYSTEM.
   The maintenance of health, sanitation and safety require, and it is the
intention hereof to make the collection, removal and disposal of garbage and
rubbish within the city compulsory and universal. The collection of garbage and
rubbish shall be the exclusive authority of the city. No private refuse
collection firms shall be allowed to pick up any garbage or trash in the city
unless licensed by or under contract with the city to do so.
(Ord. --, passed 2-2-2023)
§ 54.09 HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC WASTE NOT TO BE PLACED IN ANY CONTAINER FOR
COLLECTION.
   Hazardous or toxic waste shall not be placed in any container for
collection, transport, processing or disposal by the city. The terms hazardous
or toxic waste as used herein shall be deemed to mean any pesticides,
herbicides, insecticides, or any narcotic, drug, barbiturates, or stimulant
drug which is not permitted under state law to be sold over the counter without
prescription. Tires, oil and refrigerant are also not allowed.
(Ord. --, passed 2-2-2023)
§ 54.10 YARD WASTE.
   Yard waste shall not be placed in any curb-side container for collection by
the city. Yard waste can be taken to the designated areas as prescribed by the
city.
(Ord. --, passed 2-2-2023)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. --, passed 2-2-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Authority
   
70.03   Adoption of state traffic laws
   
70.04   Refusing to comply with order of police
   
70.05   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
70.06   Opening doors into traffic
   
70.07   Animals and vehicles on sidewalk
   
70.08   Texting prohibited
Snowmobiles
   
70.20   Definitions
   
70.21   Speeding and reckless driving prohibited
   
70.22   Age restrictions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases defined in SDCL § 32-14-1 shall, when used in this
chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in such section,
except in those instances where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 AUTHORITY.
   This municipality shall have authority to enact and enforce regulations
pursuant to SDCL §§ 9-31-1 through 9-31-5.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)
§ 70.03 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS.
   The provisions of SDCL Title 32 are adopted by reference. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate those provisions. All traffic control signs,
devices, signals, and markings shall be deemed erected pursuant to SDCL Title
32.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 REFUSING TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful to fail or refuse to:
   (A)   Submit to any lawful inspection under this chapter; and
   (B)   Comply with the provisions of a warning ticket issued by a police
officer under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful to board or alight from a vehicle that is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 OPENING DOORS INTO TRAFFIC.
   No person may open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor may any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(Prior Code, § 70.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 32-30-2.5
§ 70.07 ANIMALS AND VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person may drive any vehicle other than a bicycle or an electric
personal assistive device upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area in the municipality
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (B)   No person shall ride, drive, lead any horse or mule, or drive or lead
any cow or any other animal upon any public sidewalk in the municipality or
cause to be drawn any vehicle ordinarily drawn by horses or mules on any
sidewalk of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 70.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 32-26-21.1
§ 70.08 TEXTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. The words and phrases defined in this section, shall,
when used in this section, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
such section, except in those instances where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE. A mobile communication device
that uses short-wave analog or digital radio transmissions or satellite
transmissions between the device and a transmitter to permit wireless telephone
communications to and from the user of the device within a specified area;
      VOICE OPERATED OR HANDS FREE TECHNOLOGY. Technology that allows a user to
write, send, or listen to a text-based communication without the use of either
hand except to activate, deactivate, or initiate a feature or function; and
      WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION. Using an electronic
wireless communications device to manually communicate with any person using
text-based communication including communications referred to as a text
message, instant message or electronic mail.
(SDCL § 32-26-46)
   (B)   Use of handheld electronic wireless communication device for text-
based communication on highway
      (1)   Prohibited; violation as petty offense. No person may operate a
motor vehicle on a highway while using a handheld electronic wireless
communication device to write, send or read a text-based communication.
      (2)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to a person who is using a
handheld electronic wireless communication device:
         (a)   While the vehicle is lawfully parked;
         (b)   To contact any emergency public safety answering point or
dispatch center;
         (c)   To write, read, select, or enter a telephone number or name in
an electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of making or
receiving a telephone call; or
         (d)   When using voice operated or hands free technology.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section is a petty offense with a fine of
$100.
(SDCL § 32-26-47)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 70.20 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases defined in SDCL § 32-20A-1 shall, when used in this
subchapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in such section,
except in those instances where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning.
(Prior Code, § 73.01)
§ 70.21 SPEEDING AND RECKLESS DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person may operate a snowmobile in the following manner:
   (A)   At a speed that is greater than is reasonable or prudent under the
circumstances;
   (B)   In any reckless way so as to endanger the person or property of
another; or
   (C)   Without a functioning muffler complying with SDCL § 32-15-17.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 32-20A-2
§ 70.22 AGE RESTRICTIONS.
   There is no age limitation for the operation of a snowmobile. However, no
person under the age of 14 may drive a snowmobile across a roadway as defined
in SDCL § 32-14-1(27) of a highway as defined in SDCL §§ 31-1-5(1) to 31-1-5
(4), inclusive, except under the immediate direction of a parent, legal
guardian, or person who is 18 years of age or older.
(Prior Code, § 73.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 32-20A-3
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this traffic code shall result in a fine not to exceed $500
or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
Statutory reference:
Maximum penalty, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Scope and purpose
   
71.002   Definitions
   
71.003   Speed regulations
   
71.004   Duties and obligations in event of an accident
   
71.005   Bicycles
Operation of Vehicles
   
71.020   License requirement
   
71.021   Under the influence
   
71.022   Stop requirements for railroad grade crossing
   
71.023   Drive on right side of highway
   
71.024   Meeting of vehicles
   
71.025   Overtaking a vehicle
   
71.026   Limitation of privilege of overtaking and passing
   
71.027   Driver to give way to overtaking vehicles
   
71.028   Following too closely
   
71.029   Turning at intersections
   
71.030   Right-of-way
   
71.031   Exceptions
   
71.032   Requirements on approach of authorized vehicle
   
71.033   Driving through safety zone prohibited
   
71.034   Coasting prohibited
   
71.035   Driving on sidewalk, bike path, intersections prohibited
   
71.036   Reckless driving
   
71.037   Careless driving
   
71.038   U-turns at intersections
   
71.039   U-turns prohibited
   
71.040   Truck routes
   
71.041   Slow driving
   
71.042   Stealing rides and trailing sleds
   
71.043   Exhibition driving
   
71.044   Commercial vehicles
Condition of Vehicles
   
71.055   Restrictions on tire equipment
   
71.056   Brakes
   
71.057   Horns and warning devices
   
71.058   Mirrors required
   
71.059   Windshields shall be unobstructed
   
71.060   Prevention of noise, smoke, and regulations of muffler cut-outs
   
71.061   Required lighting equipment of vehicles
   
71.062   Obstruction of operator’s view of driving mechanism
Parking and Storage on Public Property
   
71.075   Vehicles shall stop at certain through highways or streets
   
71.076   Vehicles shall yield at certain through highways or streets
   
71.077   Parking or stopping on streets or highways
   
71.078   Diagonal parking requirements
   
71.079   Parallel parking requirements
   
71.080   Stopping in alleys and private driveways
   
71.081   Parking and stopping prohibited
   
71.082   Parking; snow removal
   
71.083   Accumulation of personal property or junk on public property
prohibited
   
71.084   Fires on public property prohibited
   
71.085   Storage on public property prohibited
   
71.086   Police Department granted certain authority
   
71.087   Removal of prohibited cars and other personal property
   
71.088   Review by Board of Commissioners
   
71.089   Failure to pay enforced by court appearance
   
71.090   Handicapped parking spaces provided
Signs, Signals, and Traffic Control Devices
   
71.105   Signals
   
71.106   Flag or light at end of load
   
71.107   Unauthorized signs prohibited
   
71.108   Interference with signs and signals prohibited
   
71.109   Traffic control signal legend
   
71.110   Enforcement
Pedestrians
   
71.125   Pedestrians’ right-of-way
   
71.126   Crossing street
   
71.127   Pedestrians’ rights and duties at controlled intersections
   
71.128   Pedestrians shall obey traffic signals
   
71.129   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
71.130   Crossing at right angles
   
71.131   Skating on sidewalks
 
   
71.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to set forth certain laws and regulations
applicable to traffic, parking, and other areas of public concern and safety
therefor, violations of which shall be enforceable within the city and one mile
thereof.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments
or public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Police
Chief.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway when 50% or more of
the frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by
buildings in use for business.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation of curb and property lines at intersections or any other portion
of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
marking on the surface.
   CURB. The extreme edge of a roadway.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. Every way or place of whatever nature opened to use of
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular travel. The term
HIGHWAY or STREET shall not be deemed to include a roadway or driveway upon
grounds owned by private persons, colleges, universities, or other
institutions.
   INTERSECTIONS. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then of the lateral boundary lines of two or more streets or
highways which join one another at an angle whether or not one such street or
highway crosses the other; but such area in the case of the point where an
alley and a street meet shall not be deemed an INTERSECTION.
   LANED STREET. Any street, the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicle traffic.
   LOADING ZONE. The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle designed to travel on not more than three
wheels in contact with the ground, except any such vehicle as may be included
with the term “tractor” as herein defined.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. All signals, not inconsistent with this chapter,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of directing, warning, or regulating traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS. All signs and markings, other than signals, not
inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by a public body or official
having jurisdiction, for the purpose of guiding, directing, warning, or
regulating traffic.
   OPERATOR or DRIVER. Any person who is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or, in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for conditional sale or lease thereof
with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in the
agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the conditional
vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of vehicle is entitled to
possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgager shall be deemed
the OWNER for the purpose of this chapter.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon a
roadway or street otherwise than temporarily, for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading or in obedience to traffic regulations
or traffic signs or signals.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person who goes or travels on foot or who travels with the
assistance of a wheelchair.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not opens to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of this immediate use of the street or highway.
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway between the regularly
established curb lines or that part devoted to vehicular traffic.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set aside within a street or
highway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is so plainly marked or
indicated by proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart
as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in
conjunction with a motor vehicle that some part of its own weight and that of
its own load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a highway or street between the curb lines and
adjacent property lines.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device using colored lights, or words, or any
combination thereof whether manually, electrically, or mechanically operated,
by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to protect.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motor power designed for carrying property or
passenger wholly on its own structure and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   TRUCK. Any motor vehicle used for carrying goods and/or materials which have
a box or cargo box exceeding six feet in width and/or has a total length of
over 26 feet, including any permanently attached or removable trailers or cargo
boxes.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   VEHICLE or MOTOR VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting
devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or
tracks; provided that, for the purpose of this chapter, a bicycle or a ridden
animal shall be deemed a VEHICLE.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.003 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General provisions. No person shall drive any vehicle on a highway,
street, or alley located in this city at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing or at speeds in excess of those
fixed by this chapter or established by the Board of Commissioners as
hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Speed limits.
      (1)   Where no special hazard exists on any section of a highway, street,
or alley which section is not zoned and posted by action of the Board of
Commissioners, the following speeds shall be lawful, but any speed in excess of
said limits shall be unlawful, and shall be prima facie evidence that the speed
is not reasonable or prudent:
         (a)   Fifteen mph when passing a school zone when children are
present, when at school during school recess or while go to or leaving school
during opening or closing hours, or during the hours of an organized event or
when children are going to or leaving an organized event; and
         (b)   Twenty mph speed limit on all city streets.
      (2)   The speed limits set out in this section shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles when responding to emergency calls provided that
drivers thereof sound audible signals by siren or horn and red lights are
displayed.
      (3)   This provision shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street nor shall it protect the driver of any such vehicle
from the consequence of a reckless disregard of safety of others.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS IN EVENT OF AN ACCIDENT.
   (A)   Duty to stop. The driver of any vehicle involved in any accident
resulting in injury or death to a person or damage to property shall
immediately stop and give her or his name, address, and the registration number
of her or his vehicle; exhibit her or his registration receipt to the person
struck or the driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with; and shall
render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including
the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for medical treatment if
it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or is requested by the injured
person.
   (B)   Striking unattended vehicle. The driver of any vehicle which collides
with any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and
there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the
name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended
vehicle or shall leave, in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck, a written
notice giving the name and address the driver and of the owner of the vehicle
doing the striking and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
   (C)   Duty upon striking fixtures. The driver of any vehicle involved in an
accident resulting only in damage to fixtures or other property legally upon or
adjacent to a street shall take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner
or person in charge of such property of such fact and of her or his name and
address and of the registration number of the vehicle she or he is driving.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.005 BICYCLES.
   (A)   No interference with pedestrians. No person shall ride or propel any
bicycle upon any public street, highway, or alley in such a manner as to
interfere with any pedestrian thereon.
   (B)   Traffic laws shall be obeyed. Any person riding or propelling any
bicycle shall observe all traffic laws, regulations, and traffic signs.
   (C)   Lighting required. No bicycle shall be permitted on any public street,
highway, alley, sidewalk, or boulevard of the city during the period from a
half hour after sunset to a half hour before sunrise, and at any other time
when there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible any person on
said public street, highway, alley, or sidewalk at a distance of 200 feet ahead
unless said bicycle is equipped with:
      (1)   A lighted lamp on the front thereof visible under normal atmosphere
conditions from a distance of at least 300 feet in front of such bicycle; and
      (2)   A reflex mirror lamp on the rear exhibiting a yellow or red light
visible under like conditions from a distance of 200 feet to the rear of said
bicycle.
   (D)   No hitching rides. No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle,
coaster wagon, sled, roller skates, or any other similar vehicle shall attach
the same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any public street or
highway, or to hold on to such moving vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 71.020 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon a highway or street in this
city unless such person holds a license which legally entitles said person to
use the highways of the state.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.021 UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   No person who is in an intoxicated condition, or under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs, shall drive or operate, or attempt to
drive or operate, any motor vehicle or other vehicle upon any of the public
highways, streets, alleys, or public grounds of the city.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.022 STOP REQUIREMENTS FOR RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   If any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade crossing
and a clearly visible or audible signal gives warning of the immediate approach
of a railway train or car, she or he shall bring such vehicle to a complete
stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such
railroad and may not proceed until she or he can do so safely.
   (B)   (1)   If any person driving a vehicle of any kind carrying school
children, passengers for hire, explosives, or inflammable liquids approaches a
railroad grade crossing, she or he shall bring such vehicle to a complete stop
within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad
and may not proceed until she or he can do so safely.
      (2)   Said requirement to stop shall apply with or without the presence
of a signal giving warning.
   (C)   (1)   If any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing designated by stop signs, she or he shall bring such vehicle to a
complete stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of
such railroad and may not proceed until he or she can do so safely.
      (2)   Said requirement to stop shall apply with or without the presence
of a signal giving warning.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.023 DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF HIGHWAY.
   Upon all highways of sufficient width, except upon one-way streets, the
driver of a vehicle shall drive the same upon the right half of the highway and
shall drive a slow moving vehicle as closely as possible to the right-hand edge
or curb of such highway, unless it is impracticable to travel on such side of
the highway and except when overtaking and passing another vehicle subject to
the limitations applicable in overtaking and passing set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.024 MEETING OF VEHICLES.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, each giving the other at least one-half of the main traveling
portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.025 OVERTAKING A VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction on a two-lane street shall pass at a safe distance to the left
thereof, or, on a four-lane street, shall pass at a safe distance in the lane
for traffic going the same direction as the overtaken vehicle but not being
used by the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not deviate from his or her direct line
of travel without ascertaining that such movement can be made with safely to
other vehicles approaching from the rear and about to overtake and pass such
first mentioned vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.026 LIMITATION OF PRIVILEGE OF OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not drive to the left side of the
center line of a highway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding
in the same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of
oncoming traffic for sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and
passing to be made safely.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall not overtake and pass any other
vehicle proceeding in the same direction at any railroad grade crossing not at
any intersection of highways or streets unless permitted to do so by a law
enforcement officer; provided, however, that a driver of a vehicle may overtake
and pass on the right of another vehicle proceeding in the same direction at an
intersection where a traffic holding lane is clearly marked eighter by signs or
lines on the roadway.
   (C)   The driver of any vehicle shall not overtake and pass any other
vehicle proceeding in the same direction when traveling in a no passing zone on
any highway, street, or bridge when either marked by signs or lines on any
highway, street, or bridge.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.027 DRIVER TO GIVE WAY TO OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle upon a highway or street about to be overtaken and
passed by another vehicle approaching from the rear shall give way to the right
in favor of the overtaking vehicle on suitable and audible signal being given
the driver of the overtaking vehicle, and shall not increase the speed of his
or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.028 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard to the speed of such vehicles
and the traffic upon and condition of the highway or street.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.029 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the right at an
intersection shall approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to
the right-hand side of the highway, and in turning shall keep as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the highway or street, and when
intending to turn to the left shall approach such intersection in the lane for
traffic to the right of and nearest to the center line of the highway or street
and in turning shall pass beyond the center of the intersection, passing as
closely as practicable to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the
left.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall
mean the meeting point of the medial lines of the highway or streets
intersecting one another.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners may authorize the Police Chief to modify
the foregoing methods of turning at intersections by clearing indicating by
buttons, markers, or other directions signs installed within an intersection
the course to be followed by vehicles turning thereat, and it shall be unlawful
for any driver to fail to turn in a manner as so directed.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   (1)   When to vehicles approach or enter an intersection at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right except as otherwise specifically
provided by this chapter.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall
forfeit any right-of-way which he or she might otherwise have hereunder.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to
the left shall yield the right- of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded and having
given a signal when and as required by this chapter, may make such left turn
and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from said
opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left
turn.
   (C)   The driver of any vehicle upon a street or highway shall yield the
right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing such highway or street within any clearly
marked crosswalk or any regular pedestrian crossing included in the
prolongation of the lateral boundary lines of the adjacent sidewalk at the end
of a block, except at intersections where the movement of traffic is being
regulated by traffic officers or traffic directions devices.
   (D)   (1)   At intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control
signals or law enforcement, drivers of vehicles, including those marking turns,
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians crossing or those who have started
to cross the roadway on a “green” or “go” signal, and in all other cases,
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles lawfully proceeding
directly ahead on a “green” or “go” signal.
      (2)   Every pedestrian crossing a highway or street at any point other
than a pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-
of-way to vehicles upon the highway or street.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.031 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle about to enter or cross a public highway or
street from a private road of driveway or alley shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on such public highway or street.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway or street shall yield the
right-of-way to Police and Fire Department vehicles when the latter are
operated upon official business and ambulances and the drivers thereof sound
audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle.
      (2)   The provisions above shall not operate to relieve the driver of a
Police or Fire Department vehicle or ambulance from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the highway, nor shall it protect
the driver of any such vehicle from the consequence of an arbitrary exercise of
such right-of-way.
   (C)   (1)   Highway or street maintainers in the performance of their duties
of maintaining the highway shall have the preference of right-of-way and shall
be permitted to drive upon the left-hand side of the traveled portion of the
highway or street for the purpose of dumping materials, for repairing said
highway or street, and also for smoothing the road surface.
      (2)   Such highway or street maintainer shall not indiscriminately block
traffic, but shall allow reasonable room on the traveled portion of the highway
for other vehicles to pass.
      (3)   Such highway or street maintainer shall not, however, be bound by
the rules herein provided to turn to the right when meeting other vehicles or
allowing them to pass when her or his work requires her or him to remain on the
other side of the traveled portion of the highway.
      (4)   Such maintainers shall not in any way interfere with the traffic on
said highway unless absolutely necessary, and shall take all proper precautions
to provide for the safety and protection of the users of such a highway,
including proper warning of such repair or maintenance work.
      (5)   However, such maintainers shall be subject to the rules of travel
as herein provided, except when the performance of their maintenance work
requires them to do otherwise.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.032 REQUIREMENTS ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter and
laws of the state, or of a law enforcement vehicle properly and lawfully making
use of an audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall
immediately drive to a position as near as possible and parallel to the right-
hand edge or curb of the highway or street, or, in case of a one-way highway
the nearest edge or curb, clear of any intersection of highways or streets, and
shall stop and remain in such position unless otherwise directed by law
enforcement officer or until the authorized emergency vehicle shall have
passed.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.033 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not at any time drive through or over a
safety zone as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.034 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall when driving a vehicle upon a down grade upon any highway
coast with the gears of said vehicle in neutral.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.035 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK, BIKE PATH, INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle within any sidewalk or bike path
area except at a permanent or temporary driveway or alley, or except as may be
specifically allowed in this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall back any vehicle around a corner at an intersection,
or into an intersection of public streets.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.036 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any highway, street, or alley in a
careless and/or heedless manner in disregard of the rights or safety of others,
or without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as
to endanger or likely endanger any person or property.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.037 CARELESS DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any highway, street, or alley of this
city carelessly and without due caution, at a speed or in a manner so as to
endanger or likely endanger any person or property, but not amounting to
reckless driving in this chapter.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.038 U-TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   At any intersection where traffic is controlled by traffic control
signals or by law enforcement officer, or where warned by an official traffic
control sign displaying the words “no U-turn” or “no left turn,” no person
shall operate turn any vehicle at the intersection so as to proceed in the
opposite direction.
   (B)   Vehicles making a lawful U-turn at any intersection shall grant the
right-of-way to all vehicles and motor vehicles approaching and entering such
intersection for any purpose other making a U-turn.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.039 U-TURN PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make a U-turn by operating a motor vehicle in the middle of
a block to change direction of travel or to obtain parking on the opposite side
of the roadway, or at any other place other than at an intersection where said
U-turns are not prohibited.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.040 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any truck, other than pickups pulling tandem
or fifth-wheel stock trailers, equipped with more than three axles, to travel
or park upon any street in the city unless such street is a designated truck
route, or unless it is necessary to travel or park upon such streets to pick up
or make delivery of merchandise or material for a legitimate business purpose.
   (B)   In determining whether a truck is equipped with more than three axles,
the number of axles on the truck and the number of axles on any trailer which
the truck is pulling shall be added together.
   (C)   If a detour should be posted around the streets included in the truck
route, the detour shall constitute a part of the truck route.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.041 SLOW DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle at an unnecessarily slow rate of speed as
to hinder or retard traffic.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.042 STEALING RIDES AND TRAILING SLEDS.
   No person shall cause to be attached or to permit any sled of any kind
occupied by children to be trailed behind any vehicle, and no person shall
ride, trespass upon, seize hold of, or drag, slide, or in any manner trail
behind any vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.043 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   No person shall drive a vehicle within the limits of the city in such a
manner that creates or causes unnecessary engine noise, or tire squeal, skid,
or slide upon acceleration or stopping or that simulates a temporary race, or
that causes the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.044 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, stand, or park a vehicle on any street for
the purpose of commercial advertising. Advertisements relating to the business
for which a vehicle is used may be put upon a motor vehicle when such vehicle
is in use for normal delivery or business purpose, and not merely or mainly for
the purpose of commercial advertising.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provision of division (A) above, buses and taxi
cabs, operated for hire or at no charge, and law enforcement and emergency
vehicles may display commercial advertisements on the exterior surface area of
said vehicles.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
CONDITION OF VEHICLES
§ 71.055 RESTRICTIONS ON TIRE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway or street shall have on its
periphery any block, stud, flange, clear, or spike, or any protuberances of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire except that is shall be permissible to use tire chains of
reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of
snow, ice, or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid;
provided, however, notwithstanding anything therein to the contrary, it shall
be lawful to operate upon the highways and streets of this city motor vehicles
equipped with pneumatic tires in which there are embedded metal studs or wires
of tungsten steel or other similar material.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may in its discretion issue special permits
authorizing the operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having
movable tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable
tacks or farm tractors or other farm machinery.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.056 BRAKES.
   (A)   Any combination of motor vehicle trailers, semitrailers, or other
vehicles shall be equipped with brakes upon one or more of such vehicles
adequate to stop such combinations of vehicles within the distance specified
for motor vehicles under regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Any motorcycle and bicycle with motor attached when operated upon a
highway or street shall be provided with at least one brake which may be
operated by hand or foot.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.057 HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with a horn in good working order capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of at least 200 feet.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful, except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
for any vehicle equipped with or for any person to use upon a vehicle any
siren, any compression or spark plug whistle, or any exhaust horn or whistle
which does not produce a harmonious sound, or for any person at any time to use
otherwise than a reasonable warning or to make any unnecessary or unreasonable
loud or harsh sound by means of a horn or other warning device.
   (B)   Any Police and Fire Department and fire patrol vehicle and any
ambulance used for emergency calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren, or
exhaust whistle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.058 MIRRORS REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway which vehicle is so constructed
or leaded as to prevent the driver form obtaining a view of the highway to the
rear by looking backward from the driver’s position, unless such vehicle is
equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the
highway for a distance of at 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.059 WINDSHIELDS SHALL BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a highway with any sign,
poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield, side wings,
side, or rear windows of such motor vehicle other than a certificate or other
paper required to be so displayed by law or other than temporary driving
instruction placed thereon by the manufacturer.
   (B)   One person shall drive any vehicle upon a highway or street with any
object dangling between the view of the driver and the windshield of said
vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.060 PREVENTION OF NOISE, SMOKE, AND REGULATION OF MUFFLER CUT-OUTS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle on a highway or street unless such
motor vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke.
   (B)   No person shall use a muffler cut-out on any vehicle upon a highway or
street.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway or street unless
such vehicle is so constructed or leaded as to prevent its contents from
dripping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.061 REQUIRED LIGHTING EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES.
   Each motor vehicle on a highway during the period from sunset to sunrise and
at any other time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly
discernible any person on the highway at a distance of two hundred feet ahead,
shall be equipped with lighted front and rear lamps for the different classes
of motor vehicles as respectively required in SDCL §§ 32-17-1 to 32-17-26,
inclusive. If a motor vehicle is parked or stopped on a highway, such motor
vehicle shall be equipped with lighted front and rear lamps as required in SDCL
§ 32-17-27. A violation of this section is a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(SDCL 32-17-4) (Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.062 OBSTRUCTION OF OPERATOR’S VIEW OF DRIVING MECHANISM.
   No person shall drive any vehicle when:
   (A)   There are in the front seat of the vehicles more than three adult
persons; or
   (B)   In any other manner it is so loaded so as to obstruct the view of the
operator to the front or sides, or to interfere with the operator’s control
over the driving mechanism of such vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARKING AND STORAGE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 71.075 VEHICLES SHALL STOP AT CERTAIN THROUGH HIGHWAYS OR STREETS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall be authorizing the placement of octagonal-
shaped stop signs and determine at what intersections vehicles shall come to a
complete stop. No person shall fail to obey said signs by failing to bring the
vehicle to a complete stop.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.076 VEHICLES SHALL YIELD AT CERTAIN THROUGH HIGHWAYS OR STREETS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall, by authorizing the placement of
triangular-shaped yield right-of-way signs, determine at what intersections
certain vehicle shall have a preferential right-of-way.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in obedience to
such sign slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, or shall
stop, if necessary, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian legally
crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving, and to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Said driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to the vehicle so proceeding.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.077 PARKING OR STOPPING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   The Police Department may designate under the authority and directions
of the Board of Commissioners by proper signs as no parking and, wherever said
Police Department has so designated no parking, it shall be unlawful for any
person to fail to comply therewith.
   (B)   On all other highways or streets in the city not otherwise designated
by foregoing or succeeding sections, or by the Police Department as directed by
this Board of Commissioners, all vehicles shall be parked parallel with the
curb.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.078 DIAGONAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any vehicle parked diagonally shall be drawn up to the curb, gutter, or
sidewalk on the right-hand side of the street at an angle of 45 degrees with
the curb line thereof, such vehicle to be parked within six inches of the curb,
gutter, or sidewalk on and along said street upon which such vehicle is parked,
and no vehicle shall nearer than one foot to any other vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.079 PARALLEL PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any vehicle parked parallel shall be drawn up parallel to the curb, gutter,
or sidewalk on the right-hand side of the street, the hub of both wheels on the
right-hand side of the vehicle to be within one foot of the curb, gutter, or
sidewalk on and along the street upon which such vehicles are parked, and no
vehicle shall be parked nearer than three feet of the front or rear of any
other vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.080 STOPPING IN ALLEYS AND PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS.
   Any driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk area extending
across any alleyway.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.081 PARKING AND STOPPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person operating a vehicle shall stop, stand, or park such vehicle
on any of the following places except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal:
      (1)   Within an intersection;
      (2)   On the boulevard;
      (3)   On a crosswalk;
      (4)   In front of a private driveway;
      (5)   On a sidewalk;
      (6)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (7)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
      (8)   Within three feet of a fire hydrant;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of the point of intersection of curb lines;
      (10)   At a designated loading or passenger zone;
      (11)   At a designated taxicab stand or bus stand;
      (12)   Any no parking zone which may be designated by signs or by curb
which is painted with a solid yellow stripe;
      (13)   In public alley within the city limits, except that trucks and
other vehicles may stop in such alleys for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials;
      (14)   On the roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of a street except temporarily engaged in the loading or unloading
of passengers or materials;
      (15)   On the highways, streets, and alleys of the city in such a manner
as to obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or
      (16)   On grass or lawn areas that do not meet the hard surfacing
requirements.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any
vehicle in a stall or a space designated for physically handicapped persons, if
such stall or space is posted or marked in a prescribed way, unless the vehicle
displays distinguishing license plates or place cards issued for handicapped
persons, including disabled veterans.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010; Ord. passed 9-19-2019) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.082 PARKING; SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   In order that the Street Department may efficiently clean the
streets and highways in the city, the Police Department or the person in charge
of the cleaning of the streets is hereby authorized to place signs in any block
or blocks within said city stating that snow removal will made at a specified
time in the near future, in which case it shall be unlawful to park any motor
vehicle upon any of the said streets or highways upon which said signs have
been placed during the specified time.
      (2)   Such signs shall be placed at the end of each of said blocks to
clean.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked in violation of any of the provisions of this
section may be removed by the Police Department or the Street Department and
the owner thereof, in addition to the other penalties prescribed for the
violation of this section, shall be required to pay the cost of towing and
removal of said vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.083 ACCUMULATION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY OR JUNK ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall store, deposit, maintain or permit to be maintained, or
accumulate upon any public right-of-way ,any personal property including but
not limited to the following:
   (A)   Garbage, refuse waste, rubbish;
   (B)   Any vehicle that is abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative,
including any vehicle with flat tires, missing wheels, and the like;
   (C)   Any vehicle which is non-licensed or because of body damage, or
operating apparatus, including tires and wheels, is in such a condition to
render the start, legal operation, or use of said vehicle impossible; and
   (D)   Any dead animal remaining on any public property for a period of more
than 24 hours.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.084 FIRES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ignite any bonfire or campfire on public property.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.085 STORAGE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall, unless specifically authorized by the Police
Department, store or permit to be stored any trailer, recreational vehicle,
implement, vehicle, or other personal property on any public right-of-way.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the term STORE shall include the
following:
      (1)   Leaving any car, pick up, motorcycle, camper, or recreational
vehicle in any public right- of-way for more that five consecutive days; and
      (2)   Leaving any farm tractor, implement, trailer, truck, or truck
tractor in any public right-of- way for more than 24 hours.
   (C)   Any trailer, recreational vehicle, implement, vehicle, or other
personal property being stored in violation of this section shall be
immediately removed from the right-of-way and may not be continued to be stored
by moving said property to another location in any public right-of-way.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.086 POLICE DEPARTMENT GRANTED CERTAIN AUTHORITY.
   The Police Department shall have the power to authorize the storage of any
vehicle or trailer in the public right-of-way upon request of an owner in the
event that he or she proves to the Police Department that:
   (A)   Storage is necessary for a specific, temporary period of time at a
certain location;
   (B)   The vehicle or trailer is being used in connection with a construction
repair, clean up project, or another event deemed appropriate by the Police
Department; and
   (C)   The event is associated with real property adjacent to or closely
located to the area of the public right-of-way where the vehicle or trailer
will be temporarily stored.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.087 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITED CARS AND OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any vehicle or trailer located upon public property in violation of
this chapter or any traffic ordinance of the city may be summarily removed by
the Police Department. The owner of the removed vehicle, in addition to any
fines and penalties which may be imposed for such violation, shall pay the
charges for towing and storage of the removed vehicle.
   (B)   Any personal property located on any public property in violation of
this chapter may be summarily removed by the Police Department. The owner or
person responsible for the violation, in addition to any fines and penalties
which may be imposed for such violation, shall pay any costs incurred for the
removal of the personal property.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.088 REVIEW BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Any person having received a notice of violation from the Police
Department made under this chapter shall be entitled to have said decision/
action reviewed by the Board of Commissioners. The process shall be as follows.
      (1)   An aggrieved person shall request a review with the Police
Department by filing out a written request form to be provided by the Police
Department.
      (2)   Upon completion of said form, the Police Department shall place the
review upon the agenda for the Board of Commissioners meeting.
      (3)   The Police Department shall provide written notice to the person
requesting the review specifying the time, date, and location of the meeting.
      (4)   The Board of Commissioners may notify the aggrieved person of its
decision following the meeting; however, the Board of Commissioners shall issue
a written decision to the person within 20 days of the meeting.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be constructed to deprive any person of
her or his constitutional right a hearing or trail as to any violation charged.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.089 FAILURE TO PAY ENFORCEMENT BY COURT APPEARANCE.
   Upon failure of any person to pay any violation fee or fine within the time
periods indicated, the city may request a summons from the magistrate court
requiring said person to appear in court to answer for the violation.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.090 HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES PROVIDED.
   The Board of Commissioners may, by resolution, designate certain parking
spaces within the regulated parking district established herein as parking for
the handicapped only. These spaces shall be clearly designated by posting of
signs designating them as handicapped parking spaces only. Only a vehicle which
is operated by a disabled person, or a vehicle in which a disabled person is
riding and which bears a sticker issued by the state certifying that the owner
or operator of this vehicle is a disabled person, shall be allowed to park in
these handicapped designated parking spaces. The fact that the vehicle bears a
sticker issued by the state certifying that the owner or operator of the
vehicle is a disabled person shall not exempt the person operating the vehicle
from complying with the parking time limit restrictions provided for in this
chapter.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.105 SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle upon a highway or street, before starting,
stopping, or turning from a direct line, shall first see that such movement can
be made in safety; if any pedestrian may be affected by such movement, shall
give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn; and, whenever the operation
of any other vehicle may be affected by such movement, shall give a signal as
required in this section plainly visible to the driver of such other vehicle of
the intention to make such movement.
   (B)   The signal herein required shall be given by means of the hand and arm
in the manner herein specified, or by an approved mechanical or electrical
signal device such as signal lamp or lamps, except that when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent the hand and arm signal from being visible
both to the front and rear, then said signals must be given by such a lamp or
lamps or signal device.
   (C)   Whenever the signal is given by means of the hand and arm, the driver
shall indicate his or her intention to start, stop, or turn by extending the
hand and arm from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such
signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.106 FLAG OR LIGHT AT END OF LOAD.
   Whenever the load on any vehicle shall extend more than four feet beyond the
rear of the bed or body thereof, there shall be displayed, at the end of such
load in such position as to be clearly visible at all times form the rear of
such load, a red flag not less than 12 inches both in length and width except
that between one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, there
shall be displayed at the end of any such load a red light plainly visible
under normal atmospheric conditions at least 200 feet from the rear of such
vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.107 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall erect or maintain upon any highway any
warning or direction sign, marker, signal, or light in imitation of any
official sign, maker, signal, or light erected under the provisions of this
chapter, and no person shall erect or maintain upon any highway any traffic or
highway sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the erection of
signs, markers, or signals bearing thereon the name of an organization
authorized to erect the same by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.108 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall willfully deface, injure, move, obstruct, or interfere with
any official traffic signs or signal as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.109 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words “go” or “stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights successively one
at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used and said
terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may precede straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or to be crossing the intersection when the red of
“stop” signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway and any pedestrian then staring to cross
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Steady red alone or “stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain until green or “go” is shown alone,
except as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When the Board of Commissioners may permit, the driver of a vehicle
which is stopped as close as practicable at entrance to the crosswalk and to
the far right side of the roadway, then at the entrance to the intersection in
obedience to red or stop signal, may make a right turn, but shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians and other traffic proceeding as directed by signal
at said intersection. Such Board of Commissioners action permitting a right
turn after a stop when facing a steady red light alone shall be effective when
a sign is erected at such intersecting giving notice thereof.
   (D)   Steady red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
      (3)   In the event of official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application.
      (4)   Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
      (5)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
   (E)   Flashing red. When a red lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent
flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk
at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if none, then before
entering the intersection, and the light to proceed shall be subject to the
rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (F)   Flashing yellow.
      (1)   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermitted flashes,
drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or past such signal
only with caution.
      (2)   This section shall not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct
of drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossing shall be governed
elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.110 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Regardless of all traffic signs, any driver of a motor vehicle shall
obey traffic directions personally given by a law enforcement officer who is
clearly identified as a law enforcement officer.
   (B)   Any willful failure to obey said directions shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
PEDESTRIANS
§ 71.125 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked
crosswalk at the end of a block except at intersections where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by law enforcement officer or traffic control
signals.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, it shall be unlawful
for the operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear to overtake and
pass such stopped vehicle.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.126 CROSSING STREETS.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any point other than within a marked
or unmarked crosswalk in the business district as defined in this chapter or on
any federal highway.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.127 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHTS AND DUTIES AT CONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever stop signals or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or a marked crosswalk between intersections, any pedestrian shall
have the right-of-way over drivers of vehicles of vehicles and at such marked
places drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk and
any pedestrian within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway
shall have the right-of- way over any vehicle so stopped.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk
when any vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped as such crosswalk
for a purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 71.128 PEDESTRIANS SHALL OBEY TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   At intersections where traffic is directed by a law enforcement officer or
stop and go signals, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the
roadway other than with released traffic and pedestrians shall obey all traffic
signals and directions.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.129 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.130 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.131 SKATING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No people shall roller skate, roller blade, or operate any skateboard,
wagon, scooter, or similar device upon any sidewalks in the city’s parks or
public property where signs are posted prohibiting such activities.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is a Class II
misdemeanor punishable by the maximum punishment set forth by the laws of the
state pursuant of SDCL § 22-6-2. Fines for violations of the provisions of this
chapter will be issued by the city in accordance with the general penalty
provision in §
10.99. Said punishment may also include payment of any costs and/or restitution
authorized by this chapter and/or state law.
   (B)   A person convicted of violating §
71.081 shall be punished by a mandatory fine of not less than $100. The Police
Department is hereby authorized to remove any vehicle at the expense of the
owner of the vehicle from stall or a space designated for physically
handicapped persons, if the vehicle is parked in violation of the above
provisions.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to the cost of removal and/or storage and assessment
of any charges related thereto, any person who violates this chapter, except in
the event where the violation involves parking a vehicle in a stall or space
designated for physically handicapped persons, shall, within 72 hours from the
time when the notice of violation was attached to the vehicle, pay to the city
the sum of $10. If any person fails to pay sum within 72 hours, he or she shall
pay to the city the sum of $20.
      (2)   Any person who parks a vehicle in a stall or space designated for
physically handicapped persons as prohibited by the chapter shall, within 72
hours from the time when the notice of violation was attached to the vehicle,
pay to the city the sum $100. If any person fails to pay the sum within 72
hours, he or she shall pay to city the sum of $110.
(Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2010; Ord. 2023-15, passed 7-20-2023)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LITTERING
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   INOPERABLE, ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   RECREATION
      
96.   FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: LITTERING
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Throwing or depositing in or upon streets, sidewalks, or public or
private places
   
90.03   Sweeping into gutters, streets, or other public places
   
90.04   Litter not contained prohibited
   
90.05   Hauling
   
90.06   Construction sites
   
90.07   Loading or unloading options
   
90.08   Distribution of handbills
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the storage,
distribution, handling, preparation, and cooking and consumption of food.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter; any sample, dodger, circular,
leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet; or any printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copy of any matter of literature.
   LITTER. Any quantity garbage, trash, refuse, rubbish, debris, or other waste
material including, but not limited to, cans, bottles, jars, treated or
untreated paper, wrappings, ashes, cigarettes, cardboard, rags, yard clippings,
leaves, grass, wood, glass, crockery, dead animals, scrap metal, salvaged
metal, and motor vehicle parts that are not in a container.
   LITTER TO BE CONTAINED. Any litter which is not enclosed within a building
or placed securely in a container designed or reasonably adapted for use as a
place for storing litter for the purpose of collection for disposal.
(Prior Code, § 92.01)
§ 90.02 THROWING OR DEPOSITING IN OR UPON STREETS, SIDEWALKS, OR PUBLIC OR
PRIVATE PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any litter in or upon any street, sidewalk,
or other public place or any private property except in public or private
containers designed and intended for the collection of litter. Persons placing
litter in such containers shall do so in such manner as to prevent its being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public
place or private property.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 SWEEPING INTO GUTTERS, STREETS, OR OTHER PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the municipality any accumulation of litter from any building or
lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 LITTER NOT CONTAINED PROHIBITED.
   Any person being the owner, tenant, or person in control of any private
property shall at all times maintain the premises free of litter that is not
contained.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 HAULING.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle unless such vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents, or litter from
falling, being blown, or otherwise being deposited upon any street, alley,
other public place, or any private property.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   No person being the owner or person in charge of any property upon
which a structure is being constructed or demolished shall permit the
accumulation of litter that is not contained upon such property or permit
litter therefrom to become blown or scattered upon such property or any
property or public place.
   (B)   No person being the owner of any property upon which a structure is
being constructed or demolished shall fail to provide adequate containers to
hold all litter produced upon such property or otherwise appearing thereon.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Unauthorized use of city garbage containers/unauthorized dumping, see §
92.073
§ 90.07 LOADING OR UNLOADING OPTIONS.
   No person owning or having charge of any premises upon which objects or
materials are being loaded upon or unloaded from any vehicle or other device
for conveyance shall permit any litter that is not contained resulting from
such loading or unloading to accumulate upon such property or to be blown or
scattered upon such property or any other property or public place.
(Prior Code, § 92.07) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any street,
sidewalk, wall, pole, or public place, nor shall any person throw, deposit, or
place any handbill upon any vehicle without the specific and immediate consent
of the person having charge of such vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit the handing out of handbills to
persons willing to receive such handbill.
(Prior Code, § 92.08) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter may be punishable by not more
than 30 days in jail or a fine not to exceed $500 or both.
(Prior Code, § 92.99)
Statutory reference:
Maximum penalty, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Scope and purpose
   
91.002   Definitions
   
91.003   Certain animals prohibited
   
91.004   Exceptions
   
91.005   Animals to be impounded; redemption
   
91.006   Chemical immobilization
   
91.007   Dangerous animals
   
91.008   Enforcement
   
91.009   Exemptions
Dogs and Cats
   
91.020   Rabies certificate
   
91.021   Running at large
   
91.022   Impoundment and disposition
   
91.023   Redemption or destruction
   
91.024   Kennels
   
91.025   Dogs’ behavior
   
91.026   Defecation
   
91.027   Number of pets limited
Animal Cruelty
   
91.040   Cruelty to animals generally
   
91.041   Teasing and molesting
   
91.042   Killing, injuring, poisoning
   
91.043   Animal fights
   
91.044   Abandonment
Rabies Control
   
91.055   Impounding for observation
   
91.056   Keeping rabid animals
   
91.057   Report of suspected cases
Enforcement
   
91.070   Failure to comply with a warning ticket
   
91.071   Record keeping requirements
   
91.072   Payment of fees and charges
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the existence of animals with the
city to assure the safety of the public while also assuring the humane
treatment of animals within the city.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 91.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, bird, reptile, amphibian, or fish except humans.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person appointed to perform this duty as
provided by this chapter or any police or law enforcement officer of the city.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the action of the city for the
purpose of impounding and caring for all animals found to be in violation of
this chapter.
   APPOINTED DESIGNEE. Any person appointed by or employee of the city or, in
the case of a disaster or other emergency situation, any member of an animal
rescue or animal care group authorized by the city.
   AT LARGE. Any animal off the property of its owner and not under the
immediate control of a competent person.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal bitten by or has been exposed to any animal
know to or suspected of being infected with rabies.
   KENNEL. Any person or corporation engaged in the commercial business of
breeding, buying, selling, or boarding animals. This definition shall not apply
to the owner of only one breeding matron.
   LEASH. A cord, thong, or chain not more than ten feet in length by which a
dog is controlled by the person accompanying it. A dog in an automobile is
considered on the owner’s property.
   LIVESTOCK. This includes but is not limited to horses, mules, cattle, bison,
burros, llamas, alpacas, swine, sheep, and goats. Poultry includes but is not
limited to chickens, turkeys, game birds, peafowl, and ostriches.
   OWNER. Any person, groups of persons, or corporations owning, keeping, or
harboring an animal.
   RESTRAINT. An animal controlled by a leash, “at heel” beside a competent
person, and obedient to that person’s commands, in a vehicle, if attached to
said vehicle or confined inside of the vehicle, in such a manner as not to
allow it to reach outside the confines of that vehicle, or within a vehicle
being driven on the street or parked within the property limits of its owner or
keeper.
   SHELTER TECHNICIAN. Any person who is employed by the city to care for the
daily needs of food, water, and shelter of any animal impounded by the Animal
Control Officer.
   SPAYED FEMALE. A matron that has undergone surgery to prevent conception and
whose owner can provide suitable proof of said surgery.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010; Ord. 33.01C, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 91.003 CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow, bring, keep, or maintain, into or within the city,
whether under control or at large, any horse, cow, mule, swine, sheep, goats,
fowl (chickens), and pigeons except as otherwise provided in §
91.004.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010; Ord. 33.01D, passed 6-5-2014) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004 EXCEPTIONS.
   The animals mentioned in §
91.003 shall be allowed within the city only when:
   (A)   Livestock and poultry that are maintained and kept on properties zoned
agriculture and kept in fenced pastures;
   (B)   They are used or are part of a legally authorized circus, menagerie,
or carnival;
   (C)   They are used in or are part of a legally authorized parade, provided
that such animals shall only be allowed within the city for said purpose for
the length of time necessary to participate in said parade;
   (D)   They are in the process of being transported from one area outside of
the city to another, in which case they shall be in constant supervision and
control of the owner, manager, or driver and such transporting shall be done
with all due speed and care;
   (E)   They are on the premises of a duly licensed stock exchange, livestock
sale ring, or veterinarian hospital;
   (F)   They are part of a legally authorized livestock show or exhibition;
and
   (G)   They are animals of an exotic nature. There shall be no more than one
such species on any premises and the owner shall have received prior approval
of the Board of Commissioners and Animal Control Officer before the animal is
allowed on premises with a time frame on when the species is to be removed from
the city.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 91.005 ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED; REDEMPTION.
   It shall be the duly of the Animal Control Officer to impound any animal
found in violation of the provisions of this chapter, and any persons claiming
any animal so impounded shall pay the shelter and city any fees or fines before
its discharge from the animal shelter.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 91.006 CHEMICAL IMMOBILIZATION.
   The Animal Control Officer or her or his duly appointed designee is hereby
authorized to use, operate, and possess such devices that are designated to
propel projectiles for the purpose of intermuscular injection of drugs used in
the humane capture of animals. Any person using the above-described devices
shall have specialized training in the use of the device; any and all
departmental policies concerning the device; and in the drugs, in the proper
use of the drugs, and in the care of the animal after such drugs have been
injected.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 91.007 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or maintain, run at
large, or display in a crowded area within the city any animal of a venomous,
vicious, ferocious, or dangerous habit, nature, or disposition. Any such found
running at large within the city may be impounded or disposed of by the Animal
Control Officer. All persons or organizations authorized by the city are
excluded from this provision.
   (B)   An animal may be declared to be a vicious animal by the Police Chief
under the following:
      (1)   An animal which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches in
apparent attitude of attack, or bites, inflicts, injury, assaults, or otherwise
attacks a person or other animal upon any public ground or place.
      (2)   An animal which on private property in a vicious or terrifying
manner approaches in apparent attitude of attack, or bites, inflects injury, or
otherwise attacks a person or other animal who is on private property by reason
of permission of the owner or occupant of such property or who is on private
property by reason of course of dealing with the owner or occupant of such
property.
      (3)   Any animal of a known propensity, tendency, or otherwise threaten
the safety of human beings or animals.
      (4)   No animal may be declared vicious if the injury or damage is
sustained to any person or animal who was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting
the animal or who was trespassing on the property by committing or attempting
to commit a crime.
      (5)   When the Police Chief declares an animal to be vicious, the officer
shall notify the owner of such declaration in writing that such animal must be
registered as a vicious animal. Said notice shall be served either in person or
by mailing such notice by certified mail.
   (C)   The owner of an animal that has been declared vicious shall make
application to Police Chief to register said vicious animal and shall comply
with the following.
      (1)   Annually renew a vicious animal application at a fee of $75.
      (2)   Maintain $250,000 in liability insurance.
      (3)   The owner of the animal shall notify the Police Department of any
changes in the following:
         (a)   Ownership of the animal.
         (b)   Name, address, and telephone number of a new owner.
         (c)   Address change of the owner or any change in where the animal is
housed.
         (d)   Any change in the health status of the animal or death of the
animal.
      (4)   If the animal is outdoors and attended, the animal shall be
muzzled, on a leash no longer than four feet, and under the control of a person
over the age of 18 years of age.
      (5)   If the animal is outdoors and unattended, the animal must be locked
in an escape-proof kennel approved by the city with the following conditions:
         (a)   Fencing material shall not have openings with a diameter of more
than two inches.
         (b)   Any gates within such pen or structure shall be lockable and
such design to prevent the entry of children or escape of the animal.
         (c)   The pen or structure shall have secure sides and top. If the pen
or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded in
the ground or concrete.
         (d)   The pen or structure shall protect the animal from the elements.
         (e)   The pen or structure may be required to have a double exterior
wall to prevent the insertion of fingers or other objects.
         (f)   A universal sign denoting a vicious animal shall be displayed on
the pen or structure visible from the sidewalk/street.
         (g)   The kennel or structure shall be inspected annually by the
Police Department. A fee of $50 for the inspection will be the responsibility
of the owner.
         (h)   The owner of the animal shall present proof to the Police
Department that the animal has been altered to prevent reproduction.
         (i)   The vicious animal shall be impounded at the owner’s expense
until such time as the provisions of this chapter are complied with.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010; Ord. 2023-07, passed 7-20-2023) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.008 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the city’s Police
Department and its duly appointed Animal Control Officer or designees.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 91.009 EXEMPTIONS.
   Hospitals, clinics, and other premises operated by a licensed veterinarian
for the care and treatment of dogs or cats are exempt from provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 91.020 RABIES CERTIFICATE.
   Every person who keeps, maintains, or has in her or his control dog or cat
within the city shall have the dog or cat inoculated for the prevention of
rabies at least every two years with the modified live virus. It shall be the
duty of the owner of the dog or cat to place a collar around the neck of each
dog or cat so owned or kept by her or him which the metallic rabies tag
furnished by a licensed veterinarian shall be securely fastened. It shall be
unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any dog or cat over the age of six
months without obtaining the rabies certificate from a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.021 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   General. Any person who owns or who has under his or her care a dog or
cat shall not allow said dog or cat to run at large in the city, and said dog
or cat, when present within the city, shall be on a leash controlled by a
person, be properly secured to a leash which has been tied to an immovable
object, or be confined within an enclosure sufficient to keep said dog or cat
restrained from escaping such enclosure. No dog or cat shall be leashed to an
immovable object so as to permit the dog or cat to walk on or over any public
sidewalk, street, or property of another person other than that of the owner of
said dog or cat. Any dog or cat not confined by leash or enclosure as set forth
herein is hereby declared to the running at large and is declared to be public
nuisance. When dogs or cats are found running large and their ownership can be
discovered by examination of any rabies license, which must be affixed to the
dog or cat, or by inquiry of any person residing in the immediate vicinity
where the dog or cat was first taken in possession, such dog or cat need not be
impounded, but the Animal Control Officer may cite the owner of such dog or cat
to appear in court to answer charges of violations of this chapter. Such
citation shall state the violation date, time, location, breed, and color of
the dog or cat, if known, and the name and address of the owner of said dog or
cat. Said notice shall direct the owner to appear before the magistrate court
to answer to the charge of such violation.
   (B)   Public park and recreation area and cemetery. It shall be unlawful to
have any animal in any public park and recreation area or cemetery within the
city except under leash control and on designated roads and walkways. This
excludes all persons or organizations authorized by the city.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.022 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION.
   Any dog or cat found running at large as defined in this chapter may be
taken by the Animal Control Officer and impounded in the animal shelter to be
confined in a humane manner. Any animal impounded and not claimed by its owners
at the expiration of five days may be disposed of at the discretion of the
Animal Control Officer, or appointed designee, except as hereinafter provided
in certain cases of certain dogs or cats. Immediately after impounding such dog
or cat before euthanizing or disposing of it, the owner shall be given notice
of the conditions whereby he or she may regain possession of such dog or cat.
If any owner has requested his or her animal to be euthanized and disposed of
humanely, the Animal Control Officer or appointed designee may collect from
said owner a fee that will cover the cost of such euthanization or disposal.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 91.023 REDEMPTION OR DESTRUCTION.
   During the period of possession, any person shall pay fees for impound and
having a current rabies certificate may redeem and obtain possession of a dog
or cat that was untagged or tagged and thereby impounded. If the owner of any
impounded dog or cat, under the provisions of this chapter, shall fail to
redeem such dog or cat within three consecutive days, not counting Sunday and
holidays, after such impounding, said dog or cat shall be disposed of by humane
euthanization. The Animal Control Officer may euthanize by a humane manner any
sick or injured animal which has been impounded without holding it for three
days if its condition is such that euthanization is the most humane manner to
dispose of the animal.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 91.024 KENNELS.
   (A)   License required. Any person owning, possessing, keeping, or desiring
to keep or maintain with the city a kennel composed of four or more animals of
any one species shall obtain from the city a license therefor before such
kennel may be kept or maintained. For purpose of this provision, anyone keeping
four or more of any animal species shall be deemed to operate a kennel and
shall comply with specifically all provisions of this chapter relating to and
in addition to all requirements of this section.
   (B)   License fee for kennel. License or animal renewal inspection fee shall
be $25 per year. The Animal Control Officer shall do annual inspection and
renewals.
   (C)   License maintained. Every person desiring to obtain a kennel license
provided for herein shall make application on a form by the city. Along with
the application, the applicant shall also provide to the city the written
consent of the majority of the persons of full age residing with 400 feet of
the exterior boundaries of the premises where such kennel is proposed to be
located and kept. The city's designee shall make a site inspection and submit
in writing the site inspection report, application, and written consent to the
Board of Commissioners. The report shall state the name and place where such
kennel is to be located and the size of the kennel proposed to be kept. Then,
upon payment of the license fee as herein provided and upon the approval of the
Board of Commissioners, the license shall be issued. The approval of Board of
Commissioners shall be conditional upon compliance with all applicable zoning
laws, all provisions of this chapter relating to the keeping of animals
generally, and all other properly promulgated rules and regulations of the
state and the city relating to the keeping of animals.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010; Ord. 2023-06, passed 7-20-2023)
§ 91.025 DOGS’ BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   Dogs with destructive habits. It shall be unlawful for any person to
permit or suffer to run at large within the city any dog with destructive
habits or disposition which destroys property other than that of his or her
owner or is in the habit of barking at persons passing along or using the
streets and public sidewalks of the city. The Animal Control Officer under
proper authority is hereby empowered to impound any such animal.
   (B)   Barking dogs. No person owning or possessing any dogs, licensed or
unlicensed, confined on the premises or otherwise, shall suffer or permit such
dog to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by continuous barking or
howling or making other loud or unusual noises. It shall be the duty of any
person in possession of any such dog which disturbs the peace and quiet to
dispose of the disturbance, even if disposing of the dog is the only effective
means.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.026 DEFECATION.
   (A)   Restriction. No owner, keeper, caretaker, or attendant of an animal
shall allow animal to defecate on public or private property other than her or
his own. If such animal does defecate on said property, the owner must
immediately and thoroughly clean the fecal matter from such property.
   (B)   Fecal clean up requirement. Anyone walking an animal on public or
private property other than her or his own must carry with her or him a means
of cleaning up any fecal matter left by the animal. Animals used in parades or
involves in law enforcement are exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.027 NUMBER OF PETS LIMITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to have or to keep more than four domestic
pets over the age of six months old, except birds or fish or indoor cats on any
lot or premises in the city, unless such person residing in or on the premises
has a valid kennel license issued by the city. The humane society, Veterinarian
Officer, and retail pet stores are exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
ANIMAL CRUELTY
§ 91.040 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   No person shall cruelly treat any animal in any way. Any person who
inhumanely beats or wantonly or maliciously tortures, deprives of necessary
sustenance, drink, or shelter, or overloads, abandons, mutilates, or cruelly
kills any animals shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.041 TEASING AND MOLESTING.
   Any person who inhumanely teases, molests, baits, or in any way bothers any
way bothers any animal shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.042 KILLING, INJURING, POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously kill, wound,
or injure any animal in any way except as to protect the lives of any person or
livestock from being attacked by such animal; to willfully or maliciously
administer poison to any animal which is the property of another person; or to
expose any such poison substance with the intent that the same shall be taken
and swallowed by any dog or cat or any animal which is the property of another
person.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.043 ANIMAL FIGHTS.
   No person shall willfully allow any animal to fight, worry, or injure
another animal, nor shall any person keep any house, pit, or other place to be
used in permitting any fighting, worrying, or injuring of animals.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.044 ABANDONMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any animal upon a public
right-of-way, upon the property of another, or upon property owned by that
person within the city.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
RABIES CONTROL
§ 91.055 IMPOUNDING FOR OBSERVATION.
   (A)   When any person owning or harboring an animal has been notified that
said animal has bitten or attacked any person, the owner must immediately place
the animal under the care and observation of the Animal Control Officer or a
licensed veterinarian for a period of not less than ten days; however, in those
cases where the animal is a dog and the owner has a current rabies vaccination
for the said dog, the Officer may, if he or she feels the facilities are
adequate and if the owner is a responsible person, allow the quarantine of the
dog on the owner’s premises. In such a case, the owner must sign a statement in
which the owner recognizes and assumes the responsibility that is involved with
the quarantine of a dog that has bitten. A quarantined dog must, at all times,
be available for inspection during the quarantine.
   (B)   At the end of the ten-day period of observation, the animal shall be
examined by a veterinarian or the Animal Control Officer and, if cleared, may
be reclaimed by the owner. The owner must pay the expense incurred incident
thereto.
   (C)   Any animal impounded or placed for observation showing active signs or
rabies, suspected of having rabies, or known to have been exposed to rabies
shall be confined under competent observation for such time as may deemed
necessary to determine a diagnosis.
   (D)   Any animal that has bitten or attacked and cannot be captured, shows
of or is suspected of rabies, or any animal that has no confirmable rabies
vaccination history may be destroyed in such a manner that the head is not
damaged and can be submitted for rabies examination to a laboratory.
   (E)   Every unvaccinated animal bitten by another animal showing positive
symptoms of rabies shall be forthwith destroyed or shall, at the owner’s option
and expense, be held for observation for not less than six months under direct
supervision of a veterinarian and the animal is to receive a rabies vaccination
one month prior to its release from observation.
   (F)   Every owner having knowledge that his or her animal has bitten or is
suspected of biting a human being shall forthwith report the same to the Police
Department for disposition of said animal under the provisions of the chapter.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 91.056 KEEPING RABID ANIMALS.
   No person shall knowingly harbor or keep any animal infected with rabies or
any animal known to have been bitten by an animal known to be infected with
rabies.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.057 REPORT OF SUSPECTED CASES.
   (A)   General. Any person who shall suspect any animal in the city to be
infected with rabies shall report said animal to the Animal Control Officer,
describing the animal and giving the name and address of the owner if known.
   (B)   Veterinarians. Veterinarians within the city receiving information or
reports of suspected rabies in wild animals or domestic animals shall report
such information to any Animal Control Officer in the city.
   (C)   Physicians. Physicians within the city, immediately upon treatment of
any person bitten by an animal, shall report such information to any Animal
Control Officer of the city.
   (D)   Investigation.
      (1)   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter
and to enforce the provisions thereof, any Animal Control Officer, or her or
his appointed designee, is empowered to enter any premises upon which an animal
is kept or harbored and to demand the extradition, by the owner of such animal,
of the license or a valid rabies certificate for said animal. It is further
provided that the Animal Control Officer, police officer, or her or his
appointed designee may enter upon the premises where any animal is kept in a
reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal and to
take possession of such animal if there is probable cause to believe an animal
or animals have been treated inhumanely.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer, police officer, or her or his appointed
designee is hereby authorized to follow and enter upon any enclosure or lot
within the city in quest of any animal suspected of being infected by rabies or
to apprehend any dog which has been observed running at large.
   (E)   Interference. No person shall interfere with, hinder, or molest any
official in the performance of any duty of his or her office, or seek to
release any animal in the custody of the Animal Control Officer except as
herein provided.
(Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
91.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.070 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH A WARNING TICKET.
   It is unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with the
provisions of requirements of a warning ticket lawfully issued under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.117) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.071 RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the shelter manager and the Animal Control Officer
to keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of the licensing,
finding, impoundment, and disposition of all animals and owners coming into his
or her custody. It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer and shelter
manager to keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of all bite
cases provided to him or her and his or her investigation of the same. It shall
be the duty of the shelter manager to keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and
detailed records of all moneys belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 93.118)
§ 91.072 PAYMENT OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   No person may avoid payment of licenses or impoundment fees prescribed by
this chapter or charges for veterinarian services or rabies observation costs
incurred under this chapter by stopping payment on any check or issuing an
insufficient funds check.
(Prior Code, § 93.119) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is a Class II
misdemeanor and is subject to the maximum punishment set forth by the laws of
the state pursuant to SDCL § 22-6-2. Citations and fines will be issued in
accordance with the general penalty provision in §
10.99, or as established by resolution of the Board of Commissioners. Said
punishment may also include payment of any costs and/or restitution authorized
by this chapter and/or state law.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies provided in this chapter, any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the general penalty
provision as set forth in division (A) above unless otherwise specifically
provided, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 93.999) (Ord. 33, passed 7-8-2010; Ord. 33.01B, passed 10-5-
2010; Ord. 2023-10, passed 7-20-2023; Ord. 2024-08, passed 4-18-2024)
Statutory reference:
Maximum penalty, see SDCL § 9-19-3
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Scope and purpose
   
92.002   Definitions
General Nuisances
   
92.015   Deemed nuisances
   
92.016   Filing a complaint
   
92.017   Notice of violation; right to review
   
92.018   Abatement or filing of review required
   
92.019   Notice of review
   
92.020   Issuance of ticket of violation
   
92.021   Abatement
   
92.022   Landowner responsible for costs
Weeds, Trees, Bushes
   
92.035   Weeds and noxious vegetation
   
92.036   Overhanging tree limbs and bushes
   
92.037   Notice to cut vegetation
   
92.038   Removal
   
92.039   Duty of owner, manager, lessee or tenant
Non-Domestic Animals
   
92.050   Building materials not to provide for harborage for animals
   
92.051   Notice to owner from Health Officer
   
92.052   Action required by owner
   
92.053   Food and/or feed protection
   
92.054   Feeding of big game animals prohibited
Waste Removal
   
92.065   Depositing of filth and obnoxious/offensive substances
   
92.066   Deposits prohibited
   
92.067   Manure
   
92.068   Stagnant water
   
92.069   Dead animals
   
92.070   Keeping or using putrid materials
   
92.071   Unwholesome business
   
92.072   Scattering papers
   
92.073   Unauthorized use of city garbage containers/unauthorized dumping/theft
of services
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate acts, conditions, and things that
are or may be injurious to the health and/or safety of the public; that are
indecent or offensive to the senses; or that are an obstruction to the free use
of property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of another’s life
or property.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIG GAME ANIMAL. Any cloven-hoofed wild animal, mountain lion, or wild
turkey.
   DAMAGED BUILDING. Any structure and/or building which has been destroyed or
damaged by natural disasters or fire and has not been torn down, salvaged, or
repaired.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS. Any structure, which, because of the lack of
maintenance, has become a fire hazard or a public health or safety hazard.
   FIREWORKS. A device consisting of a combination of explosives and
combustibles, set off to generate colored lights, smoke, and noise for
amusement.
   GARBAGE. Cans, bottles, ashes, kitchen refuse, and/or an accumulation of
animal and vegetable matter which attends the preparation, cooking, and eating
of food, cans, bottles, and ashes.
   IMPURE WATER. Any well or other supply of water used for human consumption
or for household purposes which has become polluted.
   INDECENT. Conduct or language patently offensive in its content or
application.
   LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises which is licensed to allow sexually oriented
performing and which is licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals with less than a
full opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a full
opaque covering or any portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or the
depiction of covered male genitals in a discernable turgid state.
   NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the health or safety, is indecent
or offensive to the senses, or is an obstruction to the free use of property so
as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
   RODENT HARBORAGE. Any condition which provides shelter or protection for
rodents thus favoring the rodents’ multiplication and continuous existence in,
under, or around a structure of any kind.
   RODENTS. Any non-domestic animal, including but not limited to rats, skunks,
and raccoons.
   RUBBISH. Any waste other than garbage, including paper, boxes, cartons,
wastes from gardens and lawns, and tree branches.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Any act of masturbation, sexual intercourse, or other
physical contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area,
buttocks, or, if such person be a female, the breast.
   STAGNANT WATER. Any excavation, pond, or low-lying area, public or private,
in which water has become stagnant, has produced mosquito larvae, and/or has an
offensive odor.
   WASTE MATERIAL. Any noncombustible inorganic matter, including but not
limited to ashes, glass, sand, earth, stones, concrete, mortar, metals, and tin
cans.
   WRECKED VEHICLE. Any automobile which, because of body damage or operating
apparatus, including tires and wheels, is in such a condition to render the
start, legal operation, or use of said automobile impossible.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
GENERAL NUISANCES
§ 92.015 DEEMED NUISANCES.
   The following specific acts, conditions, and things are each declared a
public nuisance; however, this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be maintained or to
accumulate upon any public or private property any garbage, refuse, or waste
which is likely to cause or transmit disease or which is a hazard to health;
   (B)   Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be maintained or to
accumulate upon any public or private property any rubbish. This provision
shall not include building materials for sale used on pending construction;
   (C)   Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be maintained or to
accumulate upon any public or private property any waste material. This
provision shall not include materials which are not human-made and are used to
fill a site for the purpose of construction or land leveling;
   (D)   Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be maintained or to
accumulate upon any public or private property any abandoned, discarded, or
unused furniture, refrigerators, washing machines, dryers, stoves, sinks,
toilets, cabinets, or household furnishings/fixtures, and/or storing said items
in such a manner as to be visible to the public from adjoining property, public
alleys, or streets;
   (E)   Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be maintained or to
accumulate upon any public or private property any vehicle or vehicles that is/
are abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative, including any vehicle with
flat tires, missing wheels, and the like;
   (F)   (1)   Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be maintained or to
accumulate upon any public or private property any automobile or automobiles
which is/are non-licensed automobiles or because of body damage, or operating
apparatus, including tires and wheels, is/are in such a condition to render the
start, legal operation, or use of said automobile or automobiles impossible;
and
      (2)   Any vehicle which is left for repair at a regularly operated repair
garage is exempt from this section.
   (G)   Any trailer, recreational vehicle, or implement which is left standing
on a public right-of-way for a period of 36 hours or longer;
   (H)   Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be maintained or to
accumulate upon any public or private property any trees and/or bushes that
interfere with the health, safety, or enjoyment of another;
   (I)   Damaged buildings;
   (J)   Dilapidated buildings;
   (K)   Impure water;
   (L)   (1)   Undressed hides, which for any reason are kept longer than 24
hours; and
      (2)   Hides which are kept at a place where they are to be manufactured
into items such as gloves, coats, and the like and are stored inside an
approved structure which complies with all health regulations for such
manufacturing shall be exempt from this section.
   (M)   (1)   The accumulation of manure; and
      (2)   Manure accumulated to be properly used as a fertilizer shall be
exempt from this section.
   (N)   Rodents;
   (O)   Stagnant water;
   (P)   Any dead animal remaining on any public or private ground for a period
of more than 24 hours;
   (Q)   Depositing, placing, letting fall, or throwing materials into a pond,
pool, or waterway as to pollute said water;
   (R)   Erecting or maintaining any privy or cesspool unless approved by the
Board of Commissioners and the State Department of Environment and Natural
Resources;
   (S)   (1)   Ignition of any bonfire or campfire on public or private
property;
      (2)   Campfires which are placed in approved fire rings and are in
conjunction with a year-round, state-licensed campground shall be exempt from
this section; and
      (3)   Approved campgrounds shall receive approval from the Fire Chief in
writing prior to burning.
   (T)   Parking or allowing a livestock truck, trailer, or any other vehicle
which gives off an offensive odor or contains an offensive substance or other
filth on any public or private grounds;
   (U)   Causing or allowing any offensive, foul odors or stenches that are
dangerous or offensive to the neighborhood to be emitted from public or private
property;
   (V)   Causing or allowing pieces of paper, newsprint, excelsior, handbills,
posters, building paper, advertisements, or other materials to be carried about
by the winds;
   (W)   Leaving or allowing to remain outside of any dwelling, building, or
other structure or within any unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling, or
other structure under his or her control, in a place accessible to children,
any non-operating ice box, refrigerator, or other container without first
removing said door or lid for said ice box, refrigerator, or container; or
   (X)   Depositing or placing any offal, filth, filthy waters, human or animal
waste, or obnoxious liquid substances, including, for example, but not limited
to: petroleum products such as oil and gasoline, on any private lot or public
grounds.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.016 FILING A COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Unless otherwise stated in this chapter, in the event any city
representative receives a complaint, either orally or in writing, he or she
shall forward the complaint to the Code Enforcement Officer for investigation.
   (B)   As part of the investigation, the Code Enforcement Coordinator shall
obtain the following information in writing:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of the person making said
complaint;
      (2)   Address of the property for which the complaint is being filed; and
      (3)   Nature of the complaint.
   (C)   After obtaining the necessary information from the complainant, the
Code Enforcement Coordinator will request assistance from the Code Enforcement
Officer or request an investigation by a more appropriate city employee and/or
agent as is necessary based upon the nature of the complaint.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.017 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; RIGHT TO REVIEW.
   (A)   Courtesy letter/notice of violation.
      (1)   Unless otherwise stated in this chapter, in the event the Code
Enforcement Coordinator, Code Enforcement Officer, and/or agent finds that any
violation exists, the Code Enforcement Coordinator shall send a courtesy
letter/notice of violation to the property owner.
      (2)   The letter shall state the following:
         (a)   Name and address of the property owner;
         (b)   Address and legal description of the property in violation;
         (c)   Nature of the violation;
         (d)   Title, chapter, and section violated;
         (e)   Demand that the property owner become compliant; and
         (f)   The date upon which the representative will inspect the property
for compliance.
   (B)   Notice to complainant and right to review.
      (1)   In the event the Code Enforcement Coordinator or Code Enforcement
Officer and/or agent concludes that a violation does not exist, the Code
Enforcement Coordinator shall send a letter to the complainant within 15 days
of advising her or him of said determination. In the event that the complainant
is not satisfied with the investigation and subsequent determination, said
complainant may file a written request for review.
      (2)   The process shall be as follows.
         (a)   An aggrieved person shall first file a written request for
review with the Code Enforcement Coordinator setting forth the basis for which
she or he believes the decision that a violation does not exist to be in error.
The writing shall also include the person’s name and mailing address.
         (b)   Upon receipt of the written request for review, the Code
Enforcement Coordinator shall notify the Public Safety Commissioner.
         (c)   The Public Safety Commissioner shall have 30 days to review the
case and give its decision in writing to the complainant.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.018 ABATEMENT OR FILING OF REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Any person who has received written notification of an existing violation
shall either abate said nuisance or file a written notice of review with the
Code Enforcement Coordinator within 15 days of receipt of the courtesy letter/
notice of violation.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.019 NOTICE OF REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person who disagrees with the determination of a violation by the
Code Enforcement Coordinator or Code Enforcement Officer and/or agent shall
have the right to have the Public Safety Commissioner review the decision.
   (B)   The process shall be as follows.
      (1)   An aggrieved person shall first file a written request for review
with the Code Enforcement Coordinator setting forth the basis for which he or
she believes the decision that a violation exists to be in error. The writing
shall also include the person's name and mailing address.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the written request for review, the Code
Enforcement Coordinator shall notify the Public Safety Commissioner.
      (3)   The Public Safety Commissioner shall have 30 days to review the
case and give his or her decision in writing to the landowner.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014; Ord. 2023-08, passed 7-20-2023)
§ 92.020 ISSUANCE OF TICKET OF VIOLATION.
   If the landowner fails to abate the nuisance or request a review from the
Public Safety Commissioner within the given time, the city may issue a
complaint and summons to the landowner ordering the landowner to appear in
court to answer said violation. Each violation may be considered a Class II
misdemeanor for each day of violation until the nuisance is abated.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.021 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   In lieu of or in addition to the issuance of a complaint and
summons to appear in court, for violation of this chapter, the city shall also
have the authority to abate said nuisance as set forth in SDCL § 21-10-6.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Coordinator or Code Enforcement Officer and/or
agent that conducted the investigation shall have the authority to employ a
contractor to assist with said abatement.
   (B)   Immediate abatement required in certain cases.
      (1)   Nuisance cases involving subjects such as, but not limited to,
bonfires, campfires, dead animals, undressed hides, depositing filth, spoiled
foods, or similar items which are determined by the Code Enforcement
Coordinator or Code Enforcement Officer to be an immediate threat to public
health and safety shall be abated immediately, unless it is otherwise dictated
by the Code Enforcement Coordinator or Code Enforcement Officer of the city.
      (2)   Sections
92.017(B) through
92.020 shall not be applicable to nuisances deemed to be in need of immediate
abatement due to the threat to public health and safety.
      (3)   In the event the violator refuses to comply with the orders of the
city, the city may have the nuisance abated immediately at the owner’s expense.
      (4)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to interfere with the
city’s authority to immediately abate a nuisance that has been determined by
the city to be an immediate threat to public health and safety.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.022 LANDOWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Any related expenses, receipts, and administrative, legal, and/or
investigative fees shall be billed to the landowner.
   (B)   In the event the landowner fails to pay said bill within 30 days, the
city’s Finance Officer may file a special assessment on the property with the
County Auditor’s office.
   (C)   In the event the nuisance abated is an unsafe or dilapidated building,
junk, trash, debris, or similar nuisance arising from the condition of the
property, the city may commence a civil action against the owner of the real
property for its costs of abatement in lieu of taxing the cost by special
assessment.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
WEEDS, TREES, BUSHES
§ 92.035 WEEDS AND NOXIOUS VEGETATION.
   (A)   All weeds and plants declared to be dangerous or noxious weeds by the
state’s Department of Agriculture or the Commission of State Weed Control or
the Board of Commissioners, and all other weeds suffered or allowed to grow
during the growing season which are declared noxious, dangerous, or unhealthy
vegetation, are hereby declared a public nuisance. It shall be the duty of the
property owner of any lot within the city to cut such noxious vegetation at
such time as necessary to prevent its growth.
   (B)   No landowner shall allow domestic grass, weeds, or noxious vegetation
to grow to a height or length of more than eight inches.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014; Ord. passed 9-19-2019) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.036 OVERHANGING TREE LIMBS AND BUSHES.
   (A)   The limbs of trees or bushes hanging less than 12 feet in height above
the driving surface of all streets within the city limits shall be declared a
public nuisance and shall be removed as stated in §§
92.052 and/or
92.053.
   (B)   Due to public safety concerns, the full width of sidewalks shall be
kept clear of all vegetation between the walking surface and eight feet above
the walking surface.
   (C)   All limbs of trees or bushes which are hanging less than eight feet in
height above the walking surface of all sidewalks within the city shall be
declared a public nuisance and shall be removed as stated in §§
92.052 and/or
92.053.
   (D)   The Police Chief may declare all trees or bushes which cause or may in
the future cause a traffic or visibility problem a public nuisance; in
addition, the Police Chief may, because of public safety, order said vegetation
removed immediately.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of all landowners to keep all overhanging trees
and bushes herein described cut down and removed on all lots owned or occupied
by them, and to the middle of the street abutting the land owned or occupied by
them.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.037 NOTICE TO CUT VEGETATION.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer, at any time during the growing season,
shall notify landowners in writing by certified mail or in person with a return
of service. Upon service, the landowner shall have ten days in which to remove
the violation, unless the city determines that a shorter period of time is
necessary, in which case the notice shall so state.
   (B)   This notice shall, in addition, inform the landowner that she or he is
required to keep all vegetation cut and in compliance with the city's
ordinances throughout the growing season.
   (C)   After receiving the initial notice to cut any grass, overhanging
limbs, weeds, trees, and the like, the landowner shall be required to abate any
similar nuisance within five days of written notification. Nothing in this
subchapter shall be construed as requiring the city to give subsequent notices
and the city may proceed to abate similar nuisances without giving subsequent
notices if deemed appropriate in its discretion.
   (D)   Notices shall include the following information:
      (1)   Landowner's name and address;
      (2)   Address of property in violation;
      (3)   Legal description of property;
      (4)   Ordinance section violated;
      (5)   Requirements of the ordinance; and
      (6)   Required completion date.
   (E)   The landowner may appeal the case in writing to the Finance Officer
within the time frame set for removal of the nuisance. If the landowner fails
to make a written appeal within this time frame, the nuisance may be abated as
stated in §
92.038.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014; Ord. 2023-09, passed 7-20-2023)
§ 92.038 REMOVAL.
   (A)   If the owner of said property fails to remove or cut vegetation within
the given time allowed by ordinance, the Code Enforcement Coordinator may cause
such vegetation to be removed.
   (B)   The city or its designee may enter upon the property for the purpose
of removing or cutting vegetation which is in violation of this subchapter,
with or without notice as determined by the city.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.039 DUTY OF OWNER, MANAGER, LESSEE OR TENANT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, manager, lessee, tenant, or other
person occupying or having charge or control of any lot in the city to permit
unmaintained vegetation and weeds to remain upon said city lot. This
requirement shall apply not only to the lot but also to the area between the
lot line and the
street surface within the right-of-way adjoining the lot. All weeds as
hereinafter defined are hereby declared a nuisance and are subject to abatement
as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   "Weeds" as used herein, means any of the following:
      (1)   Brush and woody vines;
      (2)   Vegetation and grasses, categorized as weeds, and any growth of the
soil which attains such growth as to become, when dry, a fire menace to
adjacent property;
      (3)   Any growth or product of the soil which bear or may bear seeds of a
down or wing type nature;
      (4)   Vegetation which is located in an area which harbors rats, insects,
animals, reptiles, or any other creature which either may or does constitute a
menace to health, public safety or welfare;
      (5)   Vegetation and grasses on or about property which would be
categorized as weeds, having a negative appearance on the neighborhood.
   (C)   "Vegetation" as used herein, means any growth or product of the soil
except a vegetable garden, ornamental flowers or shrubs, trees, grain or food
crops, if kept and maintained free of weeds and grass.
(Ord. 2023-16, passed 10-5-2023)
NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 92.050 BUILDING MATERIALS NOT TO PROVIDE FOR HARBORAGE FOR ANIMALS.
   No person shall permit to accumulate upon any premises, whether improved or
vacant, or upon any open lot, alley, street, or drive, any lumber, boxes,
barrels, bricks, stones, refuse, scrap, metal, iron, or other materials that
may permit harborage for non-domestic animals.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.051 NOTICE TO OWNER FROM HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   When it has come to the attention of the Code Enforcement Coordinator,
either by citizen complaint or by city staff, the Code Enforcement Coordinator
shall notify the owner in writing by certified mail.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Owner’s name and address;
      (2)   The property address and legal description; and
      (3)   Nature of the violation.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.052 ACTION REQUIRED BY OWNER.
   Upon receipt of written notice or order from the Code Enforcement
Coordinator, the owner of any property specified in said notice or order shall
take immediate steps for rodent-proofing said building and/or property. Unless
said work and improvements required for such rodent-proofing have been
completed by the owner of the property within the time specified or an
extension has been granted, the owner shall be deemed to have violated the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.053 FOOD AND/OR FEED PROTECTION.
   All food and/or feed, whether for human or animal consumption, shall be
protected from non- domestic animals by storing in buildings, compartments,
containers, or rooms which are rodent-proof.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.054 FEEDING OF BIG GAME ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall set out any grass, lawn cuttings, alfalfa, hay, grain,
minerals, salts, fruits, vegetables, nuts, or commercial animal feed or food
supplement for the purpose of the consumption by any big game animal with the
intention of providing such animals with supplementary nutrition or dietary
enhancement or with the intention of attracting any big game animal for
viewing.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
WASTE REMOVAL
§ 92.065 DEPOSITING OF FILTH AND OBNOXIOUS/OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Application of subchapter. The provisions of this subchapter shall
only apply to nuisances caused by the following:
      (1)   Depositing of garbage or refuse;
      (2)   Depositing of rubbish;
      (3)   Depositing of waste material;
      (4)   Vehicles containing obnoxious, offensive, or nauseous substances;
      (5)   Offensive odors; or
      (6)   Depositing filth.
   (B)   Action to be taken by the city. The following guidelines and penalties
shall apply only to this subchapter.
      (1)   Due to public health and safety concerns, once it has come to the
attention of the city that one or more of the above listed nuisance violations
have been committed, the Police Department may issue a ticket or the city may
serve a complaint and summons to appear in court to answer for said violation.
      (2)   In addition, the Code Enforcement Coordinator or Code Enforcement
Officer shall have the authority to have the nuisance abated, removed, or
cleaned up immediately at the cost of the violator.
      (3)   When the Code Enforcement Coordinator or Code Enforcement Officer
is dealing with a vehicle which contains obnoxious, offensive, or nauseous
substances, he or she shall direct the owner to remove the vehicle. If the
owner is unable to be found within a reasonable time, the Code Enforcement
Coordinator or Code Enforcement Officer shall have the vehicle towed at the
owner/driver’s expense. All towing and storage charges shall be assessed
against the owner or driver of the vehicle before possession is returned. For
purposes of this section only, a REASONABLE AMOUNT OF TIME shall be defined to
be no longer than 30 days under any circumstances; however, nothing in this
section shall prevent the city from taking immediate action when necessary to
protect the health and safety of the public.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.066 DEPOSITS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit of place any offal, filth, filthy waters, garbage,
ashes, waste water, sewage, tin cans, excrement, manure (except when used for
brief periods and in a proper manner as a fertilizer), decaying fruit,
vegetables, fish, meat, or bones, or any foul, putrid, or obnoxious liquid
substances (including all gasoline and petroleum or products thereof), on any
private lot, public thoroughfares (including all streets, highways, and
sidewalks), or public grounds of the city. No person shall throw, let fall on,
or permit to remain on any street, alley, or public ground any of the said
materials while engaged in handling or removing the same.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.067 MANURE.
   Manure shall not be allowed to accumulate anywhere in the city, and it shall
be used only in the proper manner as a fertilizer.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.068 STAGNANT WATER.
   No owner of any lot, or any other person responsible, shall allow the
collection of any stagnant water on any lot or premises within the city.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.069 DEAD ANIMALS.
   No owner or possessor of any animal which shall have died shall suffer the
same to lie on any public ground, street, lane, or alley or any private lot or
place within the city, nor shall any person throw or leave any such animal, any
vegetable or animal matter, or any slop or filth, whether solid or fluid, into
any pool of water in the city or other place to the annoyance of any citizen of
the city.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.070 KEEPING OR USING PUTRID MATERIALS.
   No person shall keep or use, or cause to be kept or used any stale, putrid,
or stinking fat, grease, or meat, nor shall any person keep for more than 24
hours any undressed hides, except at the place where used for manufacturing. No
owner or occupant of any grocery, cellar, tallow chandler, shop, soap factory,
tannery, pork or beef-packing house, stable, or barn shall suffer the same to
become foul, nauseous, or offensive.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.071 UNWHOLESOME BUSINESS.
   No person shall, on the premises owned or occupied, permit or suffer any
nuisance, either by exercising any unwholesome trade, calling, or business, or
by having or suffering any unwholesome or offensive substances whatsoever to
remain on her or his premises until, by offensive, foul odors, or stenches or
otherwise, said premises shall become offensive, hurtful, or dangerous to the
neighborhood.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.072 SCATTERING PAPERS.
   No person shall throw into, deposit upon, or in any manner permit to get in
any street, alley, or passageway of the city pieces of paper, newspapers,
excelsior, handbills, posters, building paper, lithographs used for
advertisement upon billboards, or any materials likely to be carried about by
the winds.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 92.073 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF CITY GARBAGE CONTAINERS/UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING/THEFT
OF SERVICES.
   (A)   Residential use only. Public receptacles are present for the
convenience of the public who use the city’s sidewalk and park system so that
they may deposit items of garbage therein rather than litter. The public
receptacles are not for the purpose of dumping large quantities of garbage,
construction debris, or other waste generated by commercial operations. It
shall be a violation of this section for any entity or commercial operation,
including, but not limited to, construction contractors, to utilize the city's
collection bins and containers for the purposes of disposing of waste material
and garbage, including construction debris. This pertains to all collection
bins, whether placed for the purpose of depositing solid waste, yard waste, or
recyclables.
   (B)   Outside waste. It is unlawful for any person residing outside of the
corporate limits of the city to bring quantities of garbage, yard waste, or
recyclables accumulated out of the town, and deposit them in any receptacle to
be collected by the city along the streets or elsewhere within the corporate
limits. The receptacles and waste deposit areas, whether for garbage, yard
waste or recyclables, are established by the city for its residents, and a
violation of this provision constitutes a theft of services.
   (C)   Construction debris. It shall be illegal and a violation of this
section for any person or entity to dispose of debris resulting from the
construction, demolition, or repair of any buildings in any containers placed
by the city, including the solid waste, yard waste, and recyclable containers.
These items include, but are not limited to, brick, stone, concrete, plumbing
materials, plaster, asphalt, roofing, floor coverings, gutters and shingles.
Demolition and construction waste, excavation byproducts, and other debris or
like material shall not be deposited in city receptacles.
   (D)   Additional prohibited items. It is further a violation of this section
for any individual to dispose of the following items in any of the city's
collection bins and containers.
   (E)   Fine and punishment. A violation of this section constitutes a Class 2
misdemeanor under South Dakota law and is punishable by up to 30 days in
imprisonment in the county jail or a $500 fine, or both fine and imprisonment
in accordance with the general penalty ordinance under City Code §
10.99. Each separate violation is a separate offense. Law enforcement is
authorized to proceed with issuing a citation for each violation upon
witnessing said violation or upon receipt of a verified complaint detailing the
facts of the violation. The city may also enforce this section by injunction.
(Ord. 2021-04, passed 9-2-2021; Ord. 2022-09, passed 9-1-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Littering regulations, construction sites, see §
90.06
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of the provisions of §§
92.001 and
92.002 is a Class II misdemeanor punishable by the maximum punishment set forth
by the laws of the state pursuant to SDCL § 22-6-2. Said punishment may also
include payment of any cost and/or restitution authorized by this chapter and/
or state law.
      (2)   In addition, any violation of the provisions of §§
92.001 and
92.002 may result in the revocation and/or suspension of any license issued
pursuant to any section of §§
92.001 and
92.002.
   (C)   All violations of §§
92.035 through
92.038 shall be considered a Class II misdemeanor. The city may also impose
civil penalties in the amount of $500 for each violation, which civil penalty
will incur on a daily basis for each day the nuisance exists from and after the
date of any notice given by the city. In addition, the city may in its
discretion revoke any licenses issued to the violator or withhold any approval
or permits based upon any such violations and until all civil penalties and
costs are paid in full.
(Ord. 1.90A, passed 5-15-2014)
CHAPTER 93: INOPERABLE, ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Storing, parking, or leaving vehicles as a nuisance
   
93.03   Exceptions
   
93.04   Presence on private property prohibited
   
93.05   Racing or antique vehicles
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle as deemed hereinafter which is
left unattended on any public street, alley, other public right-of-way, place,
or parking lot within the municipality for a longer period than five
consecutive days without notifying local law enforcement and making
arrangements for the parking of such motor vehicle.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any car bodies, wrecked cars, abandoned and unusable
cars, car bodies, or equipment of any type, except in authorized junk vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf-
carts, campers, trailers, construction equipment, and agricultural equipment.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the municipality which is
privately owned and which is not public property as defined herein.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley, or highway, or boulevard which shall
include the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained for the purposes of vehicular travel, and also means any other
publicly owned property or facility.
   REMOVAL AGENCY. Any public body, private, or nonprofit organization
authorized by the municipality to remove and salvage abandoned or inoperable
motor vehicles.
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance which is designed to travel along the ground, in the
air, or in the water, either powered or non-powered, and shall include, but not
be limited to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters,
trucks, tractors, pull trailers, go-carts, golf carts, boats, campers,
trailers, construction equipment, and agricultural equipment.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 2023-11, passed 7-20-2023)
§ 93.02 STORING, PARKING, OR LEAVING VEHICLES AS A NUISANCE.
   (A)   The presence of an unlicensed, abandoned, discarded, wrecked, burned,
dismantled, inoperable, junked, or partially dismantled vehicle or parts
thereof on private or public property is hereby declared a nuisance, which may
be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful to keep or place any of such vehicles or vehicle parts:
      (1)   Upon public streets or property except on an emergency basis; or
      (2)   Upon private property of any person owning, in charge of, or in
control of any real property in the municipality, whether as an owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee, or otherwise, for longer than 14 days unless it is within a
carport or fully enclosed building or structure. A tarpaulin, tent, or other
similar temporary structure shall not be deemed to satisfy the requirements of
this section.
   (C)   In no event shall an inoperable vehicle that constitutes an imminent
health, safety, or fire hazard be kept located on any premises.
   (D)   The city may issue fines for a violation of this chapter in accordance
with the general penalty provision in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 2023-13, passed 7-20-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   One inoperable vehicle kept on private property without being shielded
from public view if licensed and kept on a private driveway. If this inoperable
vehicle is in a state of externally visible disrepair or disassembly, it shall
not be kept on the private driveway for longer than 14 days;
   (B)   Filling stations, automobile repair shops, or any other motor vehicle-
related business in compliance with applicable municipal ordinances may place
inoperable vehicles being repaired or offered for sale on the premises; or
   (C)   Junkyards operated and maintained in compliance with municipal
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 93.04 PRESENCE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person owning, in charge of, or in control of any real property within
the municipality, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
shall allow any unlicensed, abandoned, or junk vehicle of any kind to remain on
such property longer than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 RACING OR ANTIQUE VEHICLES.
   No owner or occupant of private property shall have an uncovered motor
vehicle in operable condition specifically adopted or designed for operation on
drag strips or raceways or an uncovered motor vehicle retained on private
property for antique collection purposes.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Authority
   
94.02   Streets and improvements
Sidewalks
   
94.15   Width and material of sidewalks
   
94.16   Failure to keep sidewalks in repair; liability
   
94.17   Notice to construct or repair sidewalk
   
94.18   Failure of owner to repair sidewalk
   
94.19   Assessment of sidewalk repair costs
   
94.20   Filing of assessment for sidewalk construction or repair
   
94.21   Mailboxes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 AUTHORITY.
   This municipality shall have the power to regulate the use of sidewalks,
streets, alleys, wharves, parks, and public grounds to provide for cleaning the
same, to prevent and remove obstructions and encroachments upon the same, to
prevent injury to the same, to regulate or prevent any practice having a
tendency to annoy persons frequenting the same, and to regulate or prohibit
structures under sidewalks and riding and driving thereon pursuant to SDLC § 9-
30-2.
(Prior Code, § 94.01)
§ 94.02 STREETS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   This municipality shall have the power to lay out, establish, open, vacate,
alter, widen, extend, improve, repair, grade, gravel, surface, pave, repave,
bridge, construct a viaduct upon or over, erect equipment for street lighting
in and otherwise improve, establish, and change the grade of roads, streets,
alleys, sidewalks, and public grounds, and to regulate the making of openings
and connections therein and the erection of lights thereon as provided in SDCL
§ 9-45-1.
(Prior Code, § 94.15)
SIDEWALKS
§ 94.15 WIDTH AND MATERIAL OF SIDEWALKS.
   The width of sidewalks in this municipality shall be as is set by the
governing body. All sidewalks must be composed of material as is set out by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 94.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-46-1
§ 94.16 FAILURE TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any owner of real property who fails to keep in repair the sidewalks
in front of or along such property if he or she resides thereon, or if he or
she does not reside thereon, to repair the same forthwith when notified, is
liable to the municipality for any damage caused by such neglect.
   (B)   The duty of the municipality to notify the nonresident owner does not
affect the liability of the owner for any injury proximately caused by the
negligent construction or repair of the sidewalk.
   (C)   The failure of the municipality to notify the nonresident owner does
not result in any liability on the part of the municipality for any injury
proximately caused by the negligent construction or repair of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 94.27) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-46-1
§ 94.17 NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   If the municipality deems it necessary to construct, rebuild, or
repair any sidewalk, it shall notify all owners of lots adjoining such sidewalk
to construct, rebuild, or repair the sidewalk at their own expense within a
time designated.
   (B)   Such notice shall be in writing and either be served personally or by
return receipt mail on each owner or by publication once in each week for two
consecutive weeks. It shall set forth the character of the work and the time
within which it is to be done. Such notice may be general as to the owners but
shall be specific as to the description of such lots.
(Prior Code, § 94.28)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-46-3
§ 94.18 FAILURE OF OWNER TO REPAIR SIDEWALK.
   If such sidewalk is not constructed, reconstructed, or repaired in the
manner and within the time prescribed pursuant to §
94.18, the municipality by resolution may cause the work to be done by day
labor or by job. If the amount of the contract is less than the amount provided
for in SDCL § 5-18A-3, it is not necessary to advertise for bids.
(Prior Code, § 94.29)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-46-4
§ 94.19 ASSESSMENT OF SIDEWALK REPAIR COSTS.
   The cost thereof shall be assessed against the lots fronting or abutting
upon the sidewalk so constructed, reconstructed, or repaired, as provided in
this chapter. In estimating such assessment the entire cost of the improvement
fronting on the property to be assessed shall be divided by the number of feet
fronting or abutting on the same, and the quotient shall be the sum to be
assessed per front foot against each lot so fronting or abutting.
(Prior Code, § 94.30)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-46-5
§ 94.20 FILING OF ASSESSMENT FOR SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.
   After the completion of the construction or repair of said sidewalk, the
Municipal Engineer or such other person designated for that purpose shall file
in the office of the Clerk an assessment roll showing the amount to be assessed
against each lot or parcel of ground which amount shall include the contract
price or the cost of the work by day labor, engineering, and any other costs
entering into such construction or repair, the description of the property
abutting upon said sidewalk which is to be assessed, and the name of the owner
or owners thereof as shown by the records in the office of the Director of
Equalization.
(Prior Code, § 94.31)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-46-6
§ 94.21 MAILBOXES.
   Mailboxes are permitted to be located on or adjacent to a municipal street
curb or sidewalk, provided that all other requirements as set out by the
municipality for installing the mailboxes are met.
(Prior Code, § 94.32)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-46-11
CHAPTER 95: RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Municipal park
   
95.02   Sport shooting range
§ 95.01 MUNICIPAL PARK.
   (A)   Authority. This municipality shall have the authority to establish,
improve, maintain, and otherwise regulate public parks pursuant to SDCL §§ 9-
38-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 95.01)
   (B)   Control of park. Except as provided for by first- or second-class
municipalities under a commission form of government the public parks of every
municipality, whether within or without the limits of the municipality, shall
be under the control and supervision of the governing body thereof unless a
Park Board shall have been created as provided in this pursuant to SDCL Ch. 9-
38.
(Prior Code, § 95.02)
   (C)   Athletic facilities; fees; Park Fund.
      (1)   A municipality may establish, maintain, and operate golf courses,
tennis courts, ball grounds, and other athletic amusements, and necessary
facilities in connection therewith, as a part of its park system, and charge
fees for the use thereof.
      (2)   All fees received under this section and any other money received
for use of the Board including tax revenues which may be appropriated for park
purposes shall be kept in a special Park Fund and shall be paid upon
requisition by the President and Secretary of the Board and warrant drawn and
executed as other warrants.
(Prior Code, § 95.03)
§ 95.02 SPORT SHOOTING RANGE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPORT SHOOTING RANGE. An area designed and operated for the use of
rifles, shotguns, or pistols as a means of silhouette, skeet, trap, black
powder, or other sport shooting. A SPORT SHOOTING RANGE includes a law
enforcement shooting range.
(Prior Code, § 95.15)
   (B)   Operation and use of any sport shooting range.
      (1)   The use or operation of a sport shooting range may not be enjoined
as a nuisance if the range is in compliance with those statutes, regulations,
and ordinances that applied to the range and its operation at the time when the
initial operation of the range commenced. The use or operation of a sport
shooting range may not be enjoined as a nuisance due to any subsequent change
in any statute, regulation, or ordinance pertaining to the normal operation and
use of sport shooting ranges.
      (2)   The use or operation of a sport shooting range may not be enjoined
as a nuisance by a person who acquires title to real property adversely
affected by the normal operation and use of a sport shooting range which
commenced operation prior to the time the person acquired title.
      (3)   The provisions of SDCL §§ 21-10-28 through 21-10-34 do not apply to
any recovery for any act or omission relating to the operation or use of any
sport shooting range based on negligent, willful, or wanton misconduct.
      (4)   The provisions of SDCL §§ 21-10-28 through 21-10-34 do not apply if
there has been a substantial change in the primary use of the sporting range.
(Prior Code, § 95.16)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 21-10-28, 21-10-29, 21-10-30, 21-10-31, and
21-10-33
CHAPTER 96: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
   
96.01   Driving over a fire hose
   
96.02   Parking near station or hydrant
   
96.03   Unlawful to tamper with fire appliances or hydrants
   
96.04   False alarms
   
96.05   Problematic systems
   
96.06   Refuse fires
   
96.07   Controlled burns by permit
   
96.08   Authorized controlled burns
   
96.09   Open fires
   
96.10   Recreational fire
   
96.11   Ban on outside burning
   
96.12   Fireworks displays
   
96.13   Fireworks sales
   
96.14   Installation of key boxes
   
96.15   Hazardous materials
   
96.16   Unattended gas pumps
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DRIVING OVER OR ON A FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall drive over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department when
laid down on any street or alley or elsewhere to be used during any emergency
or during any training session without the consent of the Fire Chief or
designated officer in charge of the scene.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 PARKING NEAR STATION OR HYDRANT.
   (A)   As provided for in §
71.081, no person shall park on any street or public ground within five feet on
either side of a fire hydrant.
   (B)   No person shall place any vehicle or object within 15 feet of an
entrance to a place where fire apparatus is stored.
   (C)   As per Section 507.5.5 of the International Fire Code entitled “clear
space around hydrants”, a three-foot clear space shall be maintained around the
circumference of fire hydrants, except as otherwise required or approved. No
person shall place on public or private ground any posts, fences, structures,
vehicles, growth, trash, storage or any obstruction within a three-foot
circumference of any fire hydrants, Fire Department connections or fire system
controls. The Fire Department shall not be deterred or hindered in any way from
gaining immediate access to fire-protection equipment private or public.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 UNLAWFUL TO TAMPER WITH FIRE APPLIANCES OR HYDRANTS.
   No person shall tamper with, remove, disturb or deface fire hydrants and/or
appliances utilized by the Fire Department for firefighting except for the
purpose to extinguish fire, training, testing, recharging or making necessary
repairs, when allowed by the City Administrator or the Fire Chief, when so
authorized.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 FALSE ALARMS.
   No person shall signal or transmit an alarm which is false in nature.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 PROBLEMATIC SYSTEMS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, a FALSE ALARM is an alarm that is
not sounded as a result of a real or perceived emergency and includes false
alarms sounded due to human error or equipment malfunctions.
   (B)   The Chief of Police will designate an employee to maintain a listing
of alarm responses for at least the previous year. The designee will retrieve a
report of alarm responses from the Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) system.
   (C)   Upon determining that a business or facility has caused two false
alarms within 12 months, an attempt will be made to contact management of that
business or facility to notify them that subsequent false alarms will result in
a monetary fine.
   (D)   Whenever any duly authorized law enforcement personnel have responded
to two false alarms within any period of 12 calendar months to the same
premises in response to any police alarm or police alarm system as provided for
herein, the owner or occupant of the real property on which the alarm or alarm
system is installed shall pay to the city for each false alarm thereafter the
sum of $50 as partial compensation for those costs incurred by the Police
Department in responding to the false alarm.
   (E)   If the location has had more than five but less than eight other false
alarms in the preceding 12-month period, the fee shall be $75. If the location
has had eight or more other false alarms in the preceding 12-month period, the
fee shall be $100.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners may from time to time adjust the dollar
amount of the applicable fees set forth herein by resolution.
   (G)   In the event an invoice for payment hereunder is unpaid more than 30
days after the due date, the Chief of Police may order that the central station
service shall disconnect the police alarm system from its service upon 20-days-
notice to the owner or occupant of the subject property.
   (H)   The Chief of Police may waive charges for any response made within 14
days after initial installation. However, notification is not required to
implement the penalty phase of the ordinance.
   (I)   Notifications can be in person, by mail or by telephone and will be
documented.
   (J)   Any invoice issued may be appealed first to the Chief of Police then
to the Board of Commissioners.
   (K)   The payment of all penalties will be due within 30 days of the
invoice. All payments received will be forwarded to the Finance Office on a
weekly basis. The Chief of Police will be provided with a monthly summary of
all outstanding billings. The city may proceed in any manner authorized by law
to collect full payment.
   (L)   The Chief of Police will be responsible for overall monitoring of this
alarm ordinance enforcement and will initiate disconnect proceedings and other
enforcement provisions in his or her discretion.
   (M)   All provisions of the ordinances of the city in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter be and the same are hereby repealed and any
provisions not so in conflict shall remain in force and effect.
   (N)   Should any sentence, paragraph, subdivision, clause, phrase or section
of this chapter be adjudged or held to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid,
the same shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole, or any part
or provision hereof other than the part so decided to be invalid, illegal or
unconstitutional and shall not affect the validity of the code of ordinances as
a whole.
   (O)   Nothing in this chapter is deemed to prevent the city from proceeding
under other code enforcement mechanisms and that any person, firm or
corporation violating any of the provisions or terms of this chapter may be
subject to the same penalty as provided for in the ordinances of the city, as
heretofore amended, which may be punished by a fine not to exceed the sum of
$200 for each offense; and each and every day such violation shall continue
shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018)
§ 96.06 REFUSE FIRES.
   No person shall set or cause to be set or allow upon their premises, public
or private, any fire, the purpose of destroying any paper, rubbish, trees,
leaves, grass, household trash or other materials.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 CONTROLLED BURNS.
   No controlled burns shall be allowed without first obtaining a permit from
the South Dakota Division of Wildfire.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 AUTHORIZED CONTROLLED BURN.
   The city, when deemed necessary, for the purpose of fire prevention, pest or
rodent control, may conduct a controlled burn on property under its control.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018)
§ 96.09 OPEN FIRES.
   No person shall set or cause to be set or allow to be set upon their
premises any open fire exposed to the wind and elements so that coal, flame,
cinders or burning parts thereof may be blown towards or against any
surrounding or adjacent property.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 RECREATIONAL FIRE.
   A recreational fire is a fire maintained in a manner approved by the local
Fire Chief that does not constitute a nuisance under §
92.001. The use of approved devices or structures is permitted within the city
when there is no ban on outside burning in effect. Any recreational fire must
be located at least eight feet back from the property line and at least five
feet away from any structure or other combustible materials. The use of a non-
approved device or structure shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 BAN ON OUTSIDE BURNING.
   (A)   The city bans backyard fire pit burning when the South Dakota
grasslands fire danger is very high or extreme for the city.
   (B)   The ban prohibits the use of outdoor appliances such as chimeneas,
fire places, recreational fires, fire pits and the like. Typical cooking
appliances, such as LP gas fire appliances, remain acceptable.
   (C)   Most fire stations have signs for the fire danger as determined by the
National Weather Service or you can look on the National Weather Service
website to determine our fire danger.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 FIREWORKS DISPLAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any discharge or cause to be discharged,
except as hereinafter permitted, any fireworks.
   (B)   The use of certain novelty fireworks within the city are permitted and
are limited to the following:
      (1)   Party poppers (not to exceed 0.25 grain);
      (2)   Snappers (not to exceed 0.02 grain);
      (3)   Sparklers (not to exceed 3.5 ounces);
      (4)   Toy caps (not to exceed 0.25 grain); and
      (5)   Flitter sparklers (not to exceed 0.2 ounces).
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a public display and discharge
of fireworks, providing such licensed individual, firm, partnership or
corporation planning to make a public display and discharge of fireworks, shall
first secure a written permit from the city and Chief of the Fire Department
upon which jurisdiction falls.
   (D)   This chapter extends to and shall cover all of the territory within
the corporate limits of the city and its one-mile jurisdiction.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13 FIREWORKS SALES.
   (A)   For a period, each year from June 27 through July 5 and from December
28 through January 1, fireworks may be sold within the city limits. Said sales
shall be in accordance with all state and federal requirements and no person
shall be permitted to conduct such sales without a license issued by the city.
To obtain a license to conduct such sales, the person shall first submit an
application, including a copy of a valid sales tax license issued in
applicant’s name to the Finance Office. An application fee, set by resolution,
payable to the city shall be submitted with the application. The Board of
Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to time by
resolution. After review, the Finance Office shall issue or deny the license
request within five business days.
   (B)   At no time shall a collapsible lantern or similar structure of thin
paper or similar material, deigned to be lit and then released into the air, be
allowed for sale or use within the city or within one mile of the city limits.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.14 INSTALLATION OF KEY BOXES.
   (A)   The following properties shall be required to have key boxes installed
which contain keys to allow the Fire Department immediate access necessary for
life saving, firefighting and/or law enforcement purposes:
      (1)   All multiple dwelling housing units;
      (2)   Motels and hotels with four or more units not having doors from
each guest room going directly to the outside or not having an employee on
premises 24 hours each day;
      (3)   All buildings or structures which are three or more stories high;
      (4)   Buildings with fire alarm systems and/or fire suppression systems;
      (5)   All building with elevators;
      (6)   Buildings, other than commercial, the owner of which requests that
the Police and/or Fire Department have a key;
      (7)   All building in commercial, highway service and industrial zoned
area of the city for which a permit is required;
      (8)   Covered malls as defined in the Building Code;
      (9)   Buildings or sites containing hazardous materials;
      (10)   Schools;
      (11)   Public or government owned buildings; and
      (12)   Buildings, which are determined by the City Administrator or his
or her designee to be difficult to access or those buildings having absentee
landowners.
   (B)   All properties falling within the foregoing categories shall be
required to have key boxes installed. The type and location of boxes must be
approved by the City Administrator or his or her designee. Key boxes shall
contain keys to gain access to the property as required by the City
Administrator or his or her designee.
   (C)   All existing buildings, which fall into the above categories but are
not in compliance with this section shall, within 12 months of written
notification from the City Administrator or his or her designee, install a key
box in compliance with this section.
   (D)   The Fire Department shall maintain a list of occupancies where key
boxes are installed. The Department shall visit each site annually and open key
boxes and notify landowners of any required maintenance.
   (E)   At any time a landowner changes the locks on a structure with a key
box, the landowner shall notify the Fire Department of said key change. The
Fire Department shall arrange a time to place a new master key in the lock
boxes.
   (F)   Any building with a 24-hour, seven day-a-week guard service or
personnel on duty who is awake within the interior of the site may be exempt
from installation of a key box upon the approval of the City Administrator or
his or her designee.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.15 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall store, manufacture, distribute or in any way handle
any materials declared to be hazardous by the International Fire Code and
without first notifying the City Administrator.
   (B)   Persons storing, manufacturing, distributing or in any way handling
any hazardous material must register with the City Administrator and receive
approval as required to begin his or her operation.
   (C)   The following information shall be provided to the city:
      (1)   Names of contact person;
      (2)   Phone number of contact person;
      (3)   List of materials, quantities and storage location;
      (4)   Use of material;
      (5)   Site plan of property; and
      (6)   Emergency plan.
   (D)   Any person storing, manufacturing, distributing or in any way handling
hazardous materials shall provide the local Fire Department with a MSDS
(material safety data sheet) for each material stored, handled or distributed.
   (E)   Any person manufacturing, distributing or in any way handling
hazardous materials shall be responsible for any cost incurred by the Fire
Department and/or the city during any event, fire or spill caused by the
person.
   (F)   Any person shall placard his or her property, structures and storage
facilities as required by NFPA (National Fire Protection Agency) and as
required by the codes adopted by the city.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.16 UNATTENDED GAS PUMPS.
   Any gas filling station within the city which provides 24-hour service or
pay at the pump service must provide 24-hour staffing or install recorded video
monitoring device, which provide surveillance of the pumps which are accessible
during all hours of operation.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any violator of this chapter is guilty of a Class II misdemeanor.
(Ord. 39, passed 10-4-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   LICENSING REGULATIONS
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
113.   REGULATION AND LICENSING OF LIQUOR OPERATIONS
      
114.   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS
      
115.   SIGNS AND OTHER ADVERTISEMENTS
      
116.   AMUSEMENTS
      
117.   AUCTIONS
      
118.   PAWNBROKERS
      
119.   REGULATION AND LICENSING OF MEDICAL CANNABIS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Soliciting telecommunication services; exemption
   
110.02   Secondhand and junk stores
   
110.03   Delivery persons, taxi drivers, and porters
   
110.04   Tattooing and body piercing
   
110.05   Exhibitions, shows, and amusements
§ 110.01 SOLICITING TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for hawkers, peddlers, solicitors, pawnbrokers,
ticket scalpers, and employment agencies to conduct business without out first
applying for and receiving a license to conduct such business.
   (B)   This section does not apply to the peddling or soliciting of
telecommunications services subject to the provisions of SDCL §§ 49-13-1 or 49-
31-1.
(Prior Code, § 110.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-18
§ 110.02 SECONDHAND AND JUNK STORES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate an antique, consignment, secondhand,
or junk store without first applying for and receiving a license from the
municipality.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for antique, consignment, secondhand, or junk
stores to purchase and/or receive from a minor any article without the written
consent of the minor’s parents or guardians.
(Prior Code, § 110.26) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-9
§ 110.03 DELIVERY PERSONS, TAXI DRIVERS, AND PORTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any parcel delivery person, bus drivers, cab
drivers, taxi drivers, porters, and others in similar occupations to engage in
such occupations without first applying for and receiving a license from the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 110.27) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-10
§ 110.04 TATTOOING AND BODY PIERCING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to engage in the practice of tattooing
and body piercing without having first applied for and received a license to
engage in such practice from the municipality. Further, the municipality shall
inspect the tattooing and body piercing establishments. All tattooing and body
piercing establishments shall follow all standards for sanitation as adopted by
and set out by the Department of Health pursuant to SDCL §§ 34-1-17 et seq.
   (B)   (1)   The term, TATTOO, means to make marks or designs into the skin
by puncturing it and inserting indelible colors. TATTOOING includes
microblading and similar techniques used to partially or fully simulate natural
hair.
      (2)   The term, BODY PIERCING, means to place a permanent or temporary
foreign object in a person's body for a decorative or other nonmedical purpose
by a person not directly under the supervision of a licensed physician as
defined by SDCL § 36-4-11.
(Prior Code, § 110.28) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-34-17
§ 110.05 EXHIBITIONS, SHOWS, AND AMUSEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to conduct in exhibitions, shows, and
amusements without first applying for and obtaining a license from the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 110.29) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: LICENSING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   License procedure
   
111.02   Temporary and special events on city property
   
111.03   Arborist
   
111.04   Electrician or plumber
   
111.05   Temporary structure permit and regulations
   
111.06   Unlawful to obstruct streets, sidewalks, and the like
Solid Waste Collectors and Haulers
   
111.20   Issuance of license; fee
   
111.21   Washing and sanitizing vehicles
   
111.22   Premises for vehicle parking/service
   
111.23   Revocation of license
   
111.24   Contract authorized
   
111.25   Rates by resolution; collection
Business Licenses
   
111.40   General license
   
111.41   Application
   
111.42   Fee
   
111.43   Terms
Commercial Private Property
   
111.55   Licensing required
   
111.56   Definitions
   
111.57   Procedures for revocation of business license
   
111.58   Temporary food service structures
   
111.59   Location of temporary merchants
   
111.60   Setbacks
   
111.61   Issuing authority
   
111.62   Site and sign plan
   
111.63   Compliance with codes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 LICENSE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Qualifications for applicants. The general standards herein set out
relative to the qualifications of every applicant for a city license shall be
considered and applied by the city’s License Officer. The applicant shall:
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United States or a declarant therefor or a
resident alien as authorized by federal law;
      (2)   Not, either individually or as a member of any party, group, or
organization at the time of any such application for a license or special
permit, advocate or resort to any practices subversive of or designed for the
overthrow, destruction, or sabotage of the government of the United States in
violation of federal law;
      (3)   Be of good moral character and in making such determination the
city’s License Officer shall consider:
         (a)   All convictions, the reasons therefor, and the actions of the
applicant subsequent to his or her release;
         (b)   The license history of the applicant; whether such person, in
previously operating in this or another state under a license, has had such
license revoked or suspended, the reasons therefor, and the demeanor of the
applicant subsequent to such action; and
         (c)   Such other facts relevant to the general personal history of the
applicant as he or she shall find necessary to fair determination of the
eligibility of the applicant.
      (4)   Not be in default under the provisions of this chapter or indebted
or obligated in any manner to the city except for current taxes; and
      (5)   Present a certificate of occupancy furnished by the Building
Inspector to the effect that the proposed use of any premises is not a
violation of the city’s zoning regulations.
   (B)   Liability of violator.
      (1)   The amount of any unpaid fee, the payment of which is required
under this chapter, shall constitute a debt due the city.
      (2)   The City Attorney shall, at the direction of the License Officer,
institute civil suit in the name of the city to recover any such unpaid fee.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.02 TEMPORARY AND SPECIAL EVENTS ON CITY PROPERTY.
   Permits and licenses for vendors, peddlers, temporary merchants, and
temporary structures shall not be issued for use on city property, including
parks, streets, sidewalks, alleys, boulevards, or rights-of-way, except for
designated city events or as otherwise permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.03 ARBORIST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or occupation
of pruning, spraying, treating, or removing trees within the city without the
license issued by the city. Each applicant therefor shall furnish evidence of
general liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence and
$2,000,000 aggregate coverage.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 ELECTRICIAN OR PLUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as an electrician
or electrical contractor within the jurisdiction of the city unless such person
is licensed under state law. The electrician or plumber shall furnish to the
city satisfactory evidence of his or her license with the state before a
contractor’s license can be issued.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 TEMPORARY STRUCTURE PERMIT AND REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLAME RETARDANT OR FLAME RESISTANT TARPS. These tarps shall have a physical
marking or tag attached to the tarp which shows that the tarp has been tested
and declared FLAME RESISTANT AND/OR FLAME RETARDANT. Tarps not bearing this
physical insignia shall not be accepted.
   PERMANENT BARRIER. A wall or fence which has been constructed as a permanent
attachment to property and is a minimum five feet in height and has openings
which are no longer than four inches in either direction.
   PERMANENT BUSINESS. A place of business which is in physical operation and
open to the public at one stationary location for a period of not less than 300
days a year and has a permanent state sales tax license for said location.
   PERMANENT STRUCTURE. Established for 365 days a year and complying with the
Uniform Building Code for the occupancy, which is utilizing the structure.
   SEASONAL BUSINESS. A place of business which is in physical operation and
open to the public at one location for a period not exceeding 300 days but more
than 30 days and has a permanent state sales tax license for said location.
   TEMPORARY BUSINESS. A place of business which is in physical operation and
open to the public at one or more location for a period not exceeding 30 days.
(A merchant’s license will be required for this classification of business.)
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. Any vending stand, reviewing stand, canopy, tent,
awning, fence, or other miscellaneous structure which is intended for use on a
temporary basis.
      (1)   (a)   Temporary structures, such as vending stands, reviewing
stands, canopies, tents, awnings, fences, and miscellaneous structures may be
erected in areas zoned Highway Service and General Commercial, provided that a
special temporary structure permit is obtained for each stand. Said permit
shall be issued by the Building Official or her or his designee for a period to
not exceed 30 days per location. This 30-day time frame shall include set up
and tear down time.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, “location” shall be the site on
which the TEMPORARY STRUCTURE is first constructed or placed. A TEMPORARY
STRUCTURE may not be disassembled and reconstructed or moved to a different
location on the same property or parcel of land, or an adjacent parcel of land,
after an initial permit is issued for the structure.
      (2)   The structural frame of all TEMPORARY STRUCTURES shall be made of
steel, aluminum, PVC, or wood. If constructed of wood, the smallest wood member
shall not be less than two inches by four inches in width.
         (a)   Wood used for the interior and exterior skins of a temporary
structure may be as follows: one-half of an inch of plywood, one-half of an
inch of chipboard, or particle board.
         (b)   WOOD, as defined above, may also be used for shelving a
TEMPORARY STRUCTURE.
         (c)   Tarps which are utilized on TEMPORARY STRUCTURES and which are
occupied by temporary merchants, shall be flame retardant or flame resistant as
defined in this chapter. All tarps not complying with this chapter shall be
removed.
      (3)   All TEMPORARY STRUCTURES shall be removed upon expiration of the
time limit stated on the permit.
      (4)   (a)   If the structure is not removed by the expiration date stated
on the permit, the city shall remove the structure without further notice to
the owner and shall charge the cost of the removal to the property owner.
         (b)   At the time the permit is issued, the Building Official or his
or his designee shall provide the owner with a copy of the ordinance codified
in this chapter.
         (c)   The owner or occupant of the stand shall sign the permit, which
will serve as an acceptance of service and which will constitute sufficient
notice that the structure is not to be placed for more than 30 days.
         (d)   The city may bring action in magistrate or circuit court for the
recovery of costs incurred for the removal of said structure or structures.
      (5)   TEMPORARY STRUCTURES or appendages thereof shall not be placed
closer than five feet to any public road or alley.
      (6)   The permit hereinbefore described may be suspended or revoked if at
any time the structure or its occupants are in violation of city ordinances or
state laws.
      (7)   Temporary structures may not be used for housing permanent or
seasonal businesses.
(Ord. 5.01C, passed 6-5-2008)
§ 111.06 UNLAWFUL TO OBSTRUCT STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to encumber
or obstruct any sidewalk, street, public way, public alley, or public ground in
the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to leave
standing or store any vehicle, structure, or object in any public right-of-way,
street, sidewalk, or on public ground which obstructs the use of the same for
travel and passage.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit
merchandise to be kept, stored, or displayed, whether for sale or exchange,
upon any public right-of-way, street, sidewalk, or public ground unless
otherwise authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 5.01C, passed 6-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS AND HAULERS
§ 111.20 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   No person shall use the streets or alleys of the city for the
collection or removal of any garbage for hire without first having obtained a
license to perform such services from the Board of Commissioners under this
subchapter and having paid a license fee referred to in the fee schedule
adopted by resolution. The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set
forth herein from time to time by resolution.
   (B)   Each license issued under this subchapter shall be renewed on or
before December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 WASHING AND SANITIZING VEHICLES.
   All vehicles used for the collection and hauling of garbage by licensed
garbage collectors shall be washed and sanitized and records of the same shall
be available to the Public Works Administrator.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.22 PREMISES FOR VEHICLE PARKING/SERVICE.
   The premises on which commercial garbage vehicles licensed under this
subchapter are parked or serviced shall be kept free of rubble, trash, debris,
or garbage.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.23 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Board of Commissioners may revoke, suspend, or refuse to issue or
transfer any license under this subchapter to any licensee or applicant who
fails to comply with the requirements of this chapter or engages in unfair
business practices. The Board of Commissioners shall give 15-days’ written
notice prior to hearing.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.24 CONTRACT AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the power to collect and dispose of and
regulate the manner of handling garbage and other waste material, to fix and
collect charges for such services, and to contract with one or more persons or
legal entities for the collection and hauling of garbage and other waste
material within and from the municipality.
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of licensing persons, firms, or corporations
to collect and haul garbage, pursuant to §
111.20, upon the adoption by the Board of Commissioners of a resolution in
proper form, the Board of Commissioners may enter into a contract for the
collecting and hauling of garbage.
   (C)   Whether any such contract is exclusive, the terms of such contract,
and whether the contract pertains to the collection of garbage from residential
dwellings, commercial locations, or a combination of both shall be determined
by resolution.
(Ord. 5.01 I, passed 1-15-2015)
§ 111.25 RATES BY RESOLUTION; COLLECTION.
   If the municipality enters into a contract for the collection and hauling of
garbage or other solid waste material, rates shall be established and billed as
set forth by resolution. The City Finance Officer shall collect all delinquent
fees in any manner or procedure authorized by state law.
(Ord. 5.01 I, passed 1-15-2015)
BUSINESS LICENSES
§ 111.40 GENERAL LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person engaged, or hereafter engaged, in carrying on,
maintaining, pursuing, conducting, or transacting in the city a trade,
business, occupation, calling, or pursuit shall obtain from the city the
license herein specified and in the manner as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   The foregoing notwithstanding, a business license is not required for
providing childcare in a residence zone unless a conditional use permit is
required.
(Ord. 5.01D, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 111.41 APPLICATION.
   (A)   City business licenses are not difficult to obtain. Applications are
located at the city’s Finance Office or can be printed out on the city’s
webpage.
   (B)   City business licensing personnel will review the form’s checklist
with the applicant, either in person or over the telephone, to determine what
documentation she or he will need to submit prior to the issuance of her or his
new license.
(Ord. 5.01D, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 111.42 FEE.
    All business licensing for businesses operating within the city limits of
Summerset will pay a fee for initial licensing, and annual renewal licensing
due on the first day of the year. Applications and payments made after January
1 are subject to a late fee. Refer to fee schedule adopted by resolution. The
Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to
time by resolution.
(Ord. 5.01G, passed 3-3-2011; Ord. 2022-10, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 111.43 TERMS.
   The fee listed is collected upon application and is effective until change
of ownership of the business or discontinuance of the business.
(Ord. 5.01G, passed 3-3-2011)
COMMERCIAL PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 111.55 LICENSING REQUIRED.
   (A)   All owners of commercially zoned private property who allow vendors to
sell goods on their property shall be required to first obtain a license.
   (B)   The fee for a commercially zoned private property owner license shall
be referred to in the fee schedule adopted by resolution. The Board of
Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to time by
resolution.
   (C)   Each license issued under this subchapter shall be renewed on or
before December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE OWNER LICENSE. A permit issued by the city for commercial property
owners inside the corporate limits. Each license issued under this subchapter
shall be renewed on or before December 31 of each year.
   VENDOR. A person, firm, corporation, partnership, or association or agent
thereof who sells retail goods outside the confines of a permanent structure on
another’s commercially zoned private property, including vendors located on any
convention center parking lot.
   VENDOR LICENSE. A permit issued by the Community Development Specialist for
vendors operating on licensed commercially zoned private property, including
vendors located on any convention center parking lot.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.57 PROCEDURES FOR REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the specific provisions applicable to particular
licenses or permits in this title, the Board of Commissioners may revoke any
license or permit issued under this title after it has been issued, when any
one or more of the following grounds are found to exist:   
      (1)   Illegal issuance of the permit or license;
      (2)   Issuance of the permit or license without authority or power;
      (3)   Issuance under an unauthorized ordinance or under an ordinance
illegally adopted;
      (4)   Issuance in violation of an ordinance;
      (5)   When the business license or permit was procured by fraud or false
representation of facts;
      (6)   When issued through mistake or inadvertence; and/or
      (7)   When the license or permit application contains false or misleading
statements, evasions or suppression of material facts.
   (B)   Other grounds for revocation in addition to those stated in division
(A) of this section are as follows:
      (1)   Substantial violations of the terms and conditions on which a
license or permit is issued;
      (2)   Violation of ordinances or laws authorizing or regulating the
license or permit or regulating the business activity or purpose for which the
license or permit is issued;
      (3)   Infractions or offenses under such an ordinance or law;
      (4)   Wrongful behavior of a substantial character and of a public
concern in relation to the licensed activity; and
      (5)   When reasonably necessary in the interests of protection of the
public health, safety, peace or welfare.
   (C)   Before any such license or permit shall be canceled or revoked, the
holder of such license or permit shall be given two weeks’ notice of a hearing
to be held by the Board of Commissioners at which time the holder of such
license or permit must show cause why such license or permit should not be
revoked. The notice to be given to the holder of such license or permit must
state the grounds and the reasons for the forfeiture, cancellation and/or
revocation, and must also sate the date on which the hearing is set. Provided,
however, the City Administrator may immediately revoke the license or permit of
any business or activity for any of the grounds set forth in division (A) of
this section, when any such license or permit has been issued for a period of
less than 72 hours, and any such determination by the City Administrator shall
be deemed conclusive unless the holder of the license or permit appeals to the
Board of Commissioners within five calendar days of the notice of revocation.
Pending any such appeal to the Board of Commissioners, the license or permit
shall remain revoked.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.58 TEMPORARY FOOD SERVICE STRUCTURES.
   All temporary food service structures shall have asphalt, concrete, wood, or
a similar material for flooring and shall display inspection certificate from
the county’s Environmental Health Department.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.59 LOCATION OF TEMPORARY MERCHANTS.
   (A)   Temporary shall only be located on private property zoned C-1, C-2,
and CC. Temporary merchant’s licenses shall not be issued on public property
except for designated community events. If a designated community event held
exclusively on public property, temporary merchant fees may be waived for
merchants participating in community events. Any designated or undesignated
event that proposes to restrict, in any manner, public access to public
property shall not be approved and temporary merchants permits shall not be
issued.
   (B)   Upon approval of the Board of Commissioners, vehicular access to
public streets may be restricted to accommodate the needs of a designated
community event.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.60 SETBACKS.
   All temporary structures that follow existing zoning ordinances regarding
setbacks in C-1, C-2, and CC zoning and such setback area may be used for off-
street parking.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.61 ISSUING AUTHORITY.
   All permits for temporary structures shall be issued by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.62 SITE AND SIGN PLAN.
   The city may require the applicant to file a site and/or sign plan drawn to
scale showing the location and size of all structures and signs upon the lot,
including the location of off-street parking.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
§ 111.63 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   Temporary structures need not apply with the Uniform Building Code, Uniform
Fire Code, or Electrical or Plumbing Codes as adopted by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-7-2007)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License requirement
   
112.03   Application procedure
   
112.04   Standards for issuance
   
112.05   Revocation procedure
   
112.06   Standards for revocation
   
112.07   Appeal procedure
   
112.08   Exhibition of identification
   
112.09   Municipal policy on soliciting
   
112.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
112.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
112.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise, services, or information of any description whatsoever
and includes, but is not restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the municipality and
who, in the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure,
vehicle, or any place within the municipality.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the municipality.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a “peddler.”
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A) Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the municipality.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the governing body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the President of a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the municipality;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or
delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as
from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or grown
and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration
number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the municipality, credentials from the
person, if any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing
the applicant to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
§ 112.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
112.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 110.05)
§ 112.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 110.06)
§ 112.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
112.04 or
112.06 shall have the right to appeal to the governing body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the governing body, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The governing body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
112.05.
   (B)   The order of the governing body after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)
§ 112.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the municipality shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter.
   (C)   The license shall contain the words “licensed peddler” or “licensed
solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the license.
   (D)   The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as she or
he is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 MUNICIPAL POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the municipality that the
occupants of the residences in the municipality shall make the determination of
whether solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective
residences.
(Prior Code, § 110.09)
§ 112.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words
as follows:
 
NO SOLICITORS INVITED
 
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third of an inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Police Chief to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Prior Code, § 110.10)
§ 112.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the municipality upon which a residence is located to first examine the
notice provided for in §
112.10, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “no solicitors invited,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 110.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
112.10.
(Prior Code, § 110.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
Authority to regulate and license transient merchants, peddlers, see SDCL § 9-
34-7
CHAPTER 113: REGULATION AND LICENSING OF LIQUOR OPERATIONS
Section
General
   
113.01   Definitions
Licensing and Sales
   
113.15   Permanent licenses
   
113.16   Temporary licenses and permits
   
113.17   Off-sale licenses to operate within municipality
   
113.18   On-sale licenses
   
113.19   Convention facility on-sale licenses
   
113.20   Malt beverage licenses
   
113.21   Times when sales prohibited
   
113.22   Application for license
   
113.23   Hearing on application
   
113.24   Renewal of license
   
113.25   Transfer of license
   
113.26   Distribution of license and transfer fees and penalties
   
113.27   Off-sale licensees permitted to provide free samples; no additional
license required; restrictions
   
113.28   Off-sale delivery license
   
113.29   Manufacture, sale, or possession of powdered, condensed, or
concentrated alcohol prohibited; exceptions
Municipal Liquor Operations
   
113.45   Municipal application and renewal
   
113.46   Management of municipal liquor licenses
   
113.47   Operating agreements
   
113.48   Municipality holding required license authorized to serve food,
prepared food, and beverages
Age Requirements
   
113.60   Sale to prohibited persons
   
113.61   Minors on premises
   
113.62   Exception to prohibition on sales or service by persons under 21 years
old
Statutory reference:
   Licensing policies and procedures, see SDCL §§ 35-2-1 et seq.
GENERAL
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages as
defined SDCL Title 35.
   BULK CONTAINER. Any package, or any container within which container are one
or more packages.
   CARRIER. A person who for hire transports passengers and who sells or
furnishes to passengers for consumption alcoholic beverages aboard any means of
conveyance or allows passengers to consume the passenger's own alcoholic
beverages aboard the conveyance.
   CIDER. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the juice of
apples or pears that contains not less than one-half of 1% of alcohol by volume
and not more than 10% of alcohol by weight, including flavored, sparkling, or
carbonated cider.
   CONTROLLING INTEREST IN. An ownership interest in the licensee of 10% or
more.
   DEPARTMENT. Department of Revenue of the State of South Dakota.
   DISPENSER. A duly licensed physician, dentist, veterinarian, osteopath,
podiatrist, chiropractor, or pharmacist; or a druggist, sanitarium, hospital,
clinic, educational institution, industrial company, or industrial corporation
who purchases alcohol for scientific and medicinal purposes only.
   DISTILLED SPIRITS. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, and other distilled spirits, including all dilutions
and mixtures thereof, for nonindustrial use containing not less than one-half
of 1% of alcohol by weight.
   MALT BEVERAGE. A beverage made by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion
or decoction, or combination of both, in potable brewing water, of malted
barley with hops, or their parts, or their products, or any other similar
product, and with or without other malted cereals, and with or without the
addition of unmalted or prepared cereals, other carbohydrates or products
prepared therefrom, and with or without the addition of carbon dioxide, and
with or without other wholesome products suitable for human consumption
containing not less than one-half of one percent of alcohol by weight.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who owns, has a controlling interest in, operates,
or aids in operating any establishment for the brewing, production, bottling,
or blending of any alcoholic beverage, whether occurring within or without this
state.
   MINIBAR. Any closed container, either refrigerated or nonrefrigerated,
having restricted access to the interior by means of a locking device that
requires the use of a key, magnetic card, or similar device, or controlled by
the licensee at all times.
   MUNICIPALITY. Any incorporated city or town, and any unincorporated platted
town having a United States post office. However, the subsequent withdrawal of
a United States post office does not affect the right of established liquor
licenses to be continued, renewed, or transferred and does not prevent the
owner or bona fide lessee of the licensed premises from receiving a renewal or
reissuance of such license.
   OFF-SALE. The sale of any alcoholic beverage, for consumption off the
premises where sold.
   ON-SALE. The sale of any alcoholic beverage for consumption only upon the
premises where sold.
   ON-SALE DEALER. Any person who sells, or keeps for sale, any alcoholic
beverage for consumption on the premises where sold.
   PACKAGE. The bottle or immediate container of any alcoholic beverage.
   PACKAGE DEALER. Any person other than a manufacturer, or wholesaler, who
sells, or keeps for sale, any alcoholic beverage for consumption off the
premises where sold.
   POPULATION. Number of inhabitants as determined by the last preceding
federal census.
   POWDERED, CONDENSED, or CONCENTRATED ALCOHOL. An alcoholic product that is
created using a process that reduces the alcohol to a concentrated form and
that allows the alcohol to be reconstituted with water or other liquid.
   RELATIVE. Any person who is a husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister,
father, or mother.
   RETAIL LICENSE. An on-sale or off-sale license issued under the provisions
of SDCL Title 35.
   RETAILER or RETAIL DEALER. Any person who sells alcoholic beverages for
other than resale.
   SALE. The transfer, for consideration, of title to any alcoholic beverage.
   SECRETARY. The secretary of revenue of the State of South Dakota.
   SERVE. The taking of an order for an alcoholic beverage and intentionally
delivering the alcoholic beverage to a customer for the purpose of consumption
on the licensed premises and the customer takes physical possession of the
alcoholic beverage.
   TRANSPORTATION COMPANY or TRANSPORTER. Any common carrier or operator of a
private vehicle transporting or accepting for transportation any alcoholic
beverages, but not including transportation by carriers in interstate commerce
where the shipment originates outside of the state and is destined to a point
outside of the state.
   WHOLESALER. Any person who sells alcoholic beverages to retailers for
resale.
   WINE. Any beverage made from the fermentation of grapes, grape juice, other
fruit bases, or honey, with or without adding alcoholic beverages; without
rectification, except for the purpose of fortification; and contains not less
than 0.5% and not more than 24% alcohol by volume.
(SDCL § 35-1-1)
LICENSING AND SALES
§ 113.15 PERMANENT LICENSES.
   The following are the fees to be paid for the various classes of licenses:
SDCL § 35-4-2 DivisionClass of License Fees
SDCL § 35-4- Class of       Fees
2 Division    License
              Wholesalers of
(2)           alcoholic      $5,000
              beverages
(3)           Off-sale       Not less than $300
             Off-sale       Not to exceed $500
              (Renewal)
(4)           On-sale        Not less than $1 for each person residing within the municipality as measured
                             by the last preceding federal census
             Renewal fee    Not to exceed $1,500
              Off-sale
              licenses
(5)           issued to      Not less than $250
              municipalities
              under local
              option
                             Not less than the amount the nearest municipality to the applicant is charging
              On-sale        for a like license. The renewal fee shall be the same as is charged for a like
              licenses       license in the nearest municipality. If the municipality to which the
(6)           issued outside applicant is nearest holds an on-sale license, pursuant to SDCL § 35-3-13 and
              of             does not charge a specified fee, then the fee shall be the minimum amount that
              municipalities could be charged as if the municipality had not been authorized to obtain on-
                             sale licenses pursuant to SDCL § 35-3-13. The renewal fee shall be the same as
                             could be charged for a like license in the nearest municipality
(8)        Transportation $25
              companies
(9)        Carrier        $100
                             The fee licenses all conveyances the licensee operates in this state
              On-sale
              dealers (at
(11)          publicly       $250
              operated
              airports)
              Wine and cider
              retailers,
              being both
(12)          package        $500
              dealers and
              on-sale
              dealers
              Convention     Not less than $1 for each person residing within the municipality as measured
(13)          facility (on-  by the last federal census
              sale)
             Renewal fee    Not to exceed $1,500
(15)          Wholesalers of $400
              malt beverages
              Malt beverage
              and wine
              produced by a
              farm winery
(16)          licensee,      $300
              being both
              package
              dealers and
              on-sale
              dealers
              Retail on
(21)          premises       $250
              manufacturer
(23)          Off-sale       $150
              delivery
 
(Ord. 2022-17, passed 1-5-2023) (SDCL § 35-4-2)
§ 113.16 TEMPORARY LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The municipality is authorized to issue the following licenses:
   (A)   Airport license to be used for convention or entertainment purposes.
      (1)    Any municipality with a population in excess of 35,000 which
operates an airport pursuant to SDCL Chapter 50-7 and holds a license pursuant
to SDCL §§ 35-4-14, shall also be authorized to use the license at any bona
fide convention activity or entertainment activity including, but not limited
to: any theatrical or musical performance, rodeo or traveling show if the event
is held at a convention hall.
      (2)   The selling, serving or dispensing of any alcoholic beverage may
not occur earlier than one hour before the commencement of the event, or at any
time after the event is concluded. All sales must occur within areas designated
for that purpose.
   (B)   Five-day convention hall licenses. 
      (1)   Such license shall be issued without regard to population
limitations established by law.
      (2)   Any municipality with a population exceeding 100,000 or any
municipality hosting an annual event attended by 100,000 or more people may
issue an on-sale license to be operated at a sporting event held at a publicly
owned sports arena or facility seating a minimum of 1,000 persons. Before a
license may be issued in a municipality hosting an annual event, the municipal
finance officer shall estimate the previous year's attendance and provide the
estimate to the governing body.
      (3)   Any license issued pursuant to this subdivision may be issued for a
period not to exceed five consecutive days and will expire at 12:00 midnight on
the fifth day after issuance.
      (4)   No public hearing is required if the individual applying for the
license holds an on-sale alcoholic beverage license in the municipality or
holds an operating agreement for municipal on-sale alcoholic beverage license.
No person who holds an operating agreement for a municipal license pursuant to
SDCL § 35-4-14.1 may receive a license pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Special malt beverage retailer's license and special retail on-sale
wine dealer's license.
      (1)    This license may be issued to any civic, charitable, educational
or fraternal organization in conjunction with a special event.
      (2)   The fee is $5 per day for a period not to exceed 15 consecutive
days.
      (3)   This license shall be issued in the same manner as other malt
beverage licenses, except that the state does not have to grant approval and
the license fee remains in the municipality.
   (D)   Spiking permit.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to consume any intoxicating liquor or
mix an alcoholic beverage in any public place other than an on-sale
establishment.
      (2)   The governing body may grant authorization for persons to consume
or blend alcoholic beverages on property that is publicly owned or owned by a
nonprofit corporation. The permit period shall not exceed 24 hours and the
hours or authorization shall not exceed those permitted for on-sale licenses.
   (E)   Organizational special events. The municipality may issue a special
events temporary on-sale liquor license if the applicant is recognized as an
exempt organization under the US Internal Revenue Code, and the licensee holds
a malt beverage retailer license within the municipality. The license may be
issued for a period of time not to exceed two consecutive days.
§ 113.17 OFF-SALE LICENSES TO OPERATE WITHIN MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   Except as provided in SDCL § 35-4-2(12) and (16), off-sale licenses
may only be issued under this chapter to operate within a municipality or an
improvement district created pursuant to SDCL Chapter 7-25A.
(SDCL § 35-4-6)
   (B)   No more than two off-sale licenses issued pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-2(3)
and (5) may be issued under SDCL Title 35 to operate in a municipality of1,000
or less and not exceeding one license for every additional 1,500 of population
or fraction thereof.
   (C)   The number of off-sale licenses may not be less than the total number
of licenses allowable as of July 1, 1981, and that have never been revoked or
not reissued.
(SDCL § 35-4-10)
§ 113.18 ON-SALE LICENSES.
   (A)   Pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-11, if not fixed by ordinance, the governing
board of the municipality may on or before September 1 in each year, by
resolution, determine the number of on-sale and off-sale licenses it will
approve for the ensuing calendar year, and the fees to be charged for the
various classifications of licenses.
   (B)   The number of on-sale licenses issued may not exceed three each for
the first 1,000 of population or fraction thereof and not exceed one each of
such licenses for each additional 1,500 of population or fraction thereof.
   (C)   The number of licenses allowable may not be less than the total number
of licenses allowable or issued as of July 1, 1981. The municipal governing
board shall at such meeting establish the fee for on-sale licenses pursuant to
§
113.15(A)(4) and (13). Such fee shall apply to all such on-sale licenses issued
in the ensuing calendar year. The quotas established in this section do not
apply to licenses issued pursuant to §
113.15(A)(12), (16), (17), and (17A).
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, population is equal to 90% of the
population estimates published by the United States Census Bureau for each
even-numbered year, except for the decennial year. For a decennial year,
population is equal to the amount determined by the decennial federal census.
No license issued pursuant to this section which exceeds the number of licenses
that would have been issued upon the decennial federal census may be denied
solely by reason that the license exceeds the number of licenses authorized by
the decennial federal census.
(SDCL § 35-4-11)
§ 113.19 CONVENTION FACILITY ON-SALE LICENSES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of SDCL § 35-4-11, each municipality
may issue two convention facility on-sale licenses pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-2
(13) for convention facilities substantially constructed within the two years
following issuance of the license or previously completed.
   (B)   If located in a municipality with a population of 20,000 or greater,
the hotel-motel convention facility shall be used and kept open for the hosting
of large groups of guests for compensation and shall have at least 100 rooms
that are suitable lodging accommodations and convention facilities with seating
for at least 400 persons.
   (C)   If located in a municipality with a population of less than 20,000,
the hotel-motel convention facility shall have at least 40 rooms that are
suitable lodging accommodations and convention facilities with seating for at
least 150 persons.
   (D)   If a municipality's population changes, the facility is only required
to meet the criteria established by this section for the license at the time
the license was originally issued.
(SDCL § 35-4-11.2)
§ 113.20 MALT BEVERAGE LICENSES.
   The municipality may issue as many malt beverage licenses as it deems
necessary.
§ 113.21 TIMES WHEN SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No on-sale or off-sale licensee, licensed under §
113.15(A)(3), (4), (5), (6), (9), (11), (13), or (18), may sell, serve, or
allow to be consumed on the premises covered by the license, alcoholic
beverages between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. or on Sunday after 2:00
a.m., on Memorial Day after 2:00 a.m., or at any time on Christmas Day.
However, this municipality may, by ordinance, allow the sale, service, and
consumption of alcoholic beverages on Sundays, Christmas Day and/or Memorial
Day.
(SDCL § 35-4-81)
   (B)   No on-sale or off-sale licensee licensed under §
113.15(A)(12), (16), (17), (17A),(19) and (20) may sell, serve, or allow to be
consumed on the premises covered by the license, any alcoholic beverages
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(SDCL § 35-4-81.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.22 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   An application for any license shall be on the form prescribed by the
Department of Revenue. All applications for retail licenses, except those cited
in SDCL § 35-2-1.1 shall be submitted to the governing body. The municipality
shall approve or disapprove the application based on the grounds that the
applicant is a suitable person and that the proposed location is suitable.
   (B)   The governing body shall review the following factors in determining
whether or not a video lottery machine shall be permitted in establishments
issued an on-sale alcoholic beverage license pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-2(12) and
(16):
      (1)   The number of current establishments currently licenses for video
lottery;
      (2)   The proximity of the business to other establishments licensed for
video lottery;
      (3)   The type of business and manner in which the applicant proposes to
operate it;
      (4)   The location of the business in relation to other businesses,
residential areas, or activities within the same general area;
      (5)   The extent to which minors frequent a business connected to the one
proposed; and
      (6)   The effect the proposed business has on economic development.
   (C)    The governing body is to certify on each application filed with the
Department for a license granted under §
113.15(A)(12) and (16) whether the business premises is authorized for video
lottery machine placement.
   (D)   An existing video lottery license may not be denied renewal or
transfer based upon the criteria set out in division (B). The lottery may issue
a video lottery license to those establishments certified pursuant to this
section. Notwithstanding the above provisions, the municipality may not
restrict the number of alcoholic beverage licenses issued under §
113.15(A)(12) and (16) and certified for video lottery to a number less than
those licensed as video lottery establishments on March 1, 1994.
(SDCL § 42-7A-64)
§ 113.23 HEARING ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   The municipality shall hold a hearing on the application for a
license. Notice of the hearing must be published one time, one week prior to
the hearing in the official newspaper. Any resident who requests written notice
of the hearing must be notified accordingly.
   (B)   (1)   If the application is denied after the hearing, the fee is
returned to the applicant. If after the hearing, the application is granted,
the fee is deposited in the general fund and the application is forwarded to
the secretary of the Department, who can accept or reject the application.
      (2)   If the application is for a malt beverage license, only one-half of
the fee is deposited in the general fund. The other one-half is forwarded to
the secretary of the Department.
   (C)   A license cannot be reissued to the same applicant for a one-year
period if the license has not been actively used by the applicant during the
previous two years.
§ 113.24 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   If the applicant already holds a license and is applying for the same
class of license at the same location for the next license year, then only the
approval of the governing body is necessary to issue the license for the new
year.
   (B)   One copy of the application is forwarded to the Department and a new
card will be issued by the Department with an appropriate expiration date. The
mayor or chairperson the governing board shall sign the new card in the lower
right hand corner to properly validate the card.
§ 113.25 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The procedure for a transfer of license is the same as for application
for a new license. The fee for a transfer is $150. An affidavit of bulk sale
and the existing license card must be submitted with the application for
transfer.
   (B)   The application to transfer the license shall only be permitted if all
municipal and state sales and use taxes incurred by the licensee as a result of
the operation have been paid, and all property taxes, which are the liability
of the licensee are paid or are not delinquent.
§ 113.26 DISTRIBUTION OF LICENSE AND TRANSFER FEES AND PENALTIES.
   Fifty percent of all license and transfer fees received pursuant to
subdivision SDCL § 35-4-2(16) shall remain in the municipality in which the
licensee paying the fee is located. If the licensee is located outside the
corporate limits of a municipality, 50% of the fees remain in the county in
which the licensee is located. The remainder of all license and transfer fees
and penalties received shall be credited to the state general fund.
(SDCL § 35-4-2.11)
§ 113.27 OFF-SALE LICENSEES PERMITTED TO PROVIDE FREE SAMPLES; NO ADDITIONAL
LICENSE REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A licensee holding a license pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-2(3) or (5) may
provide samples of malt beverages, wine, distilled spirits, liqueurs, and
cordials to the general public without obtaining an additional license. The
licensee may only offer as samples the malt beverages, wine, distilled spirits,
liqueurs, and cordials that the licensee currently has in stock and is offering
for sale to the general public.
   (B)   The malt beverage, wine, distilled spirits, liqueur, and cordial
samples shall be dispensed at no charge and shall be consumed on the licensed
premises during the permitted hours of off-sale.
   (C)   No sample of malt beverage may be larger than three fluid ounces. No
sample of wine may be larger than 50 milliliters and no sample of distilled
spirits, liqueur, or cordial may be larger than 25 milliliters.
(SDCL § 35-4-10.2)
§ 113.28 OFF-SALE DELIVERY LICENSE.
   (A)   A licensee licensed pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-2(3) or (5) may apply for
an off-sale delivery license as provided by SDCL § 35-4-2(23) to deliver
alcoholic beverages to a consumer within the boundaries of the municipality
that issued the off-sale license. The alcoholic beverage for delivery shall be
purchased in person and on-site at the licensee's off-sale premises. The
minimum purchase of alcoholic beverages shall be $150.
   (B)   The delivery shall be made during hours of operation pursuant to SDCL
§ 35-4-81.2 by an employee of the licensee who is at least 21 years old. The
employee shall obtain the signature of a person twenty-one years old or older
before delivery of the shipment. The employee shall request that the person
signing for the delivery display a valid age-bearing photo identification
document issued by this state, another state, or the federal government
verifying that the person is twenty-one years old or older. Documentation
verifying the identification of the person signing for the delivery shall be
retained by the licensee for one year.
(SDCL § 35-4-127)
§ 113.29 MANUFACTURE, SALE, OR POSSESSION OF POWDERED, CONDENSED, OR
CONCENTRATED ALCOHOL PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Unless specifically allowed in this section, the manufacture, sale or
possession of alcohol in a powdered, condensed, or other concentrated form as
defined in §
113.01 or the sale or possession of an alcoholic beverage that is reconstituted
from alcohol in a powdered, condensed, or other concentrated form is
prohibited.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the following:
      (1)   Any hospital that possesses a product defined in SDCL § 35-1-1(17A)
and that possession is primarily used for conducting scientific research; or
      (2)   Any state institution, private college or university, or
pharmaceutical or biotechnical company that possesses a product defined in §
113.01 and that possession is primarily used for conducting bona fide research.
(SDCL § 35-4-128)
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR OPERATIONS
§ 113.45 MUNICIPAL APPLICATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Any applicant for a new retail license, except as set forth in SDCL §
35-2-1.1, or the transfer of an existing license shall submit an application to
the governing body of the municipality in which the applicant intends to
operate, or if outside the corporate limits of a municipality, to the governing
body of the county in which the applicant intends to operate. The applicant
shall submit the required fee with the application. The governing body may
approve the application for a new retail license or the transfer of an existing
license if the governing body considers the applicant suitable to hold the
license and the proposed location is suitable.
   (B)   The governing body may disapprove an application for a new retail
license or the transfer of an existing license issued under subdivision SDCL §
35-4-2(4), (6), or (13) if:
      (1)   The approval of the application permits a person, corporation, or
business entity to possess more than one-third of the licenses available to be
issued in the jurisdiction; and
      (2)   The governing body determines that possession of more than one-
third of licenses available is not in the public interest.
   (C)   Any application for the reissuance of a retail license may be approved
by the municipal or county governing body without a hearing unless in the past
year the licensee or one or more of the licensee’s employees have been
subjected to a criminal penalty for violation of the alcoholic beverage control
law or the license has been suspended.
(SDCL § 35-2-1.2)
§ 113.46 MANAGEMENT OF MUNICIPAL LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   The governing body shall operate and conduct the municipal liquor
establishment and if necessary, shall set the prices to be charged on all sales
of liquor.
   (B)   Gross receipts are to be submitted to the municipal finance officer
and disbursements from the fund shall only be made with presentation of
verified vouchers.
   (C)   The municipality shall keep a separate accounting of all transactions
involving purchases, sales and inventories conducted under each license.
   (D)   A municipality that holds an off-sale license pursuant to §
113.15(A)(5) is eligible for a license under §
113.15(A)(16) or (17) and any municipality holding a license under SDCL Chapter
35-4 is eligible for a retailer’s license under SDCL §
113.15(A)(17).
   (E)   Upon termination of the license, the governing board shall liquidate
the business operated and the assets of the business in such a manner as may be
determined by resolution, and is consistent with law.
§ 113.47 OPERATING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Licenses.
      (1)   On-sale and off-sale license.  
         (a)   Any municipality that has obtained a license under SDCL Title 35
may issue licenses pursuant to §
113.15 and SDCL § 35-4-2(12) and (16).
         (b)   If a municipality has been issued an off-sale license only, the
governing body may approve or disapprove applications for on-sale licenses
issued pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-2(4). If a municipality has been issued an on-
sale and off-sale license, the governing body may, by resolution, enter into an
operating agreement with any person for the specific purpose of operating an
on-sale establishment or an off-sale establishment, or both for the
municipality.
(SDCL § 35-4-19)
      (2)   Malt beverage license. The municipality may also enter into an
operating agreement with an individual to operate a malt beverage license that
the municipality owns.
      (3)   Off-sale license only. If a municipality has been issued an off-
sale license only, the governing body may, by resolution, enter into an
operating agreement with the manager of a legitimate operating business concern
for the specific purpose of operating the off-sale establishment for the
municipality.
(SDCL § 35-4-22)
   (B)   Provisions of agreement. An operating agreement under SDCL § 35-4-19
shall include:
      (1)   The manager is responsible for all operating expenses, including
taxes, insurance, and license fees, if any;
      (2)   The manager may dispense only alcoholic beverages supplied by the
municipal off-sale establishment;
      (3)   The agreement shall be for a period not to exceed five years with
the provision of one extension also not to exceed five years in the discretion
of the governing body;
      (4)   The agreement may be canceled by 90-days’ written notice by either
party;
      (5)   The manager shall pay for all alcoholic beverages supplied by the
municipal off-sale establishment, the actual cost price, the transportation
charges and markup, and any additional compensation or fee as may be mutually
agreed upon by both parties;
      (6)   A complete and detailed record shall be maintained by the
municipality of all alcoholic beverages supplied the on-sale manager. All
alcoholic beverages shall be evidenced by prenumbered invoices prepared in
triplicate showing the date, quantity, brand, size, and actual cost as set
forth in division (5) above. The invoices shall bear the signature of the on-
sale manager or the manager’s authorized representative. One copy of the
invoice shall be retained by the off-sale establishment, one copy shall be
retained by the on-sale establishment, and one copy shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk. All copies shall be kept as permanent records and made
available for reference and audit purposes.
(SDCL § 35-4-21)
   (C)   Purchase on credit. An operator may not purchase alcoholic beverages
on credit.
   (D)   Number of operating agreements. The number of operating agreements the
municipality may have is limited to the number of licenses a municipality can
issue.
§ 113.48 MUNICIPALITY HOLDING REQUIRED LICENSE AUTHORIZED TO SERVE FOOD,
PREPARED FOOD, AND BEVERAGES.
   Any municipality holding a license pursuant to SDCL Title 35 may serve or
provide for the service of food, prepared food, and beverages at any
establishment operating under such license.
(SDCL § 9-12-20)
AGE REQUIREMENTS
§ 113.60 SALE TO PROHIBITED PERSONS.
   (A)   No licensee may sell or serve any alcoholic beverage to any person who
is obviously intoxicated.
   (B)   However, no licensee is civilly liable to any injured person or the
injured person's estate for any injury suffered, including any action for
wrongful death, or property damage suffered because of the intoxication of any
person due to the sale or consumption of any alcoholic beverage in violation of
the provisions of this section.
(SDCL § 35-4-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.61 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   No on-sale or off-sale licensee may permit any person less than 21 years old
to loiter on the licensed premises or to sell, serve, dispense, or consume
alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises.
(SDCL § 35-4-79) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.62 EXCEPTION TO PROHIBITION ON SALES OR SERVICE BY PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS
OLD.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
113.61, above, any on-sale or off-sale licensee may permit persons 18 years old
or older to sell or serve alcoholic beverages if less than 50% of the gross
business transacted by the establishment is from the sale of alcoholic
beverages, or the licensee or an employee that is at least 21 years of age is
on the premises when the alcoholic beverage is sold or served.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the term, TO SELL OR SERVE ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES, does not include tending bar or drawing, pouring, or mixing
alcoholic beverages.
(SDCL § 35-4-79.4)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Classification
   
114.03   Inspection
Licensing
   
114.15   License required
   
114.16   Issuance
   
114.17   Fees
   
114.18   Expiration and suspension
   
114.19   Revocation
   
114.20   Transfer
Additional Regulations
   
114.35   Adult motels
   
114.36   Venues for adult film and entertainment
   
114.37   Escort agencies
   
114.38   Nude model studios
   
114.39   Public nudity
   
114.40   Prohibition against children in adult-oriented business
   
114.41   Hours of operation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated, or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video, or laser disc players, or other image-producing
devices are maintained to show images to five and fewer persons per machine at
any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment which, as one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or
rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or
ADULT VIDEO STORE; and
      (3)   Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. A PRINCIPAL BUSINESS PURPOSE
is defined as a substantial or significant portion of its stock or trade for
sale or rental, and characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment whether or not alcoholic beverages are served,
which regularly features persons who appear semi-nude.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, or nude model studio.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nude, or live performances which are characterized by an emphasis on
the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of an adult-
oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an EMPLOYEE, independent contractor, agent, or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or other
compensation by the operator of the business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. This means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any adult-oriented business as a new
business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult-
oriented business, to any adult-oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any adult-oriented business to any other existing
adult-oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any adult-oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate an adult-oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less than a fully opaque
covering, or the showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   REGULARLY FEATURED or REGULARLY SHOWN. A consistent or substantial course of
conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business
of the sexually oriented business.
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or the
showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, or
who displays specified anatomical areas and is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE MODEL STUDIO
shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state or a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or in part by public taxation;
a private college or university which maintains and operates educational
programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior college, or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a minor;
sexual performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography;
public lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in
organized criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; unlawful
gambling; or distribution of a controlled substance;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of another’s human genitals,
pubic region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) and (2) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT. The increase in floor areas occupied by the
business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist on the date this chapter
takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF AN ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS. This means
and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 114.02 CLASSIFICATION.
   Adult-oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies; and
   (H)   Nude model studios.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 114.03 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Adult-oriented businesses and adult-oriented business employees shall
permit officers or agents of the city to inspect, from time to time on an
occasional basis, the portions of the adult-oriented business premises where
patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the specific
regulations of this chapter, during those times when the adult-oriented
business is occupied by patrons or is open for business.
   (B)   A licensee who intentionally refuses to permit such an inspection
shall not constitute a misdemeanor, but shall constitute a violation of this
chapter for purposes of license denial, suspension, and/or revocation.
   (C)   This chapter shall be narrowly construed by the city to authorize
reasonable inspections of the licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but
not to authorize a harassing or excessive pattern of inspections.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
LICENSING
§ 114.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to own, manage, or operate an adult-oriented
business without a valid adult- oriented business license issued by city
pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   For any person to obtain employment as an escort, or operate as an
escort, without having secured an adult-oriented business escort license; and
      (3)   For any person who owns, manages, or operates an adult-oriented
business to employ an escort to work for the adult-oriented business who is not
licensed as an adult-oriented business escort.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by city.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide the
information (including fingerprints) as to enable city to determine whether the
applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate an adult-oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate an adult-oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has any financial interest in the business must
sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under the following section and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.16 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of the application for an adult-oriented business
employee license, the city shall issue a temporary license to the applicant.
The application shall then be referred to the appropriate city departments for
an investigation to be made on such information as is contained on the
application. The application process shall be completed within 30 days from the
date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the city
shall issue a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   The applicant has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   The adult-oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule, or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      (5)   The applicant has had an adult-oriented business employee license
revoked by city within two years of the date of the current application. If the
adult-oriented business employee license is denied, the temporary license
previously issued is immediately deemed null and void. Denial, suspension, or
revocation of a license issued pursuant to this section shall be subject to
appeal as set forth in §
114.18(A).
      (6)   An application shall be considered complete when it contains the
information required in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by city
that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal activity as
defined in this subchapter or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license, which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the
fee as set forth in §
114.18.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed adult-oriented business
application, the city shall approve the issuance of a license to the applicant
or shall issue a letter of intent to deny a license to the applicant. The city
shall approve the issuance of a license to an applicant unless it is determined
by a preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following findings
is true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him or her in relation to
any adult-oriented business;
      (3)   An applicant has been denied a license by the city to operate an
adult-oriented business within the preceding 12 months or whose license to
operate an adult-oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12
months;
      (4)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
defined in this chapter;
      (5)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; and
      (6)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   All business licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or
near the entrance to the adult- oriented business so that they may be easily
read at any time.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 114.17 FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a new adult-oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a non-refundable application and investigation fee. Refer to fee
schedule adopted by resolution. The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees
as set forth herein from time to time by resolution.
   (B)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every adult-oriented business that is granted a license shall pay to the city
an annual non-refundable license fee within 30 days of license issuance or
renewal. Refer to fee schedule adopted by resolution. The Board of
Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to time by
resolution.
   (C)   In addition, each applicant shall pay to the city an annual non-
refundable fee per employee. Refer to fee schedule adopted by resolution. The
Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to
time by resolution.
   (D)   Every application for an adult-oriented business escort license
(whether for a new license or renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable license fee. Refer to fee schedule adopted by
resolution. The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein
from time to time by resolution.
   (E)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the city’s
Finance Officer.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 114.18 EXPIRATION AND SUSPENSION.
   (A)   (1)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and
may be renewed only by making application as provided in this chapter.
Application for renewal shall be made at least 90 days before the expiration
date, and when made less than 90 days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the license will not be affected.
      (2)   When the city denies the renewal of a license, the applicant shall
not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
      (3)   If, subsequent to denial, the city finds that the basis for denial
of the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be
granted a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became
final.
   (B)   (1)   The city shall issue a letter of intent to suspend a license for
a period not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee or an employee
of a licensee has:
         (a)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
chapter; and
         (b)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult-oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
      (2)   Suspension of the license shall be effective 14 days after the
letter of intent to suspend is sent.
   (C)   The procedures for revocation of a business license in §
111.57 apply to the suspension or revocation of a license issued under this
chapter.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 114.19 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city shall issue a letter of intent to revoke a license if a cause
of suspension in §
114.18(B) occurs, and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months. Revocation of the license shall be effective 14 days after the letter
of intent to revoke is sent.
   (B)   The city shall issue a letter of intent to revoke a license if it
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the adult-oriented business during a
period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises;
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state
for any taxes or fees past due; and
      (7)   A licensee has been convicted of specified criminal activity as
defined in this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   When the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue
for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued an adult-oriented business
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective.
      (2)   If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective.
   (D)   (1)   After denial of an application, denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of the administrative action in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   The administrative action shall be promptly reviewed by the court.
   (E)   The procedures for revocation of an adult oriented business license in
§
111.57 apply to the suspension or revocation of a license issued under this
chapter.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 114.20 TRANSFER.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate an adult- oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 114.35 ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten hours creates a reputable presumption that
the establishment is an ADULT MOTEL as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does
not have an adult-oriented license, he or she rents or sub-rents a sleeping
room to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or
she rents or sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUB-RENT mean
the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 114.36 VENUES FOR ADULT FILM AND ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video store which exhibits on the
premises a film, video cassette, live entertainment, or other video
reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for an adult-oriented license, the application
shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan thereof
specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the location of
all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not exceed 32
square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place at which
the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared
diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be
required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some
designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all
areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The city may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if
the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that
the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the city.
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
or able to see electronic monitoring stations.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division (A)(5) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station
or by electronic monitoring.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials and, at all
times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot candles as measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes
exist.
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board, or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under division (A) above commits a misdemeanor
if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 114.37 ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 114.38 NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if the person
appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if the person
under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or visible to any
other person.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person appears in a state of nudity
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises; except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room opens to the public.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 114.39 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person who knowingly and intentionally, in
an adult-oriented business, appears in a state of nudity or depicts specified
sexual activities.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any employee, while semi-nude in an adult-
oriented business, to knowingly or intentionally receive any pay or gratuity
directly from any patron or customer or for any patron or customer to knowingly
or intentionally pay or give any gratuity directly to any employee, while the
employee is semi-nude in an adult-oriented business. Gratuities may be provided
by any patron or customer to designated employees who are not semi-nude or to
any designated containers used solely as a collection device to receive
gratuities.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for an employee, while semi-nude, to
intentionally touch, fondle, or caress a customer or the clothing of a
customer.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a patron or customer of an adult-oriented
business to knowingly and intentionally touch any semi-nude employee or the
stage of the adult-oriented business.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.40 PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN AN ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person allows a person under the age
of 18 years on the premises of an adult-oriented business.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.41 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult-oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on each day of the week.
(Ord. 25, passed 8-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: SIGNS AND OTHER ADVERTISEMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Authority and intent
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   General regulations
   
115.04   Outdoor lighting for advertising
   
115.05   Sign maintenance
   
115.06   Enforcement
   
115.07   Appeals and variations
   
115.08   Permits and fees
   
115.09   Prohibited signs
§ 115.01 AUTHORITY AND INTENT.
   (A)   Authority. The city’s authority to regulate signs, billboards, and
other advertising structures is specified in SDCL Ch. 31-29.
   (B)   Intent. The purpose of this chapter shall be to establish effective
local regulation of outdoor advertising so as to promote the health, safety,
and general welfare of those persons using and residing adjacent to public
rights-of-way. The following regulations are intended to promote and preserve
the natural aesthetics of the city while providing for the convenience of the
traveling public, for the promotion of locally available facilities, goods, and
services, and to minimize negative impacts on property adjacent to public
rights-of-way.
(Ord. #10, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN/BILLBOARD. A sign or sign structure that is blank,
obliterated, or displays obsolete advertising material for a period in excess
of 90 days. The 90-day period for determining if a sign is ABANDONED commences
upon notification of violation to the offender.
   BACK-TO-BACK SIGN. An off-premises or on-premises sign consisting of two
sign facings oriented in the opposite direction with not more than one face per
side.
   BANNER SIGN. An on-premises sign which can be changed periodically to
identify an establishment’s activities, products, or services conducted or
available on the property.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign erected for the convenience of the public, such as
directing traffic movement, parking, or identifying restrooms, public
telephones, walkways, and other similar features or facilities and bearing no
advertising in the message.
   DOUBLE FACED SIGN. An off-premises or on-premises sign with two adjacent
faces oriented in the same direction and not more than ten feet apart at the
nearest point between the two faces.
   FACING. The portion of a sign structure upon which advertising is affixed or
painted and visible in one direction at one time.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign on a frame, pole, or other support structure not
attached to any building.
   HIGHWAY. Every way or place of whatever nature open to the public, as a
matter of right, for purposes of vehicular travel, is a HIGHWAY. The term
HIGHWAY shall also include private access easements and roadways.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign/billboard that advertises goods or services not
available at the location of the billboard or advertising sign.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign identifying an establishment’s activities,
products, or services conducted or available on the property upon which it is
located and signs advertising the sale or lease of the property upon which they
are located.
   PLANNING OFFICIAL. The Board of Commissioners and its designee charged with
the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   SIGNS/BILLBOARDS. Any sign defined in this chapter which displays or conveys
any identification, description, illustration, or device, illuminated or non-
illuminated, which directs attention to a product, service, business activity,
institution, business, or solicitation, including any permanently installed or
situated merchandise, or any emblem, painting, banner, pennant, or placard
designed to advertise, identify, or convey information, with the exception of
window displays.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The sign face and support members that are permanently
affixed to the ground or attached to a structure. SIGN STRUCTURE does not
include the sign frame.
   TEMPORARY SIGNS. Signs and sign structures that are temporary in nature that
are placed or erected in such a manner to be easily removed from the property
and are not permanently affixed.
(Ord. #10, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 115.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In any zoning district where signs are allowed, a sign permit shall be
required unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   In addition to all applicable state and federal regulations, any sign
erected within the city shall be required to conform to the following
regulations.
      (1)   A sign permit shall be required for any new on-premise or off-
premise sign installation, including temporary signs. At the time of
installation, the new sign must conform to all requirements of the zoning
ordinance at the time of installation. All off-premises signs require a
conditional use permit. All off-premises sign permits must be renewed annually.
      (2)   The provisions of §§
155.270 through
155.280 or
155.335 through
155.341 apply to all conditional use permits. In addition, due consideration
shall be given to the relationship between the sign(s) and the natural horizon/
view shed in the area of the proposed sign location.
         (a)   The owner of any sign requiring a permit must apply for and
obtain a valid permit as per state law and this chapter before construction or
placement of the sign occurs.
         (b)   A sign erected or maintained without a permit is a public
nuisance and subject to abatement by the state’s Department of Transportation
or the city, as the case may be.
      (3)   No off-premises sign shall be erected or placed closer than 1,500
feet from any residential district and/or dwelling unit without an approved
conditional use permit.
      (4)   Off-premises signs shall be located no closer than 1,500 feet from
all other off-premises signs.
      (5)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 1,500 feet of any
dwelling unit or residential district without an approved conditional use
permit. All illuminated signs shall be installed and maintained so as to
minimize spillage of light outside of the sign face.
      (6)   Off-premises signs shall not exceed a height of 40 feet. The
maximum display area of any off-premises sign located adjacent to a two or more
lane highway shall not exceed 250 square feet on each face. The maximum display
area of any off-premises sign located on the interstate shall not exceed 400
square feet on each face. The height of the off-premises sign shall be measured
from the road surface.
      (7)   All off-premises and on-premises signs shall be placed or erected
in conformity with all applicable side and rear yard setback requirements for
structures. The minimum front yard setback requirement for on-premises or off-
premises signs shall be five feet from any property line.
      (8)   No sign, including political signs, are allowed to be located in
any public right-of-way or public or private access easement. All signs issued
by the city for public notice of proposed land use changes are exempt from this
requirement.
      (9)   There shall be a 250-foot separation between a new off-premises
sign and an existing freestanding on-premises sign. The separation restrictions
shall not apply to new freestanding on-premises sign and an existing off-
premises sign.
      (10)   All on-premises and off-premises sign structures shall be painted
and maintained in muted colors as to blend into the natural surroundings.
Colors shall include, but not be limited to, brown, black, or tan. Wood sign
structures may remain unpainted and be allowed to have a natural patina. At no
time shall bright or neon colors be used for either wood or metal sign
structures.
      (11)   No debris, including, but not necessarily limited to, wood
material, posts, metal, paper, plastic, cardboard, or other materials from the
construction or maintenance of a sign, shall be left at the location or
vicinity of a sign. Any violation of this section is hereby declared a nuisance
and subject to abatement.
      (12)   Freestanding on-premises signs shall not exceed a height of 30
feet. The maximum display area of any freestanding on-premises sign shall not
exceed 250 square feet on each side. The height of the freestanding on-premises
sign shall be measured from the road surface.
      (13)   Banner signs shall be approved by the Planning Official for size
and location and must substantially conform to the regulations of this chapter.
A banner sign permit may be renewed annually upon review of the Planning
Official. Banner signs may be changed without the need for a new permit
provided the dimensions of the banner sign do not change.
      (14)   Approved temporary signs related to an event are only allowed to
be erected 30 days prior to the event and must be removed within ten days of
the conclusion of the event. Temporary signs shall be approved by the Planning
Official for size and location and must substantially conform to the
regulations of this chapter. All non-event temporary sign permits are issued
for 30 days, renewable twice for a maximum of 90 days. The temporary sign must
be removed following the expiration of the temporary sign permit.
      (15)   On-premises signs which advertise or direct attention to a home
occupation shall not exceed six square feet in area and shall be limited to one
such sign per approved home occupation. A home occupation shall be allowed to
have one wall sign or one freestanding sign. The freestanding sign shall be
located at least five feet from the property line and have a maximum height of
five feet. A conditional use permit may allow for a larger size sign, if
appropriate to the area.
      (16)   Each subdivision that has been approved in accordance with the
regulations of
Chapter 155 shall be allowed one on-premises sign per entrance, not exceeding
75 square feet in area, advertising the name of such subdivision. The
subdivision sign shall be set back at least five feet from the property line.
The signs should be aesthetically pleasing and blend into the surroundings.
       (17)   In residential zoning districts, the following signs shall be
allowed without a permit but must comply with the criteria set forth below:
         (a)   Real estate sale, political campaign, and other noncommercial
speech signs that do not exceed nine square feet in total and, if freestanding,
five feet in height. No more than one such sign per street frontage. Political
campaign signs may be erected 60 days prior to the scheduled date of the
primary election and must be removed not later than seven days after the
candidate is unsuccessful, withdraw, or the general election, whichever comes
first;
         (b)   Businesses working at a residentially zoned lot, such as
landscapers or window treatment installers, may post an identifying sign only
when they are physically at the residence, and the sign shall be removed
immediately when the working party leaves the property. Such sign shall not
exceed nine square feet in total area and, if freestanding, shall not exceed
five feet in height. No more than one such sign per street frontage per lot is
allowed; and
         (c)   Under construction signs. For construction on or development of
lots, not more than three signs with a combined total area of 70 square feet,
stating the names of contractors, engineers, or architects, is allowed during
the time that construction or development is actively underway.
      (18)   In all other zoning districts, the following signs shall be
allowed without a permit but must comply with the criteria set forth below.
         (a)   Parking area signs. For each permitted or required parking area
that has a capacity of more than four cars, one sign, not exceeding four square
feet in area, may be allowed at each entrance to or exit from such parking
area. In addition, one sign, not exceeding nine square feet in area, is allowed
for identifying or designating the conditions of use of such parking area.
         (b)   For sale or for rent signs. Not more than one non-illuminated
for sale or for rent sign is allowed for the purpose of advertising the sale,
rental, or lease of the premises on which the sign is located. Such sign shall
not exceed nine square feet in size, shall be no more than five feet high, and
shall be at least five feet from the property line.
         (c)   Under construction signs. For construction on or development of
lots, not more than three signs with a combined total area of 70 square feet,
stating the names of contractors, engineers, or architects, is allowed during
the time that construction or development is actively underway.
         (d)   Emergency 911 signs. Residential locator or E-911 signs.
         (e)   Political campaign signs. Political campaign signs that are
temporarily placed on the ground pending an election shall not exceed nine
square feet in size, shall be no more than five feet high, and shall be at
least five feet from the property line. Political campaign signs may be erected
60 days prior to the scheduled date of the primary election and must be removed
not later than seven days after the candidate is unsuccessful, withdraw, or the
general election, whichever comes first.
         (f)   Directional signs. Directional signs shall not exceed 20 square
feet.
      (19)   Applications for a sign permit shall be made in writing upon forms
furnished by the city. No permit shall be issued until each sign application is
approved by the Planning Committee and the Board of Commissioners. At a
minimum, the following complete information shall be provided before an
application is considered:
         (a)   Name and address of the sign owner and the contractor;
         (b)   Name and address of the property owner where the sign is to be
located;
         (c)   The legal description of the proposed sign location;
         (d)   Clear and legible drawing of the proposed sign to scale with
description of the sign showing construction type and lighting;
         (e)   Site plan showing the location and setbacks on the property
where the sign is to be located;
         (f)   The property owner’s signature; and
         (g)   Other such data and information deemed necessary by the Planning
Committee.
      (20)   No off-premises or on-premises sign shall be constructed which
resembles any official marker erected by a governmental entity or which by
reason of position, shape, or color would conflict with the proper functioning
of any official traffic control device, sign, or marker.
      (21)   Owners of on-premises and off-premises signs are encouraged to
allow public service announcements to be located on signs that display no
advertisement for more than 30 calendar days.
      (22)   A vehicle or trailer of any form or type, whether licensed or not,
or in working condition or not, intended to be used as or in conjunction with
an on-premises or off-premises sign, shall not be located adjacent to any
public right-of-way or on private or public property so as to be visible from
the public right-of-way. Vehicles or trailers whose primary use is other than
outdoor advertising shall be exempt from this section.
(Ord. #10, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 115.04 OUTDOOR LIGHTING FOR ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All lighted outdoor advertising signs/billboards shall meet or exceed
the requirements.
   (B)   Signs may be illuminated subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Signs that contain, include, or are illuminated by any flashing,
intermittent (less than six seconds) moving light(s) are prohibited.
      (2)   Electronic variable message signs giving public information such
as, but not limited to, time, date, temperature, weather, or other similar
information, and commercial electric variable-message signs which function in
the same manner as multiple-face signs are permitted, provided such signs do
not interfere with traffic safety, do not change messages less than every six
seconds, and do not resemble or simulate traffic control or safety devices or
signs.
      (3)   Signs must be effectively shielded to prevent beams or rays from
being directed toward any portion of the traveled ways, and must not be of such
intensity or brilliance to cause glare or impair the vision of the driver of
any motor vehicle or otherwise interfere with any driver’s operation of a motor
vehicle.
      (4)   No sign shall be lighted after 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise
permitted through a conditional use permit.
   (C)   A nonconforming sign or sign structure existing at the time of the
adoption of the ordinance codified herein may be continued, maintained, and
repaired as follows. Any sign or sign structure not required to be removed or
until the time of actual removal may be used and may be repaired if the expense
of ordinary and customary maintenance does not exceed 50% of the depreciated
value of the sign or if the same has not been damaged beyond 50% of its
depreciated value by an act of God unless special circumstances warrant a
variance by the Board of Adjustment, such as, but not necessarily limited to,
acts of vandalism or an accident.
   (D)   No sign shall exceed two sides. Signs shall have no more than one
frontal face (front) and one back face (back) as viewed from one static
position.
   (E)   No sign shall be constructed, placed, or erected at or near any
intersection such that it would violate §
155.317 pertaining to the required 40-foot sight triangle at intersections. No
sign shall be allowed in an easement or in the 40-foot sight triangle of the
intersection of two easements.
   (F)   The changing of advertising messages or face on an existing sign shall
be allowed without fee or permit. The changing of advertising messages on an
existing sign shall be allowed without fee or permit.
(Ord. #10, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 115.05 SIGN MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Any sign existing on the date of adoption of the ordinance codified
herein which does not conform with the provisions of this code is eligible for
characterization as a legal nonconforming sign and is permitted to remain
except as follows:
      (1)   The sign has been removed, relocated, or destroyed;
      (2)   The sign has been brought into compliance with this chapter; or
      (3)   The sign is abandoned.
   (B)   Signs shall be maintained in a safe and legible condition at all
times, including the replacement of defective or damaged parts, painting,
repainting, cleaning, and other services required for maintenance of said
signs. Signs requiring basic maintenance as deemed by the planning official
shall be brought into compliance within 30 days upon written notice.
   (C)   Signs deemed to be unsafe by the Planning Official shall be removed or
brought into compliance within 24 hours upon written notice. Prior to the
Planning Official deeming a sign unsafe, he or she shall obtain a professional
opinion from an engineer licensed in the state stating that, in the best
interest of public safety, said sign ought to be removed or otherwise brought
into compliance.
(Ord. #10, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 115.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation. In addition to any and all remedies allowed under the laws
of the state and this chapter, a violation of any requirement of this chapter
shall also be subject to the penalties as outlined in §
155.999.
   (B)   Unlawful signs.
      (1)   Whenever it shall be determined by the Planning Official that any
sign or sign structure has been constructed or erected or is being maintained
in violation of the terms of
Chapter 155 or has been abandoned, said sign or sign structure is hereby
declared to be unlawful.
      (2)   Any sign or sign structure found to be unlawful shall be made to
conform to all applicable laws and regulations or shall be removed at the
expense of the sign owner or landowner (if the sign owner is unknown and
reasonable efforts have been made to locate the sign owner with no success).
   (C)   Removal of signs.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners may cause to be removed any unlawful
sign or sign structure. The city shall prepare a written notice which shall
describe the sign and specify the violation involved and shall state that if
the sign is not removed or the violation or condition is not corrected within
30 calendar days from the date of the notice, the sign shall be removed in
accordance with the provision of this chapter at the expense to the sign owner
or landowner (if the sign owner is unknown and reasonable efforts have been
made to locate the sign owner with no success).
      (2)   Service of the notice shall be made upon the sign owner and
landowner by mailing a copy of such notice by certified mail, postage prepaid,
return receipt requested. If service is made upon the landowner, service shall
be to the landowner at his or her address as it appears on the last equalized
assessment role of the county.
      (3)   Any person receiving notice may challenge the determination of the
Planning Official by filing a written notice to the city within 14 days. Upon
the decision of the Board of Commissioners, the person(s) receiving the initial
notice will have 14 days to file a written notice of appeal to the Board of
Adjustments. Failure by any person to appeal the notice within that time period
shall constitute a waiver of right to an administrative hearing.
      (4)   The sign owner or landowner, if the sign owner is unknown, shall
have 90 days to remove advertisements for establishments that are no longer in
business.
(Ord. #10, passed 5-17-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.07 APPEALS AND VARIATIONS.
   (A)   Appeals. Appeals shall be processed per §
155.399.
   (B)   Variations. Any conflict between this chapter and
Chapter 155, the more restrictive rule shall apply per the discretion of the
Planning Official.
(Ord. #10, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 115.08 PERMITS AND FEES.
   Permit and fees are referred to in the fee schedule adopted by resolution.
The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to
time by resolution.
(Ord. #10, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 115.09 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited within the limits of the city, and any
person who erects a prohibited sign may be found guilty of a Class II
misdemeanor and be subject to a fine of $200 and/or incarceration in the
county’s jail for a maximum of 30 days:
   (A)   Signs attached or applied to trees, utility poles, vending machines,
boxes, benches, and other unapproved supporting structures;
   (B)   Signs encroaching on a public right-of-way or extending beyond a
property line except as allowed by this chapter;
   (C)   Illuminated signs containing flashing, intermitting, or moving light
that interferes with the public’s enjoyment of property or the traveled way of
streets or obscures traffic signs or devices;
   (D)   Signs that constitute pedestrian or vehicular traffic hazards or which
could be confused with any governmental regulatory, directional, or warning
sign;
   (E)   Signs attached to any public property, including but not limited to
power poles, street light poles, traffic signs, fire hydrants, or any public
building;
   (F)   Signs that interfere with traffic signs or signals;
   (G)   Signs that have vulgar pictures or wording; and
   (H)   Signs that case a visibility problem or interfere with traffic in any
way.
(Ord. 5.01C, passed 6-5-2008)
CHAPTER 116: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Activity facilities
   
116.03   Official supervision
Licensing
   
116.15   License required
   
116.16   Application
   
116.17   Supplemental items; license fee
   
116.18   Application procedure
   
116.19   Waiver of requirements
Regulations
   
116.30   Traffic and parking
   
116.31   Cleanup; damage
   
116.32   Disorderly conduct; disturbances
   
116.33   Alcoholic beverage regulations
   
116.34   Days and hours of operation
Violations and Enforcement
   
116.45   Violation of application and license
   
116.46   Additional law enforcement
 
   
116.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OUTDOOR.
      (1)   Not totally enclosed within a building or other structure; and
“enclosed” shall mean totally surrounded by walls, roof, or other enclosure so
as to prevent the escape of the noise or sound of whatever is going on within.
      (2)   Open windows, doors, or the like that allow the noise or sound to
escape and potentially disturb the peace of anyone else shall cause the
activity within to constitute an OUTDOOR ACTIVITY.
   OUTDOOR DANCE, CONCERT, or SIMILAR ENTERTAINMENT.
      (1)   Any such event or happening whether on private or public property,
whether the same is a private or exclusive event or open to the public, and
whether the same is free of charge or subject to charge, admission, cover fee,
or similar cost or reimbursement, whether direct or indirect, whatsoever.
      (2)   OUTDOOR DANCE, CONCERT, or SIMILAR ENTERTAINMENT shall be liberally
construed, and the governing body shall be the final interpreter as to whether
any event of happening shall fit within the definition of OUTDOOR DANCE,
CONCERT, or SIMILAR ENTERTAINMENT.
(Prior Code, § 114.01)
§ 116.02 ACTIVITY FACILITIES.
   The applicant shall provide appropriate and safe facilities for the activity
or event, including such lighting, restroom facilities, trash receptacles, and
exits as may be warranted by the estimated crowd size or as otherwise required
by the appropriate municipal authorities.
(Prior Code, § 114.08)
§ 116.03 OFFICIAL SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The Public Safety Committee of the governing body (and, if applicable,
the Municipal Park and Recreation Board) and the law enforcement agency or unit
of the governing body shall have supervision of all outdoor dances, concerts,
or similar entertainment.
   (B)   As such, they, along with the governing body, shall have authority to
make revisions and changes in the application and in the manner of carrying out
the applied-for activity.
(Prior Code, § 114.09)
Cross-reference:
   Recreation facilities, see
Ch. 95
LICENSING
§ 116.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, corporation, organization, or other entity shall manage, hold,
conduct, or otherwise maintain any outdoor dance, concert, or similar
entertainment within the municipal limits of the municipality or within one
mile of the municipal limits of the municipality without first obtaining a
license therefor, as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.16 APPLICATION.
   Any applicant for the license described in §
116.02 shall file an application with the governing body (or, if the event is
to be on public property under the jurisdiction of a Municipal Park and
Recreation Board, the application shall be filed with the Board) at least 30
days prior to the proposed event, and the application shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   Applicant’s name and street and mailing address;
   (B)   If applicant is a corporation, names and street and mailing addresses
of all officers and directors;
   (C)   If applicant is a partnership, names and street and mailing addresses
of all partners;
   (D)   If applicant is a noncorporate organization or other joint venture,
names and street and mailing addresses of all officers, if any, all directors,
if any, and, if there are no officers nor directors, names and street and
mailing addresses of at least three primary or responsible persons of the
organization or venture, all of whom must sign the application;
   (E)   Location or place of the event, including street address, if any, and
the parameters or boundaries, with specificity, including exits;
   (F)   Date(s) of the event;
   (G)   Proposed time(s) and hours of operation;
   (H)   Type of entertainment (dance, concert, or other) with specificity,
including name of band or other entertainment;
   (I)   Approximate or projected number of people who may attend the event(s);
   (J)   Whether alcoholic beverages will be sold, served, consumed, or
otherwise provided;
   (K)   If alcoholic beverages are to be present, whether underage persons
will be allowed to attend;
   (L)   If alcoholic beverages are present and underage persons are allowed,
applicant’s specific plan to provide proper barriers or separation as required
by statutory law;
   (M)   The number of security persons and their type, kind, or level of
training, experience, or expertise;
   (N)   The number, kind, and location(s) of restroom facilities and trash
receptacles;
   (O)   The plan for parking and traffic flow, (including parking locations)
and regulation, with specificity;
   (P)   The plan for cleanup following the event, including the number of
persons involved, the means and method of disposal of trash and refuse, the
location of dumping, and the proposed deadline that cleanup will be completed;
and
   (Q)   Any other information that may be required by the governing board.
(Prior Code, § 114.03)
§ 116.17 SUPPLEMENTAL ITEMS; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)    The license applicant, in addition to the application, shall submit
at the same time a certificate or other proof of liability insurance in the
amount(s) and coverage(s) that the governing board (or Municipal Park and
Recreation Board) may require; and shall also submit at the same time a
security, damage, cleanup, and reimbursement deposit in the form of a bond in
favor of the municipality, or a cashier’s check or money order made payable to
the municipality, or cash, in the amount required by the governing board (or
Municipal Recreation Board).
   (B)   The applicant may also be required to submit additional documents or
items in support of or in verification of the application.
   (C)   Finally, the applicant shall, pay an application fee. Refer to fee
schedule adopted by resolution. The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees
as set forth herein from time to time by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 2022-16, passed 1-5-2023)
§ 116.18 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Following submission of the application and all other required items
and documents and application/license fee, the applicant shall meet with the
Public Safety Committee (or jointly with such Committee and the appropriate
committee of the Municipal Recreation Board), to answer any questions, provide
any additional or supplemental information, to receive suggestions or to
otherwise work out any details to the satisfaction of the applicant and
applicable committee.
   (B)   Following one or more committee meetings, the application shall then
be considered by the governing board (or Municipal Park and Recreation Board)
who shall hear the recommendation of the Committee and may hear from the
applicant.
   (C)   Following governing body meetings, the governing body may approve the
application, approve the application with amendments, or reject the
application.
   (D)   Approval, if any, of the application as is, or as amended, shall
constitute the license sought.
(Prior Code, § 114.05)
§ 116.19 WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS.
   The governing body (or Municipal Park and Recreation Board) shall have the
right to waive any requirement otherwise contained in the application,
including the insurance, deposit, or license fee, or an appropriate amount or
percentage thereof, if, in its judgment, the minimal size of the event or the
type of the event or the charitable or civic nature of the event or
organization holding or promoting the same warrant any such waiver.
(Prior Code, § 114.06)
REGULATIONS
§ 116.30 TRAFFIC AND PARKING.
   (A)   The applicant shall ensure that all public rights-of-way, streets,
alleys, sidewalks, and other regularly traveled grounds, including private
driveways and driveway approaches, are kept open and not blocked, even
temporarily, unless prior specific permission has been granted by the
appropriate municipal authorities.
   (B)   In addition, the applicant shall ensure that no event parking is
allowed on and along any such public right-of-way nor in any public park or
otherwise on any public property without prior specific permission from
municipal authorities.
   (C)   The applicant shall, if required by the municipality, post appropriate
signs to prohibit the blocking of traffic and/or to prohibit unauthorized or
unlawful parking, and any other appropriate signs required by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 114.11)
§ 116.31 CLEANUP; DAMAGE.
   The applicant shall be responsible for all cleanup and trash removal on the
event site and in the surrounding area. In addition, applicant shall be
responsible for damage to any municipal property, including but not limited to
tables, chairs, benches, trees, shrubbery, flowers, and the like on the event
site and in the surrounding area.
(Prior Code, § 114.12)
§ 116.32 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; DISTURBANCES.
   The applicant and applicant’s representatives shall cooperate fully with the
security people and law enforcement officers in matters of crowd control, and
especially in the event of potential disturbances or disorderly conduct or
similar activity.
(Prior Code, § 114.13)
§ 116.33 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE REGULATIONS.
   The applicant shall obey all alcoholic beverage laws and if alcoholic
beverages are served, sold, or otherwise provided or present, and if underage
persons are invited or present, applicant shall specifically follow and obey
all laws with regard to the separation of underage persons from those of age.
(Prior Code, § 114.14)
§ 116.34 DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicant shall operate the event(s) only on the day(s) and during
the hours approved by the appropriate municipal authorities.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specifically approved by the municipality, no outdoor
dances, concerts, or similar entertainment events at which alcoholic beverages
will be sold, served, consumed, provided, or otherwise present shall not be
held on the following days nor during or after the following hours:
      (1)   Christmas Day;
      (2)   If on Christmas Eve, not after 12:00 a.m.;
      (3)   Memorial Day, except if the event is held the day or evening before
Memorial Day, the event shall not run beyond 1:00 a.m. of Memorial Day;
      (4)   Sundays, except if the event is held on a Saturday or Saturday
evening, the event shall not run beyond 1:00 a.m. of the Sunday following the
Saturday event;
      (5)   If on a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday, the event shall
not run beyond 1:00 a.m. of the following morning;
      (6)   If on a Friday, the event shall not run beyond 1:00 a.m. of the
following morning;
      (7)   If on a Saturday, the event shall not run beyond 1:00 a.m. of the
following morning; and
      (8)   Outdoor dances, concerts, or similar entertainments are generally
discouraged on all nights except Friday and Saturday, if the event shall run
past 11:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 114.15)
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 116.45 VIOLATION OF APPLICATION AND LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any applicant or any person acting on behalf of any
applicant to violate any provision of his, her, or its application or
requirement of the license issued pursuant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 114.07) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.46 ADDITIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   The Public Safety Committee and the municipality’s law enforcement agency
may deem it necessary to provide or contract for additional law enforcement for
the municipality or for the area around the event site, at or about the time(s)
of the event. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to pay for such
additional enforcement, without question; and the amount therefor may be
projected and included in the deposit amount to be submitted with the
application, or the municipality may require an additional deposit to be made
to cover such additional law enforcement cost prior to the date(s) of the
proposed event.
(Prior Code, § 114.10)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any applicant or any person acting on behalf of any
applicant, or for any other person, to violate any provision of this chapter.
If any applicant or any person acting on his or her behalf or any other person
does violation the provisions of this chapter, he or she may be fined an amount
not to exceed $500 and imprisoned no longer than 30 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 114.99)
CHAPTER 117: AUCTIONS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Requirements
   
117.03   Exempt sales
   
117.04   Auction receipts
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUCTION SALE. The offering for sale or selling of personal property to the
highest bidder or offering for sale or selling of personal property at a high
price and then offering the personal property at successive lower prices until
a buyer is secured.
   NEW MERCHANDISE. Any merchandise not previously sold at retail.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 37-14-2
§ 117.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements of this chapter are in addition to and not in lieu of any
other state or local license.
(Prior Code, § 111.02)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 37-14-5
§ 117.03 EXEMPT SALES.
   The provisions of this chapter do not extend to the sale at public auction
of livestock, farm machinery, or farm produce or any other item commonly sold
at farm sale, to any auction sale held under authority of or under the
supervision and direction of any court of this state, or to any person, firm,
or corporation who has been engaged in business in this state for a period of
at least one year, conducting a closing out or stock reduction sale of the
business.
(Prior Code, § 111.03)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 37-14-4
§ 117.04 AUCTION RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Any money that an auction cashier receives on behalf of a client from
an auction sale shall be deposited in a separate account maintained for auction
sale proceeds only.
   (B)   Any money that an auction cashier receives on behalf of a client from
an auction sale shall be given to the client within 20 working days of the
auction sale. This section does not apply to any bad check or if there is a
prior written agreement between the client and the cashier.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) above do not apply to any livestock auction
agency licensed pursuant to SDCL Ch. 40-15 or to any real estate sale.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 37-14-18, § 37-14-19, and § 37-14-20
CHAPTER 118: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
118.01   Excessive interest
   
118.02   Sale of pledge during time for redemption
   
118.03   Conduct of business without license
   
118.04   Refusal to disclose purchaser and price of article sold
   
118.05   Refusal to exhibit stolen goods
§ 118.01 EXCESSIVE INTEREST.
   No pawnbroker who receives goods in pledge for loans shall charge any rate
of interest above that allowed by law.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 37-16-1
§ 118.02 SALE OF PLEDGE DURING TIME FOR REDEMPTION.
   No pawnbroker shall sell any article received by him or her in pledge before
the time to redeem the same has expired.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 37-16-2
§ 118.03 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS WITHOUT LICENSE.
   All pawnbrokers in this municipality shall apply for and receive a license
to carry on the business of a pawnbroker pursuant to SDCL § 9-34-8.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 37-16-3
§ 118.04 REFUSAL TO DISCLOSE PURCHASER AND PRICE OF ARTICLE SOLD.
   Any pawnbroker shall not refuse to disclose the purchaser and price received
by him or her for any article received by him or her in pledge and subsequently
sold.
(Prior Code, § 112.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 37-16-4
§ 118.05 REFUSAL TO EXHIBIT STOLEN GOODS.
   Any pawnbroker and junk dealer who, having received any goods which have
been stolen, shall not refuse to exhibit them upon demand during usual business
hours to the owner of such goods or his or her agents authorized to demand an
inspection.
(Prior Code, § 112.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 37-16-5
CHAPTER 119: REGULATION AND LICENSING OF MEDICAL CANNABIS
Section
   
119.01   General provisions
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   Application and license approval
   
119.04   Operating requirements and restrictions
   
119.05   Number and costs of licenses
   
119.06   Enforcement and penalties
§ 119.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter is enacted under the authority of SDCL 34-20G-
58.
   (B)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the general
welfare of the citizens of City of Summerset in enacting the provisions of SDCL
§ 34-20G and to carry into effect the powers granted to the Commissioners by
virtue thereof and provide for the enforcement of the provisions set forth
herein.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. These provisions shall, to the extent not in
contradiction of any state law or regulation, govern the operations of medical
cannabis establishments in the City of Summerset, South Dakota, outside the
incorporated areas of any municipality.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 9-2-2021)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Application and interpretation.
      (1)   The definitions listed hereafter shall apply to this chapter. The
definitions are to be understood in their ordinary sense.
      (2)   The definitions correspond to the definitions of SDCL § 34-20G-1.
Any interpretation of terms under that statute shall apply to the same term in
this chapter.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ALLOWABLE AMOUNT OF CANNABIS.
         (a)   Three ounces of cannabis or less;
         (b)   A quantity of cannabis products with an equivalent cannabis
weight as established by rules promulgated by the department under SDCL § 34-
20G-72;
         (c)   If the cardholder has a registry identification card allowing
cultivation, three cannabis plants minimum or as prescribed by physician; and
         (d)   If the cardholder has a registry identification card allowing
cultivation, the amount of cannabis and cannabis products that were produced
from the cardholder's allowable plants, if the cannabis and cannabis products
are possessed at the same property where the plants were cultivated.
      CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. An entity registered with the
department pursuant to this chapter that acquires, possesses, manufactures,
delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells cannabis products to a
medical cannabis dispensary.
      CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
      CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY OR TESTING FACILITY. An independent entity
registered with the department pursuant to this chapter to analyze the safety
and potency of cannabis.
      CARDHOLDER. A qualifying patient or a designated caregiver who has been
issued and possesses a valid registry identification card.
      CHILD WELFARE AGENCY. Any agency or institution maintained by a
municipality or county, or any agency or institution maintained by a person,
firm, limited liability company, corporation, association, or organization to
receive children for care and maintenance or for placement in a family home, or
that provides care for mothers and their children, excepting family day care
facilities as defined in SDCL § 26-6-14.1.
      COMMISSIONERS. The City of Summerset Board of Commissioners.
      CULTIVATION FACILITY. An entity registered with the Department pursuant
to this chapter that acquires, possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers,
transports, supplies, or sells cannabis and related supplies to a medical
cannabis establishment.
      DEPARTMENT. The Department of Health.
      DISQUALIFYING FELONY OFFENSE. A violent crime that was classified as a
felony in the jurisdiction where the person was convicted; Statute defines a
violent crime.
      EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any product that:
         (a)   Contains or is infused with cannabis or an extract thereof;
         (b)   Is intended for human consumption by oral ingestion; and
         (c)   Is presented in the form of foodstuffs, beverages, extracts,
oils, tinctures, or other similar products.
      MEDICAL CANNABIS or CANNABIS. Marijuana as defined in SDCL § 22-42-1.
      MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSARY OR DISPENSARY. An entity registered with the
Department pursuant to this chapter that acquires, possesses, stores, delivers,
transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses cannabis, cannabis
products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational materials to
cardholders.
      MEDICAL CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation facility, a cannabis
testing facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a dispensary.
      MEDICAL CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT AGENT. An owner, officer, board member,
employee, or volunteer at a medical cannabis establishment.
      PLACE OF WORSHIP. A structure where persons regularly assemble for
worship, ceremonies, rituals, and education relating to a particular form of
religious belief and which a reasonable person would conclude is a place of
worship by reason of design, signs, or architectural or other features.
      PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD. The City Planning Commission created by
Summerset City Code §
31.050.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 9-2-2021)
§ 119.03 APPLICATION AND LICENSE APPROVAL.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, business, or other
organization to engage in the business of operating a medical cannabis
establishment within the municipal boundaries of the city without having a
local license issued by the city.
      (2)   It shall be necessary for any person, business, or other
organization to obtain a local license under this chapter prior to submitting
an application to the South Dakota Department of Health for a state
registration certificate. (SDCL § 34-20G-55)
      (3)   The application shall be on forms provided by the city. All
information requested on the form shall be provided before the completed
application is submitted.
      (4)   The application shall require verification, under punishment of
perjury, that:
         (a)   None of the principal officers or board members has served as a
principal officer or board member for a medical cannabis establishment that has
had its registration certificate revoked, whether in this state or elsewhere;
         (b)   That none of the principal officers or board members are under
21 years of age;
         (c)   That at least one principal officer is a resident of the city;
         (d)   That the applicant is the owner or actual lessee of the premises
where the business is conducted and the sole owner of the business operated
under the license.
      (5)   If the applicant is other than an individual, the verification
shall be by a principal officer of the entity applying for the license.
      (6)   The non-refundable application fee as set forth herein shall be
paid at the time the application is submitted.
      (7)   The license fee as set forth herein shall be paid at the time the
application is submitted. Should the application be denied, the license fee
shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   License approval process.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a completed application, application fee and
license fee, the City Administrator shall present the application to the
Planning and Zoning Board at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board
which shall set the time and place for hearing on all applications. The hearing
shall be conducted within 30 days of presentation of the application.
      (2)   The city shall publish notice once in the official newspapers of
the county, at least one week before the scheduled hearing. The notice shall be
headed “Notice of Hearing Upon Applications for Medical Cannabis
Establishment,” shall state the time and place when and where such applications
will be considered by the Planning and Zoning Board, and shall state that any
person interested in the approval or rejection of any such application may
appear and be heard.
      (3)   At the time and place so set, the Planning and Zoning Board shall
consider each application and any objection to the application before making
its final decision on the application. The Planning and Zoning Board may
recommend approval or disapproval of the application depending on whether the
application complies with the Zoning Ordinance of the city and the Board deems
the applicant a suitable person to hold the license and whether the proposed
location is suitable.
      (4)   A person or entity may obtain more than a single class of license
and/or more than a single license within any class of license, unless otherwise
prohibited by law. The fact that multiple licenses are held may be considered
in the application process as a factor in determining whether the applicant is
a suitable person to hold the license.
      (5)   If the Planning and Zoning Board does not recommend approval of the
application, the Board shall endorse on the application the reasons for the
denial and return the application and the recommendation shall be forwarded to
the City Board of Commissioners who shall schedule the matter to be heard at a
special or regular meeting of the Commission.
      (6)   If the Planning and Zoning Board recommends approval of the
application, the recommendation shall be forwarded to the Commissioners who
shall hear the matter a special or regular meeting, and if approved by the
Commission then the city shall endorse the approval on the application and
shall issue a city license to the medical cannabis establishment.
      (7)   Any license issued shall be effective and valid through December 31
of the year issued. However, any license approved in 2021 shall be effective
and valid through December 31, 2022.
   (C)   Renewal.
      (1)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter may be renewed on an
annual basis. An applicant for renewal is not automatically entitled to
renewal. The issuance of a local license does not create a property right in
that license.
      (2)   An application for renewal shall be on the same forms and with the
same requirements as the initial application set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
above.
      (3)   The applicant need not pay an application fee, but must pay the
renewal fee as set forth herein. Such renewal fee shall be paid at the time the
renewal application is filed with the city.
      (4)   A completed application for renewal shall be presented to the City
Administrator no later than November 1.
      (5)   No application for renewal of a dispensary shall be approved if the
licensed premise was not open to the public during regular business hours for
the sale of medical marijuana for at least 120 days in the previous year.
      (6)   The approval process for a renewal shall be the same as for an
initial application. However, the license of a medical cannabis establishment
applying for renewal may be approved for renewal by the Commissioners without a
hearing unless in the past year the licensee, one of its principal officers or
board members, or an employee of the dispensary have been subjected to a
criminal penalty for violation of the medical cannabis laws or this chapter, or
the license has been suspended.
   (D)   Suspension or revocation.
      (1)   A local license issued hereunder may be suspended or revoked by the
Commissioners for violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Notification of the intent of the Commissioners to consider
suspension or revocation of a local license shall be made at the address given
on the license. Such notification shall be at least 30 days in advance of the
date set for public hearing on the suspension or revocation action.
      (3)   Notice of public hearing shall be published in the official
newspapers of the city at least one week prior to such hearing and in such form
as deemed appropriate by the Commissioners.
      (4)   At the public hearing, the Commissioners shall hear evidence or
testimony from the licensee and any interested person. The Commissioners may
revoke the license if they determine, following the public hearing, that a
violation of this chapter occurred.
      (5)   If the Commissioners are satisfied that the nature and the
circumstances of the violation were such that a suspension of the license would
be adequate, the Commissioners may, instead of revoking the license, suspend it
for a period not exceeding 60 days.
      (6)   If the Commissioners suspend or revoke a local license, they shall
notify the Secretary of the Department of Health of that fact.
   (E)   Transfer of license. The procedure for a transfer of a license is the
same as the application for a new license. The fee for a transfer is $100,000.
An affidavit of bulk sale and the existing license card must be submitted with
the application for transfer. The application to transfer the license shall
only be permitted if all municipal and state sales and use taxes incurred by
the licensee as a result of the operation have been paid, and all property
taxes, which are the liability of the licensee are paid or are not delinquent.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 9-2-2021)
§ 119.04 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Authority. The South Dakota legislature has expressly granted
authority to the city, through its Commissioners to govern the time, place, and
manner of operation of medical cannabis establishments. (SDCL § 34-20G-58). The
Commissioners may not prohibit a dispensary, either expressly or through the
enactment or application of an ordinance that makes the operation of a
dispensary impractical. In the development and execution of these regulations,
it is recognized that there are some uses which because of their very nature,
are recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances
thereby having a potential deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas. Special
regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these adverse effects will
not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood.
The primary control or regulation is for the purpose of preventing a
concentration of these uses in any one area.
   (B)   General prohibition. No medical cannabis establishment may operate in
the city without possessing both a current license from city and a current
registration certificate issued by the South Dakota Department of Health.
   (C)   Time restrictions.
      (1)   No medical cannabis establishment may operate on any Sunday or any
federal or state holiday. However, a cultivation facility or cannabis product
manufacturing facility may operate as may be required to prevent the
destruction or degradation ofmarijuana plants under their control.
      (2)   A medical cannabis dispensary may not operate between the hours of
7:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
   (D)   Location restrictions.
      (1)   Medical cannabis establishments are only allowed in those areas of
the city that have been zoned as a C-l General Commercial District and medical
cannabis establishments shall be considered a permitted use as listed in §
115.116 of the Summerset City Code.
      (2)   No medical cannabis establishment may share office space with a
medical, psychiatric, counseling, chiropractic, or physical therapy practice.
      (3)   No medical cannabis establishment may be established, operated, or
maintained within 1,000 feet of a public or private school or designated bus
stop
      (4)   No medical cannabis dispensary may be established, operated, or
maintained within 400 feet of a child welfare agency, a place of worship, an
in-patient alcohol or drug treatment facility or a public playground.
      (5)   No medical cannabis dispensary may be established, operated, or
maintained within 400 feet of the zoning boundaries of a district zoned as
residential (RI, R2, R3) or General Industrial (Gl), or Agricultural (AG).
      (6)   No medical cannabis dispensary may be established, operated, or
maintained within 400 feet of another medical cannabis dispensary, a bar,
liquor store, or casino.
      (7)   No medical cannabis facility shall be located on-premises for which
a license to sell alcoholic liquor, beer or wine has been issued.
   (E)   Manner restrictions.
      (1)   No person under 21 years of age shall be allowed on the licensed
premises of a medical cannabis establishment.
      (2)   At all times during the hours of operation of a medical cannabis
establishment, there shall be present a manager or other employee of the
licensee who shall be not less than 21 years of age.
      (3)   No cannabis or related paraphernalia shall be displayed or kept in
a business so as to be visible from outside the cannabis establishment.
      (4)   No licensee of a medical cannabis dispensary may dispense any
medical marijuana to any person who is obviously under the influence of
cannabis to such a degree as to cause impairment.
      (5)   Before cannabis may be dispensed by a medical cannabis dispensary,
a medical cannabis establishment agent:
         (a)   Shall make a diligent effort to verify that the registry
identification is valid; and
         (b)   Shall make a diligent effort to verify that the person
presenting the documentation is the person identified on the document presented
to the dispensary agent.
      (6)   All retail sales of cannabis shall be in person, directly to the
purchaser, and within the retail area of a cannabis dispensary. No drive-up
windows or similar delivery process shall be allowed.
      (7)   A medical cannabis establishment agent shall not dispense an amount
of cannabis to a person that would cause the person to possess more than the
allowable amount of cannabis.
      (8)   A medical cannabis establishment may not employ any person who has
been convicted of a disqualifying felony offense.
      (9)   No alcohol or cannabis may be consumed on the premises of a medical
cannabis dispensary.
   (F)   Signage and advertising.
      (1)   All exterior signage associated with a medical cannabis
establishment shall comply with Summerset City Code §§ 115.270 through 115.280.
      (2)   In addition, no exterior signage may use the word “marijuana,”
“cannabis,” or any other word, phrase or symbol commonly understood to refer to
cannabis. Such words, phrases or symbols may be used ifspecifically approved by
the Commissioners.
      (3)   No cannabis establishment may distribute or allow the distribution
of any cannabis or cannabis product without charge within a cannabis
establishment or elsewhere for purposes of promotion, advertising, or any other
purpose.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 9-2-2021)
§ 119.05 NUMBER AND COSTS OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Authority. The South Dakota legislature has expressly granted
authority to the city to determine the number of medical cannabis establishment
licenses to issue. (SDCL § 34-20G-58). The city may charge a reasonable fee for
the local license. (SDCL § 34-20G-60)
   (B)   Number of licenses.
      (1)   There shall be available as local licenses for medical cannabis
establishments a total of one license.
      (2)   The total local licenses established shall be allocated as follows,
with a maximum number of local licenses limited within type of medical cannabis
establishment as follows:
 
Cultivation facility                    0 license(s)
Cannabis testing facility               0 license(s)
Cannabis product manufacturing facility 0 license(s)
Dispensary                              1 license(s)
 
      (3)   The city shall consider all qualified applications in the order
they were received, subject to any resolution establishing a different
procedure. The City Commission is authorized to adopt a resolution setting
forth the manner in which licenses are to be awarded in the event there are
more qualified applicants than available licenses. No local licenses may be
issued after the available new local licenses have been awarded by the city.
      (4)   Should any additional local licenses become available through
revocation or otherwise, such license shall be made available to the first
qualified applicant, subject to any resolution establishing a different
procedure.
      (5)   In the event the number of available licenses is reduced by future
amendment of this chapter, no then existing licensee shall be prevented from
continuing operation during the license term, from applying for renewal ofsuch
license for subsequent consecutive years, or from transferring such license,
solely on the basis ofsuch reduction. However, this exception shall not prevent
a license from being suspended or revoked, nor shall it prevent a denial of an
application for renewal or transfer, based upon grounds other than a change in
the number of available licenses.
   (C)   License fees.
      (1)   There shall be a non-refundable application fee in the amount of $
20,000.
      (2)   There shall be a fee for newly issued licenses under this chapter
for each type of medical cannabis establishment as follows:
 
Cultivation facility                    -
Cannabis testing facility               -
Cannabis product manufacturing facility -
Dispensary                              $100,000
 
   (C)   There shall be a renewal fee for any license issued under this chapter
in the amount of $100,000. The City Commission is authorized to adjust these
license fees by resolution.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 9-2-2021)
§ 119.06 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Inspection. The city and law enforcement may inspect a medical
cannabis facility during business hours to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   License consequence. Violation of the terms of this chapter may result
in revocation or suspension of the local license as set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Civil penalty.
      (1)   Violation of the terms of this chapter may be enforced through a
civil action in magistrate court or circuit court, at the discretion of the
Commissioners.
      (2)   Civil penalties may not exceed $500 for each violation.
      (3)   Each day the licensee is in violation of the chapter may be
considered a separate violation.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 9-2-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   State crimes adopted
   
130.02   Threatening, intimidating phone calls
Offenses against the Administration of Government
   
130.15   Refusal to aid police
   
130.16   Assault against an officer
   
130.17   Obstructing an officer
   
130.18   Interference with officers
   
130.19   Failure to stop; escape
   
130.20   False reporting to authorities
   
130.21   Impersonation of police officer
Safety Provisions
   
130.35   Cruelty to animals
   
130.36   Poisoning
   
130.37   Abandoning of an animal
   
130.38   Trapping of an animal
   
130.39   Hunting prohibited
   
130.40   Railroad trains not to block street
   
130.41   Smoking in public or place of employment prohibited
   
130.42   Malicious mischief
   
130.43   Wells and cisterns covered
   
130.44   Electronic cigarettes
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 STATE CRIMES ADOPTED.
   The provisions of SDCL Title 22 are herein adopted by reference and shall be
enforced by the police officers of this municipality. It shall be unlawful to
violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
Police, see
Ch. 33
§ 130.02 THREATENING, INTIMIDATING PHONE CALLS.
   It is unlawful for a person to use a telephone for any of the following
purposes:
   (A)   To call another person with intent to terrorize, intimidate, threaten,
harass, or annoy such person by using obscene or lewd language or by suggesting
a lewd or lascivious act;
   (B)   To call another person with intent to threaten to inflict physical
harm or injury to any person or property;
   (C)   To call another person with intent to extort money or other things of
value; or
   (D)   To call another person with intent to disturb him or her by repeated
anonymous telephone calls or intentionally failing to replace the receiver or
disengage the telephone connection.
(Prior Code, § 135.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST THE ADMINISTRATION OF GOVERNMENT
§ 130.15 REFUSAL TO AID POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful to fail to promptly aid the police in the discharge of
their duties when called upon by any police officer to do the same.
(Prior Code, § 130.15) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 ASSAULT AGAINST AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful to attempt assault or strike any officer of the
municipality while such officer is in the discharge of his or her duty or to
attempt to or knowingly cause bodily injury to a law enforcement officer or
public officer engaged in the performance of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 130.16) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
Provisions on assault, see SDCL §§ 22-18-1 et seq.
§ 130.17 OBSTRUCTING AN OFFICER.
   Except as provided in SDCL §§ 22-11-4 and 22-11-5, any person who, by
threatening to use violence, force, or physical interference or obstacle,
intentionally obstructs, impairs, or hinders the enforcement of the criminal
laws or the preservation of the peace by a law enforcement officer or jailer
acting under color of his or her official authority, or intentionally
obstructs, impairs, or hinders the prevention, control, or abatement of fire by
a firefighter acting under color of his or her official authority, is guilty of
obstructing a law enforcement officer or jailer or firefighter.
(Prior Code, § 130.17) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with any law enforcement
officers who are performing any official duty.
(Prior Code, § 130.18) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 FAILURE TO STOP; ESCAPE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse
to stop or flee when being signaled visually or audibly to do so.
      (2)   The signal given by the police officer may be by hand, voice,
emergency light, or siren.
      (3)   The officer giving the signal to stop shall be in uniform and shall
prominently display his or her badge of office.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to escape from lawful confinement or to assist
another in doing so.
(Prior Code, § 130.19) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 FALSE REPORTING TO AUTHORITIES.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Knowingly cause a false fire or other emergency alarm to be
transmitted to or within any fire department, ambulance service, or other
government agency which deals with emergencies involving danger to life or
property;
   (B)   Make a report or intentionally causes the transmission of a report to
law enforcement authorities of a crime or other incident within their official
concern, when he or she knows that it did not occur; or
   (C)   Make a report or intentionally causes the transmission of a report to
law enforcement authorities which furnishes information relating to an offense
or other incident within their official concern when he or she knows that such
information is false.
(Prior Code, § 130.20) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Falsely reporting a threat, see SDCL § 22-11-9.2
§ 130.21 IMPERSONATION OF POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally impersonate any public
officer or employee, civil or military, or any firefighter or any person having
special authority by law to perform any act affecting the rights or interests
of another, or assumes, without authority, any uniform or badge by which such
officer, employee, firefighter, or person is usually distinguished, and in such
assumed character does any act where another person is injured or defrauded.
(Prior Code, § 130.21) Penalty, see §
130.99
SAFETY PROVISIONS
§ 130.35 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in cruelty to animals. Any Animal Control
Officer finding an animal or fowl mistreated as described in this section shall
have the power to lawfully enter the premises where the animal is kept and
demand to examine such animal and to take possession of such animal, when in
his or her opinion, the animal requires humane treatment.
(Prior Code, § 130.35) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-29-11
§ 130.36 POISONING.
   Unless recommended by the Health Authority, it shall be unlawful for any
person to willfully or maliciously administer or cause to be administered
poison of any sort whatsoever to any animal, the property of another, with the
intent to injure or destroy such animal or to destroy such animal, or to place
any poison or poisoned food where such is accessible to any such animal.
(Prior Code, § 130.36) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.37 ABANDONING OF AN ANIMAL.
   No person shall abandon an animal in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 130.37) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.38 TRAPPING OF AN ANIMAL.
   No person, without permission of the City Health Department, shall set,
allow to be set, or use any trap for the purpose of catching any animal, which
trap could injure or kill any animal, except rodent traps in the interior of a
building and except by persons employed by or agents of the City Heath
Department or Parks, Recreation, and Forestry Department for purposes of the
city’s health and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 130.38) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.39 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall hunt game in the city.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GAME means any wild bird or animal hunted for sport or for use as food.
      HUNT means to pursue GAME while in possession of a firearm or weapon for
sport, food, or to kill.
   (B)   This section does not apply to peace officers or City Animal Control
Officers in the discharge of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 130.39) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.40 RAILROAD TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any
railroad or car to direct the operation of to operate the same in such a manner
as to prevent unnecessarily the use of any street for the purposes of travel
for a period of time longer than five minutes, except that this provision shall
not apply to trains or cars in continuous motion.
(Prior Code, § 130.40) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.41 SMOKING IN PUBLIC OR PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)    No person may smoke tobacco or carry any lighted tobacco product in
any public place or place of employment.
   (B)   A violation of this section is a petty offense.
(SDCL § 34-46-14)
(Prior Code, § 130.41) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.42 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, damage, deface, break, tamper
with, or otherwise harm property, public or private, real or personal, not his
or her own.
(Prior Code, § 130.42) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.43 WELLS AND CISTERNS COVERED.
   (A)   No person owning or in control of any property shall allow upon any
such property any well, cistern, vault, or other pit except the same be covered
by a good, safe, and substantial covering made of iron or lumber, and securely
fastened in such a manner that the same cannot be removed by children; provided
that any person may have upon his or her premises a well closed by a high board
fence or other substantial enclosure at least five feet high.
   (B)   Any type of well uncovered to without a fence is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 130.43) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.44 ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES.
   (A)   Definitions. The words and phrases defined in this section, shall,
when used in this section, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
such section, except in those instances where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Includes vapor product.
      VAPOR PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product containing nicotine that
employs a heating element, power source, electronic circuit, or other
electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of shape or size, that
can be used to produce vapor from nicotine in a solution or other form. The
term, VAPOR PRODUCT, includes any electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and any
vapor cartridge or other container of nicotine in a solution or other form that
is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device. The term,
VAPOR PRODUCT, does not include any product approved by the United States Food
and Drug Administration for sale as tobacco cessation products and marketed and
sold solely for that purpose.
(SDCL § 34-46-20)
   (B)   Prohibited. No person may sell a vapor product other than in an
unopened package originating with the manufacturer and depicting the warning
labels required by federal law, or sell a vapor product through self-service
display other than a display that is:
      (1)   A vending machine permitted under SDCL § 34-46-2(5); or
      (2)   Located in a tobacco specialty store.
(SDCL § 34-46-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall result in a fine not to exceed $500 or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, §§ 130.99, 135.99)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Disorder and disturbances
   
131.02   Petty theft
   
131.03   Lurking about premises
   
131.04   Hindering or molesting passerby
   
131.05   Playing in streets
   
131.06   Trespass and unauthorized use of property
   
131.07   Open container
   
131.08   Indecent exposure
   
131.09   Indecent act
   
131.10   Discharging firearms
   
131.11   Carrying: persons under 18
   
131.12   Reckless discharge prohibited
   
131.13   Consumption or smoking of cannabis in public places prohibited
   
131.14   Noise regulation and limitation
Juvenile Curfew
   
131.15   Purpose
   
131.16   Definitions
   
131.17   Curfew for juveniles
   
131.18   Responsibilities of owners of public places
   
131.19   Parental responsibility
   
131.20   Enforcement procedures
   
131.21   Construction and severability
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 DISORDER AND DISTURBANCES.
   The municipality shall have power to provide for keeping and preserving the
peace and quietness of the municipality, to prevent disorderly conduct, to
prohibit public intoxication, and to prevent and suppress riots, affrays,
noises, disturbances, and disorderly assemblies in any place.
(Prior Code, § 131.01)
Statutory reference:
General authority, see SDCL § 9-29-3
§ 131.02 PETTY THEFT.
   (A)   Definition. Any person who takes, or exercises unauthorized control
over, property of another, with intent to deprive that person of the property,
is guilty of THEFT.
   (B)   Violations. Theft is petty theft in the second degree if the value of
the property stolen is $400 or less. Petty theft in the second degree is a
Class II misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 131.06)
§ 131.03 LURKING ABOUT PREMISES.
   No person shall lurk or wait or conceal himself or herself in or about any
house or other building, or in or about any yard, street, alley or other public
place, who being so found shall be unwilling or unable to give an explanation
for his or her conduct consistent with a legitimate purpose.
(Prior Code, § 130.22)
§ 131.04 HINDERING OR MOLESTING PASSERBY.
   No person shall upon any street, or at the entrance of any building on any
such street, alley or sidewalk, wrongfully hinder, impede or molest any
passerby, or use any rude, obscene, vulgar, indecent or threatening language to
any passerby, or by any indecent act, gesture or noise molest, annoy or insult
or put in fear any person passing or attempting to pass on such street, alley
or sidewalk or through the entrance to such buildings.
(Prior Code, § 130.23)
§ 131.05 PLAYING IN STREETS.
   No person shall fly any kite, play any game, or engage in any exercise which
obstructs or interferes with the use of the streets for traffic or passage, or
endangers the safety and lives of those thereon.
(Prior Code, § 130.24)
§ 131.06 TRESPASS AND UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall lodge, use or occupy any barn, garage, shop or other
house or building or structure or any automobile, truck, railroad car or other
vehicle without permission of the owner or person entitled to possession.
   (B)   No person shall camp or otherwise lodge in any public way, park or
place which is not specifically designated as an area authorized for camping or
other lodging.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly enter upon any privately-owned real property
which is not open to the use of the public, unless he or she has first obtained
the consent of the owner or person in possession or control thereof.
(Prior Code, § 130.25)
§ 131.07 OPEN CONTAINER.
   (A)   No person shall consume, mix, or blend any alcoholic beverage with any
other beverage, regardless of whether such beverage is an alcoholic beverage,
in any public place excluding the property of the premises of a licensed on-
sale dealer, where such alcoholic beverage was purchased from such dealer for
on-sale purposes and will exclude the municipal parks.
   (B)   No person shall possess in any public place other than upon the
premises of a licensed on- sale dealer any glass, can, bottle or other
containing any alcoholic beverage on which the seal has been broken.
   (C)   Exception. Any person or group may make application to the City of
Summerset for a special use permit to have alcohol in a specific area of the
municipal park for a set date and time.
(Prior Code, § 130.26)
§ 131.08 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   (A)   No person shall appear in any public place or places exposed to public
view in the state of nudity.
   (B)   No person shall appear in any public place or places exposed to public
view with his or her genitals or the female breast covered with paint or any
similar substance without also having the genitals or breast covered with a
full opaque covering. Paint or any similar substance does not qualify as a full
opaque covering.
(Prior Code, § 130.27)
§ 131.09 INDECENT ACT.
   No person shall commit any indecent act in a public place or place exposed
to public view.
(Prior Code, § 130.28)
§ 131.10 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   No person, except an officer of the law in the performance of his or her
duty, shall discharge any firearm within the city.
(Prior code, § 131.03)
§ 131.11 CARRYING: PERSONS UNDER 18.
   No person under the age of 18 shall carry, discharge or shoot off any gun,
pistol, rifle, air gun, carbon dioxide gun, bow or any other firearm, or use
for any purpose any such device for through or forcing through the air missiles
or projectiles of any character, upon the street or about or within the city,
unless accompanied by his or her parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 131.04)
§ 131.12 RECKLESS DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall recklessly discharge or shoot off any air gun, carbon
dioxide gun or bow or use in a reckless manner, any of the aforementioned for
any purpose such as throwing or forcing air missiles or projectiles of any
character within the limits of the city.
(Prior code, § 131.05)
§ 131.13 CONSUMPTION OR SMOKING OF CANNABIS IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to consume or smoke cannabis in any public
place including parks, sidewalks, streets, alleys, rights-of-way, sports
complexes, publicly-owned property, or in any place that is open to the public.
   (A)   A place open to the public is a place in which the public is invited,
included in, on, or around any place of business, parking lot, or place of
amusement or entertainment, whether or not a charge of admission or entry
thereto is required and includes the elevator, lobby, halls, corridors, and
areas open to the public of any store, office or multifamily residential
building, even if such place charges an admission or limits the number of
admittees.
   (B)   Criminal penalty. Violation of the terms of this section may be
enforced through a fine not to exceed the fine established by SDCL § 22-6-2(2)
for each violation or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days for
each violation, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. Title XIII, Sec. 131.13, passed 6-17-2021)
§ 131.14 NOISE REGULATION AND LIMITATION.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this section is to protect, preserve and
promote the health, safety, welfare, peace, quiet and tranquility for the
citizens and persons or visitors frequenting the city through the reduction,
control and prevention of noise which is disruptive and constitutes an
annoyance to such citizens and persons.
   (B)   General restrictions.
      (1)   A person or property owner may not:
         (a)   Make or permit any disruptive noise or use sound equipment in
public or outside between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
         (b)   Operate construction equipment, tools or conduct construction
activities between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
         (c)   Operate sound equipment in a vehicle causing any disruptive
noise or a discernible vibration 20 feet from the vehicle.
      (2)   In addition to the specific prohibitions outlined in division (1)
(a), it is unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or
continued any loud or unusual noise so as to disturb the peace of the public,
any neighborhood, any business operation, family, lawful assembly of persons or
a person by committing any act or acts of disturbance within the city limits.
      (3)   Excessive vehicle noise and dynamic engine braking. It is unlawful
for any person within the city limits of the city to make, or cause to be made,
loud or disturbing or offensive noise with any mechanical devices operated by
compressed air and used for purposes of assisting braking such as dynamic
engine braking devices (commonly referred to as "Jake" brake).
      (4)   Penalty. Any violation of this section will be punishable by a fine
of $100 for each offense, in addition to the payment of any costs and/or
restitution authorized by city ordinances and/or state law.
   (C)   Exemption. Agricultural equipment and production.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 11-4-2021)
JUVENILE CURFEW
§ 131.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the presence of juveniles on
streets and other public places in the city during late night hours. The city
has a compelling interest in said regulation due to the increase of juvenile
delinquency in the city. It is a compelling interest and goal of the city to
protect the public from the illegal acts of juveniles committed after the
curfew hour and also to protect the juveniles from improper influences and from
criminal activity that occurs after the curfew hour. It is also the intent of
this section to help parents control their children.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-1-2007)
§ 131.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. All area within one mile beyond the city limits.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 18 who is in loco parentis to a
juvenile.
   GUARDIAN. Any person other than a parent who has legal guardianship of a
juvenile.
   JUVENILE. Any person under the age of 16.
   PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of a juvenile.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground, or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include
but not be limited to any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, café,
theater, drugstore, poolroom, shopping center, and any other similar place,
including the area immediately adjacent to the PLACE.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-1-2007)
§ 131.17 CURFEW FOR JUVENILES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to idle,
wander about with no specific destination, stroll, play, congregate, or
otherwise be present in any public place, either on foot or in a motor vehicle
after the hour of 10:00 p.m. or before the hour of 5:00 a.m., unless
accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (B)   The foregoing notwithstanding, it shall not be a violation of this
section for a juvenile to be present in a public place if the juvenile can
establish that the presence is necessary to perform an errand or other specific
activity at the direction of the juvenile’s parent, guardian, or custodian or
to travel in the most practical and expeditious route from one nonpublic place
to another nonpublic place at the specific direction of the juvenile’s parent,
guardian, or custodian.
   (C)   Further, it shall not be a violation of this section for any juvenile
to attend a special function or entertainment sponsored by any church, school,
club, or other organization if the juvenile can establish that the attendance
is with the specific permission of the juvenile’s parent, guardian, or
custodian.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-1-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.18 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS OF PUBLIC PLACES.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation operating or having
charge of any privately owned public place to permit or suffer the presence of
a juvenile upon the premises with the knowledge that the juvenile is in
violation of §
131.17.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-1-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.19 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is unlawful for the parent, guardian, or custodian of any juvenile to
permit or suffer by negligent or inefficient control of the juvenile to violate
any provision of this section. It shall not be a violation of this section for
the parent, guardian, or custodian of a juvenile to direct and permit the
juvenile to be present in a public place for the purpose of carrying out a
specific errand or other specific business activity or to participate in a
specific activity of any church, school, club, or organization, or to direct
and permit a juvenile to travel from one nonpublic place to another nonpublic
place by the most practical and direct route and means.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-1-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.20 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   Law enforcement officers are directed to follow the following procedures in
enforcing this section.
   (A)   (1)   A law enforcement officer, upon finding a juvenile in a public
place during the prohibited hours, shall ascertain the name and address of the
juvenile, shall warn the juvenile that he or she is in violation of this
section, and shall direct the juvenile to proceed directly and at once to his
or her home or usual place of abode.
      (2)   The law enforcement officer shall make a written record of the
contact and warning and shall report the contact to the juvenile investigation
section of the Police Department, which shall notify the parent, guardian, or
custodian of the juvenile by telephone or by letter.
   (B)   (1)   If a juvenile refuses to comply with the direction of the law
enforcement officer, or refuses to give the law enforcement officer his or her
correct name and address, or if the juvenile has been warned on a previous
occasion, the juvenile shall be taken into custody.
      (2)   The parent, guardian, or custodian of the juvenile shall be
notified to come and take custody of the juvenile. If the parent, guardian, or
custodian cannot be located or fails or refuses to take custody of the
juvenile, the juvenile shall be remanded to the juvenile authorities.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-1-2007)
§ 131.21 CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   The city does not intend a result that is absurd, impossible to
execute, or unreasonable. It is intended that this subchapter be held
inapplicable in such cases, if any, where its application would be
unconstitutional.
   (B)   Constitutional construction is intended and shall be given. The city
does not intend to violate the State Constitution or the U.S. Constitution.
   (C)   Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (D)   If any provision, including any exception, part, phrase, or term, or
the application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held to be invalid,
the application to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby
and validity of this subchapter in any and all other respects shall not be
affected.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-1-2007)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Intentional damage to property
   
132.02   Interference with municipal property
   
132.03   Injuring signs
   
132.04   Connections of franchised cable television company
   
132.05   Connection with utilities
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 INTENTIONAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally injure, damage, or
destroy public property without the lawful consent of the appropriate governing
body having jurisdiction thereof, or private property in which other persons
have an interest, without the consent of the other persons.
(Prior Code, § 133.01) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
Similar provisions, see SDCL § 22-34-1
§ 132.02 INTERFERENCE WITH MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb or in any manner interfere with
any building, water tower, bridge, or structure belonging to the municipality
without being authorized to do so by the municipality, and it shall also be
unlawful to interfere, deface, or damage any such structure.
(Prior Code, § 133.02) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 INJURING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or to obliterate,
either wholly or partially, any sign, sign board, card placed, posted,
extended, or erected by the city.
(Prior Code, § 133.03) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 CONNECTIONS OF FRANCHISED CABLE TELEVISION COMPANY.
   It shall be unlawful to connect or disconnect or otherwise tamper with any
service connection of any franchised cable television company without the
express prior approval from a designated agent of the cable television company.
(Prior Code, § 133.04) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 CONNECTION WITH UTILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to connect or cause to be connected with any main
service pipe, wire, or other conductor of any gas, water, electrical energy,
any pipe, wire, or other device for the purpose of obtaining gas, water, or
electrical current without first obtaining prior approval from a designated
agent of the appropriate entity.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any person with the intent to defraud,
connect, or cause to be connected with any meter installed, for the purpose of
registering the amount of gas, water, or electricity supplied to any customer
any pipe, wire, or other device or disconnect, change in any manner or
interfere with any such meter or pipe or appliance connected therewith that the
meter will not measure or register the full amount of gas, water, or
electricity supplied to any customer.
(Prior Code, § 133.05) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall result in a fine not to exceed $500 or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 133.99)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
153.   LICENSING AND CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
      
154.   WIND GENERATORS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Statutory authorization
   
150.02   Findings of fact
   
150.03   Statement of purpose
   
150.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
150.05   Definitions
   
150.06   Applicability
   
150.07   Basis for establishing special hazard areas
   
150.08   Establishment of development permit
   
150.09   Compliance
   
150.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
150.11   Interpretation
   
150.12   Warning and disclaimer or liability
   
150.13   Severability
Administration
   
150.25   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
150.26   Duties and responsibilities
   
150.27   Permit procedures
   
150.28   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
150.40   General standards
   
150.41   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
150.42   Penalties for noncompliance
   
150.43   Certification
 
   
150.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Flood Insurance Rate Maps
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The legislature of the state has in SDCL Ch. 9-36 and § 7-18-14
delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to minimize flood losses.
   (B)   Therefore, the Board of Commissioners does ordain as follows:
      (1)   The city elects to comply with the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended).
      (2)   The National Flood Insurance Program, established in the aforesaid
act, provides that areas of the town having a special flood hazard be
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and that floodplain
management measures be applied in such flood hazard areas. The National Flood
Insurance Program, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 through 4128 was broadened and
modified with the passage of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq. and other legislative measures. It was further
modified by the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994, being 42 U.S.C. §§
4001 et seq.
      (3)   The National Flood Insurance Program is administered by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, a component of the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF FUTURE-CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future-conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on a
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD. The land within a community
which is most likely to be subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The
area may be designated as Zone E on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After
the detailed evaluation of the SPECIAL FLOOD-RELATED EROSION HAZARD AREA, in
preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further refined.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has been
completed in preparation for publication of the flood insurance rate map, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of these regulations,
the term SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA is synonymous in meaning with the phrase
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the 1% annual
chance flood. The height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached
by the waters of the BASE FLOOD at pertinent points in the floodplains of
coastal and riverine areas.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended, through its design and construction, to collapse
under specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated
portion of the building or supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EROSION. The process of the gradual wearing away of land masses. This peril
is not per se covered under the Program.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXISTING STRUCTURES. See EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; or
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding as defined division (1)(b) above and are akin to a river of liquid and
flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in FLOODING as defined in division (1)(a) above.
   FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION. A determination by the Administrator of the
water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a
1% or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY OR FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation,
and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water
surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation, and determination of
mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See FLOODING.)
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water, and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES. The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state, and local floodplain maps.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of
the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic reservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Agency.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   SPECIAL HAZARD AREA. An area having special flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow),
or flood-related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AO,
A1-30, AE, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, A99, AH, VO, V1-30, VE, V,
M, or E.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq. (P. L. 97-348).) This includes substantial improvement and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.
      (1)   For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home. STRUCTURE, for insurance purposes, means:
         (a)   A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully
secured roof, that is affixed to a permanent site;
         (b)   A manufactured home (a “manufactured home,” also known as a
mobile home, is a structure built on a permanent chassis, transported to its
site in one or more sections, and affixed to a permanent foundation); or
         (c)   A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed
to a permanent foundation, that is regulated under the community’s floodplain
management and building ordinances or laws.
      (2)   For the latter purpose, STRUCTURE does not mean a recreational
vehicle or a park trailer or other similar vehicle, except as described in
division (1)(c) above or a gas or liquid storage tank.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in VIOLATION until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.06 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of (community).
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL HAZARD AREAS.
   Areas of special flood hazard have not been identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency for the city. The Flood Prone Area Map, dated July,
2010, and adopted by the city is based on topography and historical knowledge
of the areas prone to flooding.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.13 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court, the remainder of the chapter shall not
be affected.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.25 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Board of Commissioners will appoint the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 C.F.R. (National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining
to floodplain management.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010; Ord. 2024-02, passed 4-18-2024)
§ 150.26 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review the permit application to determine whether proposed
construction or other development, including the placement of manufactured
homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is required; and
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.27 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
      (2)   Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures at least
one foot above;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure shall be flood-proofed;
         (c)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure shall meet the
flood-proofing criteria of this chapter;
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (e)   Maintain a record of all such information.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan for
that area.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.28 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in division (C) above have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (I)   Prerequisites for granting variances are as follows.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (J)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use, provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (J) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 150.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.41 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.42 PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   In accordance with 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 59.2(b) of the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP) regulation, to qualify for the sale of federally
subsidized flood insurance, a community must adopt floodplain management
regulations that meet or exceed the minimum standards of 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 60.
“These regulations must include effective enforcement provisions.” In
accordance with 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 60.1(b) of the NFIP regulations, “these
regulations must be legally-enforceable, applied uniformly throughout the
community to all privately and publicly owned land within flood-prone (i.e.,
mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas, and the community must provide that
the regulations take precedence over less restrictive conflicting local laws,
ordinances, or codes.”
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.43 CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   It is hereby found and declared by the community of the city that
severe flooding has occurred in the past within its jurisdiction and will
certainly occur within the future; that flooding is likely to result in
infliction of serious personal injury or death and is likely to result in
substantial injury or destruction of property within its jurisdiction; in order
to effectively comply with minimum standards for coverage under the National
Flood Insurance Program; and in order to effectively remedy the situation
described herein, it is necessary that this chapter become effective
immediately.
   (B)   Therefore, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and this chapter,
being necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, and
safety, shall be in full force and effect from and after the date of passage of
the ordinance codified herein and its approval.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this
chapter by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a Class II misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, for each violation, and in
addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 23, passed 8-19-2010)
APPENDIX A: FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9f42a6215a249f963e52e3b521c7792934d23131/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9f42a6215a249f963e52e3b521c7792934d23131/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9f42a6215a249f963e52e3b521c7792934d23131/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9f42a6215a249f963e52e3b521c7792934d23131/
IMAGES/0-0-0-40.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9f42a6215a249f963e52e3b521c7792934d23131/
IMAGES/0-0-0-42.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9f42a6215a249f963e52e3b521c7792934d23131/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9f42a6215a249f963e52e3b521c7792934d23131/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9f42a6215a249f963e52e3b521c7792934d23131/
IMAGES/0-0-0-48.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Jurisdiction
   
151.003   Severability and separability
   
151.004   Definitions
   
151.005   Experimental subdivisions
   
151.006   Variances
Requirements for the Subdivision of Land
   
151.020   General requirements
   
151.021   General design requirements
Plat Application and Review Procedure
   
151.035   General procedure
   
151.036   Layout plan
   
151.037   Preliminary and final plat
   
151.038   Minor plat
Plat Preparation Requirements
   
151.050   Layout plans
   
151.051   Preliminary plats
   
151.052   Supplemental information
   
151.053   Final plats
   
151.054   Minor plats
Improvements
   
151.065   Design and installation of improvements
   
151.066   Required improvements
   
151.067   Joint improvements
   
151.068   Improvements proposed by the subdivider
Vacation of Plats, Easements, and Public Rights-of-Way and Section Line
Highways
   
151.080   Vacation of plats
   
151.081   Vacation of easements
   
151.082   Vacation of public rights-of-way and section line highways
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter regulates the subdivision of land within the jurisdiction of
the city for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, and general welfare
of the community. The Board of Commissioners has deemed these regulations and
controls to be reasonable and reasonably related to the needs of the residents
of the city and the surrounding area.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.002 JURISDICTION.
   Pursuant to SDCL § 11-6-26, this chapter shall govern all territory within
the statutory jurisdiction of the city, which includes all land located within
the incorporated limits of the city, all land within one mile of the city’s
corporate boundaries, and all land designated by the Board of Commissioners to
be within the extraterritorial platting jurisdiction of the city. The city’s
extraterritorial platting jurisdiction map is incorporated herein by this
reference.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017; Ord. 2023-17, passed 12-7-2023)
§ 151.003 SEVERABILITY AND SEPARABILITY.
   Should any subchapter, section, or division of this chapter be found to be
or declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of the chapter
as a whole or any part thereof, other than the portion so declared to be
invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, and in order to carry out the provisions
and intentions as set forth herein, certain words, terms, and phrases are to be
used and interpreted as defined hereafter. Words used in the present tense
shall include the future tense; words in the singular number include the
plural; words in the plural number include the singular; the word “person”
includes a firm, partnership, or corporation as well as an individual; the term
“shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary; and the word “may” is
permissive. The terms “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building
shall be construed to include the terms “intended, arranged, or designed to be
used or occupied.”
   ALLEY. A service roadway providing only a secondary means of access to
abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the City of Summerset.
   BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENT. A division of land made for the purpose of
alteration by adjusting boundary lines, between platted or unplatted lots or
both, which does not create any additional lot, tract, parcel, site, or
division, nor create any lot, tract, parcel, site, or division which contains
insufficient area and dimensions to meet minimum requirements for width and
area for a building site and may be accomplished in nonconforming situations
when the degree of nonconformity is not increased. BOUNDARY LINES ADJUSTMENTS
will be submitted as per minor plat application so long as they meet the
requirements of §
151.038.
   BUILDING PERMIT. Written permission issued by a Building Official for the
construction, repair, alteration, or addition to a building.
   CITY. The City of Summerset, South Dakota.
   CLEARING. Removing vegetative cover.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system that serves at least 15
service connections used by year-round residents or regularly serves at least
24 year-round residents.
   DEDICATED PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. A parcel of land that is conveyed to the
public by the notation “dedicated public right-of-way” on a recorded plat for
use as a public right-of-way.
    DENR. The State Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
   DEVELOPER’S AGREEMENT. A contractual agreement between the subdivider and
the city which binds the subdivider to the requirements of this chapter.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more property rights by the property owner to
and/or for use by the public or another person. An EASEMENT is self-
perpetuating and runs with the land unless otherwise stipulated.
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   GHOST PLATTING. A method of master planning for future urban densities in
large-lot subdivisions located within the city’s platting jurisdiction.
Platting for future urban lot densities is achieved by the preparation of a
layout plat to provide for future lots, streets, and other improvements.
   GRADING. Excavating, filling, or stockpiling soil.
   GRADING PERMIT. Written permission issued by a Building Official for the
excavation, grading, or fill of earth or other material. The grading permit is
intended to regulate development of agricultural, residential, commercial, and
industrial properties; grading of land within or adjacent to FEMA-designated
flood hazard areas; and construction of subdivision roads or improvements.
   IMPROVEMENT. Changes and additions to land necessary to support the
development or use of real property, such as, but not limited to, boulevards,
bridges, culverts, curbs and gutters, electrical transmission and service
lines, natural gas lines, potable water mains and service lines, sanitary or
storm sewers, sidewalks, street grading and surfacing, street lights, survey
monuments, telephone lines, and other similar items.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by plat,
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used,
developed, or built upon.
   LOT, DOUBLE-FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot. A DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT shall be
deemed to have two front yards and two side yards.
   LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from another
lot or from a public street or any other public space.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from a street right-of-way.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot or parcel of land whose deed has been recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds of the county prior to the effective date of
the ordinance codified herein.
   NON-COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system that is not a community
water system and regularly serves a transient population of 25 or more people
each day.
   OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENT. An improvement required to be made off site as a
result of an application for development and including, but not limited to,
road widening and upgrading, stormwater facilities, and traffic improvements.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE. The vertical rise or fall of a slope in feet and tenths
of a foot for each 100 feet of horizontal distance. The centerline of a street
shall be used to determine the grade of the street.
   PLAN, LAYOUT. A plan of a proposed subdivision to be used to determine the
physical layout, street, and utility systems, and suitability to the city of
the proposed subdivision. This plan shall include all items set forth in §§
151.051 through
151.052.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Board of the city.
   PLANNING OFFICIAL. The authority charged with the administration and
enforcement of this chapter, as designated by the Board of Commissioners.
   PLANNING DEPARTMENT. The Planning Official and/or her or his staff,
designees, agents, or assigns.
   PLAT. A map drawn to scale from an accurate survey for the purpose of
recording a subdivision of land.
   PLAT, FINAL. A plat of a proposed subdivision prepared by a registered land
surveyor that is in a form that is ready to be recorded by the Register of
Deeds and includes all items, certifications, and statements as set forth in §
151.053.
   PLAT, MINOR. A plat of a proposed subdivision prepared by a registered land
surveyor used to: consolidate up to three previously platted lots; resubdivide
a previously platted lot into three of fewer lots; or accomplish a boundary
line adjustment. This plat shall include all items as set forth in §
151.054.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A plat of a proposed subdivision prepared by a registered
land surveyor to be used to establish the terms and conditions for development
of a proposed subdivision. This plat shall include all items set forth in §
151.037.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land defined by right-of-way lines on a plat
that is intended to be occupied by a street, recreation trail, utility line, or
other similar use and to be used by the public.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY EASEMENT. A portion of a parcel of land that is defined
by a notation on a plat as a permanent easement for use as a public right-of-
way.
   PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT. A right granted by an owner of property to a public
utility or governmental agency to erect and maintain poles, wires, pipes, or
conduits on, across, or under the land, for telephone, electric power, gas,
water, sewer, or other utility services.
   RECORDED ACCESS EASEMENT. A permanent easement or dedication providing legal
access to an isolated tract of land.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A surveyor registered and in good standing with
the state.
   RESERVE STRIP. An easement granted to the public for a strip of land to be
held in trust until needed for road development or other beneficial public use.
The easement may be converted to a public right-of-way easement by resolution
of the Board of Commissioners.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES. The lines that form the boundaries of a right-of-way.
   ROAD DISTRICT. An association of land owners formed under the provisions of
SDCL Ch. 31-12A to develop a community or subdivision ROAD DISTRICT with the
intent and purpose of maintaining the system of roads within the district such
that they have the capacity to handle all of the internal traffic and provide
adequate ingress and egress to the members of the entire district. The
association shall develop rules and by-laws to govern the operation of the
association including the election of officers, collection of fees, and the
authorization to develop, repair, and maintain all roads within said system.
   SANITARY SEWER. A municipal, community, small, or individual sewage disposal
system of a type approved by DENR.
   SIDEWALK. A paved area paralleling and usually separated from the traveled
way that is used as a pedestrian walkway.
   STEEP SLOPE. Land areas where the slope of the ground exceeds 20%.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare that affords the principal means of access to
abutting property. This term may be used interchangeably with AVENUE,
BOULEVARD, DRIVE, HIGHWAY, ROAD, or ROADWAY.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street of considerable continuity connecting various
sections of the city or regions adjacent to or beyond the city, which is
designed for high vehicular speed and large volumes of traffic, and may have
the secondary function of providing access to abutting property.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street of sufficient continuity to gather and convey
traffic from local streets to arterial streets and having the secondary
function of providing access to abutting property.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminus for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street having the primary function of providing access to
abutting properties and the secondary function of moving traffic.
   STREET LINE. The boundary line where the street right-of-way line and the
property line of the abutting property coincide.
   STREETSCAPE. A design term referring to all of the elements that constitute
the physical makeup of a street and that, as a group, define its character,
including building frontage, street furniture, street paving, landscaping
(including trees and other plantings), awning and marquees, sidewalks, signs,
and lighting.
   STRUCTURE. A combination of materials that form a construction for use,
occupancy, or ornamentation whether installed on, above, or below the surface
of land or water. Fences, walls used as fences, poles, lines, cables, mains, or
other transmission or distribution facilities of public utilities are not
considered to be STRUCTURES under this definition.
   SUBDIVIDER. The person(s) having an interest in land and in the process of
creating a subdivision of said land.
   SUBDIVIDER’S ENGINEER. The professional engineer registered and in good
standing with the state who is the agent of the subdivider proposing to design
and construct any new subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, sites, or other division for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
sale or building development. This term includes resubdivision.
   SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIALS. The plans, reports, narratives, designs,
requirements, agreements, covenants, and other materials necessary for the
development of a subdivision. These include, but are not limited to, those
items listed in §
151.037.
   SURETY. A fidelity or cash bond, provided by the subdivider to the city in
lieu of immediate construction of required improvements, in an amount equal to
the estimated cost of the improvements, as certified by the subdivider’s
engineer, plus 15%. The Planning Commission or the Board of Commissioners may
request a review of the cost estimate by the City Engineer.
   TANGENT. A straight line, departing from a curve, which is perpendicular to
the radius of that curve.
   USGS DATUM. A United States Geological Survey Geodetic Survey Datum.
   USPLSS. The United States Public Land Survey System.
   VARIANCE. A specific exception, granted by the Board of Commissioners, to
the terms of this chapter where such deviation will not be contrary to the
public interest and will be granted due to circumstances peculiar to a
property.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The vertical surface curvature of a street centerline
located between lines of different percentages of grade.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The ordinance adopted by the city to implement the
Comprehensive Plan by regulating the location and use of buildings and uses of
land.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
Statutory reference:
Related provisions, see SDCL § 11-3-12
§ 151.005 EXPERIMENTAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may waive or modify the standards and
requirements of these regulations if, in their judgment, an unusual or
experimental subdivision might prove of considerable merit toward:
      (1)   The use of unusual materials in constructing required improvements;
and
      (2)   A new or untried design concept in the city area which appears
promising.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall require the subdivider to provide a
written proposal with the layout plan that states the nature of the experiment
and justifies the reasons why the requirements of this chapter cannot be
applied.
   (C)   In granting waivers, modifications, and approvals for experimental
subdivisions, the Board of Commissioners may require such conditions as will,
in its judgment, substantially secure the objectives of the standards or
requirements so waived, modified, or approved. These conditions may include,
without being limited to personal, surety, performance, or maintenance bonds
and affidavits, covenants, or other legal instruments.
   (D)   In addition, if the lands covered lie within a flood hazard area as
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, they must comply with
the requirements of
Chapter 150.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.006 VARIANCES.
   Where the Board of Commissioners finds that extraordinary hardships due to
unusual topographical or other conditions beyond the control of the subdivider
may result from strict compliance with these regulations, it may vary the
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured; provided that the variance will not have the effect of nullifying the
intent or purpose of this chapter,
Chapter 155, major street plan, or other elements of the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SUBDIVISION OF LAND
§ 151.020 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Violation. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
having an interest in any land within the jurisdiction of the city to subdivide
or resubdivide such land into lots other than in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   Subdivision plats subject to review. Any subdivision of land within
the platting jurisdiction of the city containing two or more lots, no matter
how described, shall be platted or replatted, and said plat must be submitted
to the Planning Commission for its consideration and recommendation to the
Board of Commissioners for approval or rejection.
   (C)   Platting required prior to sale/transfer. Any parcel of land of less
than 40 acres which is located within the extraterritorial platting
jurisdiction of the city must be platted prior to the sale or transfer of the
land. The Register of Deeds may not record any document of any sale or transfer
of unplatted property that does not comply with this chapter.
   (D)   Minimum lot sizes. The subdivider shall conform to lot densities
established by
Chapter 155 or, if the subdivision is outside of the city’s municipal limits,
not be less than the minimum lot sizes established by SDAR 74:53:01, which
establishes regulations for individual and small on-site wastewater systems.
   (E)   Annexation. The subdivider shall be required to submit a petition for
voluntary annexation of his or her subdivision into the city with the final or
minor plat application if any portion of the subdivision is adjacent to the
city’s municipal boundary. For the purposes of this chapter, the term
“adjacent” ignores any right-of-way or dedication that lies between the
municipal boundary and the subdivision boundary.
   (F)   Adjacent access and street extension. Land adjacent to a proposed
subdivision shall not have its access left land-locked by a proposed
subdivision. Sufficient proposed streets shall be extended as far as the
boundary line of the parcel being subdivided, and provided with a temporary
cul-de-sac in order to ensure normal circulation of traffic within the
vicinity.
   (G)   Street maintenance. Maintenance of public streets that have not been
accepted for maintenance purposes by the city shall be the responsibility of
the subdivider until said maintenance is accepted by the Board of
Commissioners, in the case of streets outside of the municipal limits of the
city, the Board of Commissioners approves a street maintenance plan that
provides for said maintenance.
   (H)   Lot monuments, numbering, and naming. All property corners, including
the beginning (point of curvature) and ending (point of tangency) of curves
along property lines, shall be accurately marked on the ground with a five-
eighths inch to one-and-one-quarter-inch diameter iron rod at least 18 inches
in length. Each bar is to be capped with an aluminum or plastic cap indicating
the license number of the surveyor who placed the bar in the ground. The
monumentation of all corners required by SDCL § 11-3-2 shall be fixed in the
ground at the locations shown on the approved preliminary plat before the final
plat application is submitted to the Planning Official for review. Lots shall
be numbered or named in accordance with SDCL § 11-3-3.
   (I)   Ghost platting. Ghost platting shall be required for all subdivisions
within the platting jurisdiction of the city that create one or more lots of
one or more acres that may be resubdivided in the future. Those subdivisions
utilizing the minor plat procedure that have not previously been subject to
ghost platting may be exempted from this requirement by the Board of
Commissioners. The ghost plat shall be included as part of the developer’s
agreement for the proposed subdivision and shall not be subject to expiration.
   (J)   Additional administrative rules. The Board of Commissioners may
formulate additional written administrative rules that govern the procedure for
processing subdivisions. These procedures may outline the responsibility of
parties concerned with subdivisions and subdivision processing, and may contain
other information necessary to systematize handling and processing.
   (K)   Fees. Application fees shall be set by resolution by the Board of
Commissioners. At no time shall a plat or other subdivision regulations
application be brought before the Board of Commissioners without the proper
fees being collected.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
Statutory reference:
Related provisions, see SDCL § 11-6-31
§ 151.021 GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The design requirements set forth below shall be considered as minimum
standards and may be exceeded by the subdivider.
   (A)   Preservation of existing features. Existing features that would
enhance the development of the area as a whole, such as trees, historic sites,
or striking physical features, shall be preserved in the design of the
subdivision.
   (B)   Grading permit required. No trees shall be removed from any
subdivision nor any change of grade of land be made until an approved grading
permit has been issued by a Building Official. Engineering reports may be
required from the developer before issuance of the grading permit.
   (C)   Lot access. Each lot within the subdivision shall be provided with
access to a street.
   (D)   Easements. Easements for utilities and minor drainage ways shall be
provided on every lot within the subdivision.
   (E)   Development of areas subject to flooding. Low areas within the
subdivision subject to periodic flooding shall not be developed except for such
uses that are compatible with such an area. FEMA Floodway Maps and Flood
Insurance Rate Maps may provide a guide to determining areas with flooding
potential.
   (F)   Avoidance of improvements prohibited. Land shall not be subdivided in
a manner which omits part of the original tract to avoid otherwise necessary
improvements, such as (but not limited to) stormwater management facilities or
streets.
   (G)   Street or subdivision names. Street or subdivision names shall not
duplicate by spelling or sound or otherwise be confused with the names of
existing streets or subdivisions. Such names are subject to approval of the
Planning Official after consultation with the appropriate Emergency Services
Communication (911) Official and Register of Deeds.
   (H)   Block lengths. Block lengths shall not exceed 800 feet and shall
normally be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth.
   (I)   Commercial and industrial lots. Lots in commercial and industrial
zoning districts shall be designed to have sufficient depth and width to
provide off-street loading, unloading, and parking for the proposed use.
   (J)   Lot configuration and buffering. Double-frontage and reverse frontage
lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from arterial streets, to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography, or to provide mitigation from the effects of
adjoining commercial or industrial zoning districts. The Board of Commissioners
may require that a planting screen or an earth berm be constructed by the
subdivider along the line of lots abutting an arterial street, topographic
feature, or adjoining commercial or industrial zoning district.
   (K)   Side lot lines. Side lot lines shall be designed at right angles to
streets except on curves, where they shall be radial.
   (L)   Exterior street connections. Subdivisions shall be provided with
street connections to at least two exterior public streets unless otherwise
first approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (M)   Improvement of abutting streets. If the land to be subdivided abuts an
existing street that is surfaced but not paved, the subdivider shall improve
the street in compliance with the city’s specifications.
   (N)   Mail delivery. Installation of gang mailboxes and a vehicle turnout
will be required if so requested by the Postmaster.
   (O)   Alleys. Alleys shall be required in commercial and industrial zoning
districts unless other provisions are first approved by the Board of
Commissioners for service access for loading, unloading, and parking.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
PLAT APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE
§ 151.035 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The procedure for submittal and review of a subdivision plat shall
consist of the following steps in sequence:
      (1)   Layout plan (optional);
      (2)   Preliminary plat;
      (3)   Installation of required improvements; and
      (4)   Final plat; or, alternatively, a minor plat when the subdivision
plat meets the purpose of §
151.038.
   (B)   The subdivider is encouraged to meet with the Planning Official at any
time during the platting process to discuss the conformity of the proposed
subdivision with the city’s goals and objectives, the application and review
procedures, and/or specific platting requirements.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.036 LAYOUT PLAN.
   (A)   General. Prior to submitting an application to the Planning Department
for a preliminary plat, or a minor plat, the subdivider may optionally submit a
layout plan to obtain written feedback from the Planning Department regarding:
      (1)   The appropriateness of the intended land use of the proposed
development;
      (2)   The suitability of the location of the proposed subdivision;
      (3)   The most advantageous subdivision plan;
      (4)   The arrangement of proposed streets and lots;
      (5)   The availability of service from city sanitary sewer; and
      (6)   Compliance with the ordinances and regulations of the city.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   The subdivider may submit a layout plan application to the Planning
Department at any time. The layout plan application consists of an original and
two paper copies of each of the following:
         (a)   A layout plan application form;
         (b)   A one-page written layout plan description of the proposed
subdivision and the subdivider’s intent for the subdivision (including
resubdivision);
         (c)   A scaled layout plan of the proposed subdivision (prepared on
eight and one-half by 11-inch paper);
         (d)   An electronic copy of the layout plan in a file format approved
by the Planning Official; and
         (e)   Any supplemental materials.
      (2)   The application form must be signed by the subdivider, the
landowner(s) (if different than the subdivider), and (if applicable) the
subdivider’s agent. The Planning Official shall provide a copy of the layout
plan application to each Planning Commission member and relevant departments
for review.
   (C)   Application review. Upon receipt of the application, the Planning
Commission members and relevant departments shall independently review the
layout plan application and provide feedback as per division (A) above. The
intent of the review is not to approve or deny the layout plan application, but
rather to provide the subdivider with sufficient guidance to enable the
subdivider to prepare a preliminary plat or minor plat and necessary
supplemental materials. The Planning Department may require the subdivider to
provide additional information if such information is needed to fully review
the layout plan and may continue the review of the application until the
additional information is provided by the subdivider. The Planning Department
shall provide written comments to the subdivider based on the feedback received
from the Planning Commission members and relevant departments within 30 days of
the receipt of the application, unless the subdivider agrees to an extension of
this time limit.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.037 PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Preliminary plat application.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit preliminary plat application and a plat
submission checklist to the Planning Department more than three weeks
(inclusive) before a regular meeting of the Planning Commission. The
preliminary plat application consists of an original and two paper copies of
each of the following:
         (a)   A preliminary plat application form;
         (b)   A preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision prepared on 15 by
26-inch paper by a registered land surveyor;
         (c)   A reduced copy of the preliminary plat on eight and one-half by
11-inch paper;
         (d)   An electronic copy of the preliminary plat in a file format
approved by the Planning Official;
         (e)   All necessary plans prepared by a professional engineer in
accordance with the requirements of §
151.052;
         (f)   A copy of any covenants for the proposed subdivision; and
         (g)   Any supplemental materials.
      (2)   The application form must be signed by the subdivider, the
landowner(s) (if different that the subdivider), and (if applicable) the
subdivider’s agent. The non-refundable preliminary plat application fee is due
and payable at the time of submission of the application. Upon receipt of the
application, the Planning Department will inform the subdivider of the date,
time, and location of the Planning Commission meeting at which the application
will be reviewed. The Planning Department may also solicit comments on the
application from other agencies or departments before the Planning Commission
meeting and shall provide a copy of the application to each Planning Commission
member before the Planning Commission meeting.
   (B)   Planning Commission review and recommendation. Upon receipt of the
application, the Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat
application and ensure that the requirements of this chapter and the
Comprehensive Plan have been met. The Planning Commission may require the
subdivider to provide additional information if such is deemed necessary and
may continue its review of the application until the additional information is
provided by the subdivider. The Planning Commission shall forward a
recommendation to approve, approve with conditions, or deny approval of the
application to the Board of Commissioners within 30 days of the receipt of the
application, unless the subdivider agrees to an extension of this time limit.
The subdivider may request that the final plat application be reviewed
immediately after completion of the review of the preliminary plat application
by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Board of Commissioners review and action. The Board of Commissioners,
at its next regular meeting after the Planning Commission makes its
recommendation, shall review the preliminary plat application and the Planning
Commission’s recommendation and act upon said recommendation. Approval of a
preliminary plat by the Board of Commissioners shall be effective for two years
from the date of approval. An extension(s) beyond the two-year period for a
period not to exceed one year may be granted by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Installation of improvements. Following approval of the preliminary
plat by the Board of Commissioners, the subdivider may proceed with the
construction of streets and installation of other approved improvements.
   (E)   Inspection of improvements or surety required prior to final plat
application. The subdivider, upon inspection and approval of streets and other
required improvements by the Planning Official, Public Works Official, and/or
the City Engineer (or their designees), shall submit a final plat application
to the Planning Department based upon the approved preliminary plat. The
subdivider may request to provide surety sufficient to construct or install the
improvements plus a 15% administration reserve in lieu of immediate
construction.
   (F)   Final plat application.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit a final plat application to the
Planning Department more than two weeks (inclusive) before a regular meeting of
the Planning Commission. The final plat application consists of an original and
one paper copy of each of the following:
         (a)   A final plat application form;
         (b)   A final plat of the proposed subdivision prepared by a
registered land surveyor on 15 by 26-inch Mylar. Two Mylar originals of the
final plat may be required if the land being subdivided is located in two
counties. The Mylar original(s), when submitted, shall include, in permanent
black ink, the notarized signatures of the owner(s), and the signatures and
seals (if applicable) of the surveyor, the County Treasurer(s) and Official(s)
of Equalization or their designees, and the Highway Authority(s);
         (c)   A reduced copy of the final plat on eight and one-half by 11-
inch paper;
         (d)   An electronic copy of the final plat in a file format approved
by the Planning Official;
         (e)   Surety for required improvements and/or a developer’s agreement,
if applicable; and
         (f)   Any supplemental materials.
      (2)   The application form must be signed by the subdivider, the
landowner(s) (if different than the subdivider), and (if applicable) the
subdivider’s agent. The non-refundable final plat application fee is due and
payable at the time of submission of the application. Upon receipt of the
application, the Planning Department will inform the subdivider of the date,
time, and location of the Planning Commission meeting at which the application
will be received and reviewed. The Planning Department shall provide a copy of
the application to each Planning Commission member before the Planning
Commission meeting.
   (G)   Planning Commission review and recommendation. Upon receipt of the
application, the Planning Commission shall review the final plat application
and ensure the final plat conforms to the approved preliminary plat and that
the conditions of approval of the preliminary plat have been met. The Planning
Commission shall forward a recommendation to approve, approve with conditions,
or deny approval of the final plat to the Board of Commissioners within 30 days
of the receipt of the application, unless the subdivider agrees to an extension
of this time limit.
   (H)   Board of Commissioners review and action and recording of final plat.
The Board of Commissioners, at its next regular meeting after the Planning
Commission makes its recommendation, shall review the final plat application
and the Planning Commission’s recommendation and act upon said recommendation.
If the final plat is approved by the Board of Commissioners, the Planning
Department shall, within 15 days of said approval, submit the signed Mylar
original(s) of the final plat to the office of the Register of Deeds to be
recorded. No building or other applicable permits shall be issued within the
newly-platted subdivision until the Register of Deeds has recorded the Mylar
original(s) of the approved final.
   (I)   Dedication of public infrastructure and land. The Board of
Commissioners, upon approval of the final plat and upon receipt from the Public
Works Official of a certificate of final completion, may accept the dedication
of public infrastructure, rights-of-way, and parks from the subdivider.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.038 MINOR PLAT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a minor plat is to allow, without being
subject to the requirements of a preliminary plat review, consolidation of up
to three previously platted lots the resubdivision of a previously platted lot
into three or fewer lots or a boundary line adjustment.
   (B)   Time restriction on further platting. No lot created by a minor plat
shall be included in another subdivision plat for a period of two years from
the Register of Deeds’ filing date of the minor plat.
   (C)   No improvements required. Minor plats shall not be allowed if
extensions of, or improvements to, community water, city sanitary sewer,
drainage facilities, or public streets would be required if the minor plat is
approved.
   (D)   Application.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit a minor plat application to the
Planning Department more than three weeks (inclusive) before a regular meeting
of the Planning Commission. The minor plat application shall consist of an
original and one copy of each of the following:
         (a)   Minor plat application form;
         (b)   A minor plat of the proposed subdivision prepared by a
registered land surveyor on 15 by 26-inch Mylar;
         (c)   A reduced copy of the minor plat on eight and one-half by 11-
inch paper;
         (d)   An electronic copy of the minor plat in a file format approved
by the Planning Official; and
         (e)   Any supplemental materials.
      (2)   The application form must be signed by the subdivider, the
landowner(s) (if different than the subdivider), and (if applicable) the
subdivider’s agent. The non-refundable minor plat application fee is due and
payable at the time of submission of the application. Upon receipt of the
application, the Planning Department will inform the subdivider of the date,
time, and location of the Board of Commissioners meeting at which the
application will be received and reviewed. The Planning Department shall
provide a copy of the application to each Planning Commission member before the
Planning Commission meeting. The subdivider shall not submit a Mylar original
of the minor plat to the Planning Department until after the Planning
Commission has made its recommendation to the Board of Commissioners. The Mylar
original shall have the signatures required in §
151.053(D) when it is submitted to the Board of Commissioners for review.
   (E)   Planning Commission review and recommendation. The Planning Commission
shall review the minor plat application to ensure it conforms to the
requirements of this chapter and make a recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners within 30 days of receipt of a completed minor plat application,
unless the subdivider agrees to an extension of this time limit.
   (F)   Board of Commissioners review and action and recording of the minor
plat. The Board of Commissioners, at its next regular meeting after the
Planning Commission makes its recommendation and after receipt by the Planning
Department of the signed original Mylar(s), shall review the minor plat
application and the Planning Commission’s recommendation and act upon said
recommendation. If the minor plat is approved by the Board of Commissioners,
the Planning Department shall, within 15 days of said approval, submit the
signed Mylar original(s) of the minor plat to the office of the Register of
Deeds to be recorded. No building or other applicable permits shall be issued
within the newly platted subdivision until the Register of Deeds has recorded
the Mylar original(s) of the approved minor plat.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
PLAT PREPARATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.050 LAYOUT PLANS.
   (A)   The following information is required on a layout plan:
      (1)   A title showing the proposed name of the subdivision and the
current legal description and location of the land proposed for subdivision;
      (2)   A scaled drawing of the proposed subdivision showing the location
of lots, streets, and public areas;
      (3)   A north arrow, scale, creation date, and legend;
      (4)   A vicinity sketch showing the proposed subdivision in relation to
surrounding development (this sketch may be on a separate eight and one-half by
11-inch sheet); and
      (5)   The proposed names of subdivision streets and the widths of their
rights-of-way.
   (B)   The subdivider is encouraged to provide additional information to
support the layout plan application.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.051 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   The following information is required on a preliminary plat.
   (A)   Plat title.
         (1)   The plat title shall be centered at the top of the page and
consist of two parts: the primary title, which shall be the proposed name of
the subdivision and shall be shown on the first line of the title; and the
secondary title, which is located below the primary title and describes the
subdivision, the description of the land being subdivided, and the location of
the subdivision (including the section, township, range, and Black Hills
Meridian).
         (2)   The following are two examples of plat titles.
 
EXAMPLE 1 SUBDIVISION
A plat of Lots 1-20 of Example 1 Subdivision, formerly Tract B of Out There
Subdivision, located in the NE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Section 22, T2N, R9E, B.H.M.,
Meade County, SD.
 
EXAMPLE 2 SUBDIVISION
A plat of Lots 1-6 of Example 2 Subdivision of the City of Summerset, formerly
Outlot F of the Old Addition to the City of Summerset, located in the NW 1/4 of
Section 19, T2N, R9E, B.H.M., City of Summerset, Meade County, SD.
 
   (B)   Scaled map. A scaled map of the proposed subdivision showing the
location, dimension, and area of the subdivision, lot, street, and dedication
boundaries. Subdivisions, lots, and streets of adjoining subdivisions shall be
shown on the map. Phase lines shall be shown if the subdivision is to be
developed in phases.
   (C)   Map information. A north arrow, scale, creation date, preparer name
and address, and legend.
   (D)   Easements. The location, width, and purpose of all easements and
reserve strips.
   (E)   Public land dedication. The location and dimension of lands to be
dedicated or reserved for streets, parks, open space, or other public use.
   (F)   Lot and block identification. The lot and (if needed) block number
that clearly identifies each parcel of land.
   (G)   Floodplain note. A floodplain note addressing if any FEMA-defined
flood hazard area is present within the subdivision.
   (H)   Major drainage easement note. A note (if there are any major drainage
easements shown on the plat) stating: “Major drainage easements shall be kept
free of all obstructions, including fences, and that the major drainage
easement. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and maintenance in order to facilitate
drainage through these easements.”
   (I)   Utility and minor drainage easement note. A note stating: “An eight-
foot utility and minor drainage easement is hereby granted on the interior of
all lot lines. Removal or modification of any obstruction or impediment to such
an easement shall be the financial responsibility of the landowner.”
   (J)   Certifications. All certifications and signature lines that are
required on the final plat. (See §
151.053(D).)
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
Statutory reference:
Related provisions, see SDCL § 11-3-7
§ 151.052 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION.
   The following supplemental information shall be required unless the Board of
Commissioners approves a variance request submitted by the subdivider to waive
specific requirements. The submissions identified below are to include the
number of paper copies indicated (inclusive of one original) plus one
electronic copy (submitted by disk, email, or other electronic media approved
by the Planning Official).
   (A)   Soil erosion and sediment control plan: two paper copies. Each copy
shall contain the following:
      (1)   A scaled topographic survey map of the proposed subdivision site
showing proposed lot lines and two-foot contour intervals;
      (2)   A soil erosion control plan showing locations and areas of
anticipated soil disturbance and the proposed erosion control structures and
practices that will be used to control the anticipated erosion;
      (3)   A sediment control plan detailing the structures and practices that
will be applied to control sediment generated by on-site erosion;
      (4)   A seeding and planting plan for any screening strips or other
landscaped areas required by the Board of Commissioners;
      (5)   Evidence of acceptance of the subdivider’s application onto the
State National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit by DENR;
and
      (6)    A soils engineering report and/or an engineering geology report
may be requested by the Board of Commissioners when unstable soils or steep
slopes are present within or adjacent to the subdivision.
      (7)   Subdivision improvements required by type.
         (a)   High Density subdivisions shall be required to have the
following (10,000 + sq. ft): Geotechnical soil borings must be completed by a
geotechnical engineer with one soil boring hole at a depth of at least 15 feet
deep per every 12 lots unless otherwise recommended that additional depth or
additional soil borings based on soil conditions are needed by the geotechnical
engineer.
         (b)   Modified High Density subdivisions shall be required to have the
following (one to three acres): Geotechnical soil borings must be completed by
a geotechnical engineer with one soil boring hole at a depth of at least 15
feet deep per every six lots unless otherwise recommended that additional depth
or additional soil borings based on soil conditions are needed by the
geotechnical engineer.
         (c)   Medium Density subdivisions shall be required to have the
following (three to nine acres): Geotechnical soil borings must be completed by
a geotechnical engineer with one soil boring hole at a depth of at least 15
feet deep per every four lots unless otherwise recommended that additional
depth or additional soil borings based on soil conditions are needed by the
geotechnical engineer.
         (d)   Commercial subdivisions shall be required to have the following:
Geotechnical soil borings must be completed by a geotechnical engineer with one
soil boring hole at a depth of at least 25 feet deep per every lot unless
otherwise recommended that additional depth or additional soil borings based on
soil conditions are needed by the geotechnical engineer.
         (e)   Multi-residential subdivisions shall be required to have the
following (one + acres): Geotechnical soil borings must be completed by a
geotechnical engineer with one soil boring hole at a depth of at least 25 feet
deep per every four lots unless otherwise recommended that additional depth or
additional soil borings based on soil conditions are needed by the geotechnical
engineer.
   (B)   Water distribution plan: four paper copies.
      (1)   Two of the copies are meant to be used for review by the Planning
Department, the Public Works Official, and the City Engineer. Two of the copies
are to be submitted to DENR by the subdivider’s engineer for review and comment
after review by city staff.
      (2)   Each copy shall contain the following:
         (a)   A scaled plan and profile drawing showing the location and size
of the water distribution system including such features as pipes, valves,
fittings, hydrants, high pressure pumping equipment, pressure reduction valves,
and the locations and methods proposed for connection to the community water
system; and
         (b)   A scaled drawing showing the location and size of the service
tap for each lot.
   (C)   Sanitary sewer plan: four paper copies.
      (1)   Two of the copies are meant to be used for review by the Planning
Department, the Public Works Official, and the City Engineer. Two of the copies
are to be submitted to DENR by the subdivider’s engineer for review and comment
after review by city staff.
      (2)   Each copy shall contain the following information:
         (a)   A scaled plan and profile drawing of the proposed subdivision’s
sanitary sewer system showing the location and size of all existing and
proposed sewer facilities in and adjacent to the subdivision; and
         (b)   The direction of flow of each sewer main; the location and type
of each manhole and other sewerage system appurtenance, including lift
stations, treatment plants, and connection locations to the city’s sanitary
sewer system; and the service tap location and method for each lot.
   (D)   Stormwater management plan: two paper copies.
      (1)   The plan shall provide stormwater management for the entire
subdivision and each block within the subdivision.
      (2)   Each copy shall contain the following information:
         (a)   A scaled plan and profile drawing of the location of existing
and proposed drainage ways, detention structures, streams, and water features
in and adjacent to the subdivision with a notation of the direction of water
flow through the subdivision;
         (b)   The location of easements and rights-of-way for drainage ways
and maintenance access thereof;
         (c)   The location, size, and invert elevations of proposed drainage
structures, such as culverts, bridges, pipes, drop inlets, and headwalls;
         (d)   A report on both pre- and post-development runoff within and
through the subdivision;
         (e)   The area of land contributing runoff to each drainage structure;
         (f)   A report on the capacity of downstream drainage structures and
channels and the effects of the proposed subdivision’s development on
downstream capacities; and
         (g)   All stormwater management structures and conveyances shall be
designed to accommodate a 100-year, 24-hour design storm.
   (E)   Utility distribution plan: two paper copies.
      (1)   This shall include gas, electric, cable, and telephone utilities.
      (2)   Each copy shall contain the following information:
         (a)   A scaled plan and profile drawing showing the location of gas
mains, street lights, electric lines, telephone lines, cable television lines,
and facilities as necessary to serve each lot within the subdivision and, where
necessary, adjacent property; and
         (b)   A scaled map showing required easements, including anchor
easements for guy wires.
   (F)   Street plan: two paper copies.
      (1)   This shall be used for review by the Planning Department, the
Public Works Official, and the City Engineer. Additional copies may be required
for review by the County Highway Superintendent(s) or the South Dakota
Department of Transportation (SDDOT) Rapid City Region Engineer.
      (2)   Each copy shall contain the following information:
         (a)   A plan and profile drawing of the location and names of all
streets in and adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the widths and areas of
existing and proposed rights-of-way, the locations, dimensions, and areas of
all parks and dedications, and the location of all required sidewalks, curbs
and gutters, drop inlets, gang mailboxes, street name and traffic control
signage, bike or walking paths, crosswalks, and curb cuts;
         (b)   A notation of any major street that is identified in the major
street plan; and
         (c)   The topography of the subdivision at two-foot contour intervals,
unless a smaller contour interval is requested by the City Engineer, showing
the location of streets and rights-of-way.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners may require that a traffic impact study
be prepared for a large subdivision.
   (G)   Street maintenance plan: two paper copies.
      (1)   This shall be submitted for all plats within the extraterritorial
platting jurisdiction of the city to provide evidence that a legal entity will
provide the mechanism for street maintenance and snow removal on all proposed
subdivision streets.
      (2)   Each copy shall include one or more of the following documents:
         (a)   An agreement with the county indicating that the proposed street
will be accepted by the county for road maintenance and snow removal;
         (b)   Evidence that a Road District has been established in accordance
with SDCL Ch. 31-12A;
         (c)   An agreement to be approved by the Board of Commissioners which
guarantees sufficient financial commitment to provide these services; and
         (d)   A written request to be approved by the Board of Commissioners
for a waiver based upon one or more of the following:
            1.   The proposed subdivision includes four or fewer lots and
resubdivision is unlikely under existing zoning or covenants;
            2.   Unusual topographic restraints which would prevent acceptance
of the street for public maintenance; or
            3.   Other unique circumstances proposed to the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017; Ord. 2022-07, passed 7-7-2022)
§ 151.053 FINAL PLATS.
   The following information is required on final plats.
   (A)   Size and material. The original final plat shall be drawn in
waterproof black ink upon a 15- by 26-inch Mylar sheet.
   (B)   Final plat title. The title of the final plat shall be the same as
that approved for the preliminary plat, except for modifications approved by
the Board of Commissioners for phased development of the proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Congruency with preliminary plat. The final plat shall include the
information shown on the approved preliminary plat (as described in §
151.051) except for modifications approved by the Board of Commissioners for
phased development of the proposed subdivision.
   (D)   Certifications and resolution. The following certifications and
resolutions shall appear on the final plat followed by lines for the
appropriate signature(s) and date.
      (1)   Landowner. The landowner, or his or her duly authorized agent,
shall certify that the plat has been made at the request and under the
direction of the landowner for the purposes indicated therein, that he or she
is the owner of all land included therein, and that development of this land
shall conform to all existing applicable zoning, subdivision, and erosion and
sediment control regulations. This certification shall be acknowledged before
some officer authorized to take the acknowledgment of deeds, and this
acknowledgment shall be endorsed on the plat.
      (2)   Registered land surveyor. The registered land surveyor who actually
performed the survey or had the survey performed under his or her direct
supervision shall certify that the plat is in all respects correct and shall
attach thereto his or her official seal as specified in SDCL § 36-18A-45.
      (3)   City Finance Officer. The City Finance Officer shall certify that
all special assessments that are liens upon any land included within such plat,
as shown by the records of her or his office, have been fully paid.
      (4)   County Treasurer. The County Treasurer shall certify that all taxes
that are liens upon any land included within such plat, as shown by the records
of her or his office, have been fully paid.
      (5)   County Official of Equalization. The County Official of
Equalization shall certify that he or she has received a copy of such plat.
      (6)   Street or Highway Authority.
         (a)   The appropriate Street or Highway Authority shall certify that
the location of the proposed access to an abutting subdivision street(s) from
the existing public street or highway is hereby approved and any change in the
location of said access street(s) shall require additional approval.
         (b)   The signature lines for this certification may be required
multiple times on the plat to accommodate the signatures of the City Street
Authority, the County Highway Authorities, the Rapid City Region Engineer for
the State Department of Transportation, and/or the President of the applicable
Road District.
      (7)   Planning Commission. A Planning Commission member shall certify
that the city’s Planning and Zoning Board has reviewed such final plat on
(date) and has provided a recommendation to the Board of Commissioners.
      (8)   Board of Commissioners resolution.
         (a)   Every plat shall bear of copy of the resolution approving the
plat by the Board of Commissioners, which shall state:
 
WHEREAS there has been presented to the Board of Commissioners, the within plat of
the above-described lands, and it appears to this Board of Commissioners that:
   (A)   The system of streets set forth therein conforms to the system of streets
of the existing plats of the city;
   (B)   All provisions of the city’s subdivision regulations have been complied
with;
   (C)   All taxes and special assessments upon the tract or subdivision have been
fully paid; and
   (D)   Such plat and the survey thereof have been executed according to law.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that said plat is hereby approved in all respects.
 
         (b)   This resolution shall be signed and dated by the Mayor and
certified by the Finance Officer.
      (9)   Register of Deeds. Every plat shall bear a certificate of the
County Register of Deeds indicating the date and time of recording. This
certification shall also indicate the location of filing by plat book and page
number.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
Statutory reference:
Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 11-3-4, 11-3-6, 11-3-9, 11-3-10, and 11-6-26
§ 151.054 MINOR PLATS.
   The content of a minor plat shall be the same as that of a final plat.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.065 DESIGN AND INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   All required improvements shall be:
   (A)   Designed and constructed in accordance with the city’s Infrastructure
Design Criteria Manual and all other applicable city specifications;
   (B)   Installed per plans prepared by and under the construction
administration of the subdivider’s engineer. Said plans shall be approved by
the Public Works Official and/or the City Engineer before the commencement of
construction;
   (C)   Installed subject to inspection and approval by the Public Works
Official, Planning Official, and/or City Engineer;
   (D)   Subject to the requirement that any changes to the approved plans
shall be submitted as change orders by the subdivider’s engineer to the
Planning Official and approved by the Public Works Official and/or the City
Engineer before the commencement of construction;
   (E)   Certified by the subdivider’s engineer who shall provide one set of
stamped, as-built plans to the Planning Official within 30 days after the final
inspection and approval of the improvements by the Public Works Official and/or
City Engineer. Failure to submit said as-built plans in a timely manner shall
result in the denial of building permits and municipal utility connections
within the subdivision until the drawings are accepted by the Planning
Official; and
   (F)   Subject to a warranty against defective workmanship or materials by
the subdivider for a period of two years after the final inspection and
approval of the improvements by the Public Works Official and/or City Engineer.
The subdivider shall make all needed repairs to such improvements at the
direction, inspection, and approval of the Public Works Official and/or City
Engineer. The Public Works Official and/or city is hereby authorized to make
such repairs at the subdivider’s expense if, within ten days after the first
class mailing of a notice in writing to the subdivider, the subdivider neglects
to make, or undertake with due diligence to make, the directed repairs.
However, in the case of an emergency where, in the judgment of the Public Works
Official and/or City Engineer, delay would cause serious loss or damage,
repairs may be made immediately after the mailing of said notice and the
subdivider shall pay the cost of such repairs.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.066 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider is required to install or construct the following
improvements, or provide by appropriate surety for their construction or
installation, prior to the review of the final plat application by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (A)   (1)   All soil erosion and sediment control materials and facilities
as described in the approved soil erosion and sediment control plan.
      (2)   The subdivider is required to maintain these materials and
facilities in a workmanlike manner until all grading, filling, and trenching
has been completed and sufficient vegetation re-established to prevent further
soil erosion or until released from this requirement by the Public Works
Official.
   (B)   All water system mains, lines, and appurtenances described in the
approved water distribution plan. The subdivider is required to maintain this
system until the community water system accepts the public portions of this
system.
   (C)   All sanitary sewer system mains and appurtenances described in the
approved sanitary sewer plan. The subdivider is required to maintain this
system until the Board of Commissioners accepts the public portions of this
system.
   (D)   All stormwater management facilities and conveyances described in the
approved stormwater management plan. The subdivider is required to maintain
these facilities and conveyances until the Board of Commissioners accepts these
facilities and conveyances.
   (E)   All street lights and utility lines and mains described in the
approved utility distribution plan. The city shall assume responsibility for
the street lights upon approval of the installation by the Public Works
Official.
   (F)   All streets and streetscape features described in the approved street
plan. The subdivider is required to maintain the streets and features until the
Board of Commissioners accepts these streets and features or approves a street
maintenance plan for said streets.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.067 JOINT IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may participate in the cost of oversize improvements within
or serving a subdivision if the Board of Commissioners deems that the oversize
improvements are necessary to serve areas of land not in the subdivision.
   (B)   The city may participate in the cost of improvements within or serving
a subdivision if the Board of Commissioners deems that a collector street
within the subdivision is required to become an arterial street.
   (C)   (1)   City participation in the cost of joint improvements within or
serving a subdivision is subject to the availability of city funds.
      (2)   The city may negotiate with the subdivider to repay such
improvement costs through reimbursement from special assessments on new
development in the area served by the joint improvements.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.068 IMPROVEMENTS PROPOSED BY THE SUBDIVIDER.
   (A)   Any proposed improvements outside the boundaries of the proposed
subdivision that the subdivider requests the city to make shall be noted on the
preliminary plat.
   (B)   These improvements may relate to stormwater management, extension of
water or sanitary sewer mains, streets, or other improvements.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
VACATION OF PLATS, EASEMENTS, AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND SECTION LINE
HIGHWAYS
§ 151.080 VACATION OF PLATS.
   Any request for a vacation of plat shall follow the state statute
requirements per SDCL §§ 11-3-20.1 through 11-3-20.4, inclusive.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.081 VACATION OF EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Description. A vacation of easement is a process used to eliminate all
or a portion of an easement for drainage, access, non-access, planting screens,
or other purpose previously designated on a plat. The vacation requires the
approval of the Board of Commissioners including a vacation instrument showing
the easement to be vacated.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   The applicant shall meet with the Planning Official to discuss the
proposed vacation of easement and determine the type of vacation application(s)
that are required to be submitted. Generally, vacation of easement applications
can be classified into three categories.
         (a)   Vacation of utility easement. The applicant shall send out a
letter describing the vacation of easement request and a vacation instrument to
all applicable utility companies in order to determine the impact of the
proposed vacation on utilities. The utility companies shall be instructed
within the letter sent by the applicant to respond directly to the Planning
Official.
         (b)   Vacation of drainage easement. The applicant shall submit a
drainage report prepared by a licensed, professional engineer. The report shall
determine the impact of the proposed vacation on the existing and future
drainage. A site plan may be required.
         (c)   Vacation of access, non-access, planting screen or other
easement. An application for vacation of an access, non-access, planting
screen, or other easement shall be signed by all affected property owners
requesting the easement vacation.
      (2)   The authorization of the owner(s) of the property underlying the
easement to be vacated is required for all vacation of easement applications.
   (C)   Process. The applicant shall submit the required application,
applicable fees, vacation of easement instrument and other specified
information to the Planning Official. The vacation instrument shall be prepared
by a licensed professional land surveyor and marked “Exhibit A.” The vacation
instrument shall include the book and page number of the original document
dedicating the easement. Upon receipt of a complete application, the Planning
Official shall provide all information to the Planning Commission for review.
The Planning Commission shall review the application and forward a
recommendation to approve or deny the vacation of easement request to the Board
of Commissioners within 30 days of receipt of the application. The Board of
Commissioners, at its next regular meeting after the Planning Commission makes
its recommendation, shall review the vacation of easement application and the
Planning Commission’s recommendation and act upon said recommendation.
Following approval, the vacation of easement instrument shall be recorded at
the applicable county’s Register of Deeds.
   (D)   Approval criteria. The Planning Commission shall recommend and the
Board of Commissioners shall approve the vacation of easement provided the
request complies with the following approval criteria:
      (1)   The utility companies consent to the vacation of the easement, if
applicable;
      (2)   The City Engineer determines that the drainage is not adversely
affected, if applicable;
      (3)   The vacation of easement does not alter a recorded easement without
the prior approval of the easement holder; and
      (4)   The vacation of easement does not result in any adverse impacts to
the public as determined by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.082 VACATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND SECTION LINE HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Description. A vacation of public right-of-way or vacation of section
line highway is used to eliminate public rights-of-way that are no longer
needed for public improvements or access. The vacation requires the approval of
a resolution by the Board of Commissioners including a vacation instrument
showing the area to be vacated. For vacation of section line highways, this
section only applies to section line highways located within the incorporated
city limits.
   (B)   Application. The owner or the designated agent shall submit an
application which includes the legal description of the property for which the
vacation is requested and which is signed by the property owner, along with a
vacation instrument marked “Exhibit A” prepared by a licensed professional land
surveyor. The vacation instrument shall include the book and page number of the
original plat dedicating the public right-of-way, if applicable. A petition for
right-of-way vacation or vacation of section line highway must be signed by
property owners whose property adjoins that part of the street, alley, or
public ground to be vacated and the property owners’ signatures must be
notarized. The applicant shall send out utility letters and the vacation
instrument to all utility companies in order to determine the impact of the
proposed vacation on utilities. The utility companies are notified within the
letter that they are to reply directly to the Planning Official.
   (C)   Process. Upon receipt of a complete application, vacation instrument,
applicable fees, and responses from the utility companies, the Planning
Official shall prepare a resolution and provide all information to the Planning
Commission for review. The Planning Commission shall review the resolution and
forward a recommendation to approve or deny the vacation of public right-of-way
or section line request to the Board of Commissioners within 30 days of receipt
of the application. The resolution is then set for hearing at the following
Board of Commissioners meeting with formal action being taken at the next
regularly scheduled meeting (approximately 30 days after Planning Commission).
The vacation of public right-of-way or section line petition is a public
hearing requiring publication of legal notice once each week for at least two
successive weeks with the Board of Commissioners taking formal action on the
petition not less than ten days from expiration of such publication. Following
approval by the Board of Commissioners, the resolution and vacation instrument
shall be recorded at the appropriate county’s office of Register of Deeds.
   (D)   Approval criteria. The Planning Commission shall recommend and the
Board of Commissioners shall approve the vacation of public right-of-way or
section line provided the exhibit and supporting documents comply with the
following approval criteria.
      (1)   The vacation serves the interest of the city by removing
maintenance or liability risks.
      (2)   The property interest being vacated is no longer necessary for city
operations.
      (3)   The land to be vacated is no longer necessary for the public use
and convenience.
      (4)   The vacation will not create any landlocked properties.
      (5)   The vacation will not render access to any parcel unreasonable.
      (6)   The vacation will not reduce the quality of public services to any
parcel of land.
   (E)   Ownership and zoning of vacated land. As of the effective date of the
vacation, the land underlying the vacated right-of-way or section line shall be
divided equally and attached to the adjacent property, with ownership of the
vacated land being assumed by the adjacent property owner, and the zoning of
the land underlying the vacated right-of-way or section line shall be
designated to conform to the zoning of the land to which the vacated land
attaches without further action. When possible, the vacated land should be
replatted by the landowner receiving the vacated land in order to create a
larger usable piece of land.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter or any amendment thereto, or
failure to perform any act required hereunder, is a Class II misdemeanor. In
addition to any fine or penalty assessed by the court, any violator found
guilty shall pay all court costs and expenses involved in the case. Any
violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance per se.
(Ord. #115, passed 2-16-2017)
CHAPTER 152: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of 2018 International Building Code by reference
   
152.02   Adoption of 2018 International Property Maintenance Code by reference
   
152.03   Adoption of 2018 International Residential Code by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF 2018 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE BY REFERENCE.
   There is adopted by the city that certain code, recommended by the
International Code Council, known as the International Building Code, 2018
edition. The code is adopted for occupancies except single- and two-family
dwellings. A copy of the same is on file in the office of the city.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-17-2022)
§ 152.02 ADOPTION OF 2018 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE BY REFERENCE.
   There is adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations for
the practical safeguarding of persons and property from hazards arising from
housing, and for the removal of blighted structure in population areas, that
certain code recommended by the International Code Council known as the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 edition, specifically Chapters 1
through 8 thereof. A copy of the same is on file in the office of the city.
(Ord. 1.150.033IPMC, passed - -; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-17-2022)
§ 152.03 ADOPTION OF 2018 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE BY REFERENCE.
   There is adopted by the city that certain code recommended by the
International Code Council known as the International Residential Code for One-
and Two-Family Dwellings, 2018 edition, specifically Chapters 1-11, Chapter 44,
and Appendices E, H, J, and K thereof. The city also adopts Section P2904
Dwelling Unit Fire Sprinkler systems as amended within this code. The code is
adopted for one- and two-family dwellings only. A copy of the same is on file
in the city’s Finance Office.
(Ord. 150.031IRC, passed - -; Ord. 2022-04, passed 3-17-2022)
CHAPTER 153: LICENSING AND CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Scope and purpose
   
153.002   Definitions
   
153.003   Stair railings and grates
   
153.004   Permit to place building material on street
   
153.005   Removal of decaying or burned building
   
153.006   Use of concrete and other debris as fill on publicly dedicated
rights-of-way prohibited
   
153.007   Operation of vehicles with lugs, ice spurs, or similar
   
153.008   Operation of construction equipment or vehicle equipped with
outriggers
   
153.009   Appeal process
Building Code and Construction Standards
   
153.025   Adoption of Building Code
   
153.026   Authority of Building Inspector to prepare manual of construction
guidelines
   
153.027   Additions, alterations, and repairs
   
153.028   Maintenance
   
153.029   Historic preservation
   
153.030   Alternate materials and methods of construction
   
153.031   Modifications
   
153.032   Tests
Building Inspector and Building Permits
   
153.045   Establishment of the office of the Building Inspector
   
153.046   Authority of Planning Department and/or Building Inspector to enforce
   
153.047   Right of entry
   
153.048   Stop orders
   
153.049   Liability
   
153.050   Cooperation of officials and officers
   
153.051   Building permit required
   
153.052   Application for building permit
   
153.053   Fees
   
153.054   Building permit issued
   
153.055   Expiration of building permit
   
153.056   Building permit must be posted
   
153.057   Certificate of occupancy
   
153.058   Temporary structure permit required
   
153.059   Requirements for temporary structures
   
153.060   Exempt temporary structures
Construction Contractors
   
153.075   License required for construction
   
153.076   Application of chapter
   
153.077   Application for contractor’s license
   
153.078   Insurance and bond required for construction
   
153.079   Contractor’s license fee
   
153.080   Contractor’s license term and renewal
   
153.081   Required inspections
   
153.082   Notice and cost of inspections
Electrical Construction
   
153.095   License required for electrical construction
   
153.096   Application for electrical construction license
   
153.097   Electrical construction license term and renewal
   
153.098   Insurance and bond required for electrical construction
   
153.099   Electrical construction fees
   
153.100   Public liability not created
Plumbing Construction
   
153.115   License required for plumbing construction
   
153.116   Application for plumbing construction license
   
153.117   Plumbing construction license term and renewal
   
153.118   Insurance and bond required for plumbing construction
   
153.119   Plumbing construction license fees
Building and Structure Movers
   
153.130   License required for moving buildings or structures
   
153.131   Application for license
   
153.132   Bond and insurance required
   
153.133   Fee
   
153.134   Permit required before moving
   
153.135   New building or mobile home
Public Excavations
   
153.150   License required for excavators
   
153.151   Application for excavator’s construction license
   
153.152   Excavator’s license term and renewal
   
153.153   Insurance and bond required for excavation
   
153.154   Excavator’s license fee
   
153.155   Permit required before each excavation
   
153.156   Excavations near streets
   
153.157   Obstruction of sewer pipes, manholes, water mains, or appurtenances
   
153.158   Excavations must be refilled
   
153.159   Failure to comply
   
153.160   Non-applicable to utility companies
   
153.161   Barricades, guards, lights, and the like required
Revocation of Licenses
   
153.175   Authority to revoke license
   
153.176   Revocation process
Fences
   
153.190   Material requirements
   
153.191   Height, setback, and construction requirements
   
153.192   Permit required
   
153.193   Application for permit
   
153.194   Fee for permit
   
153.195   Unsafe or hazardous fences
Erosion Control
   
153.210   Purpose and application
   
153.211   Grading permit required
   
153.212   Application for grading permit
   
153.213   Exceptions to permit requirement
   
153.214   Fees
   
153.215   Grading permit issued
   
153.216   Expiration of grading permit
   
153.217   Best management practices applicable to all land disturbances
   
153.218   Erosion control plan (ECP) requirements
   
153.219   Final stabilization generally
   
153.220   Final stabilization for residential construction
   
153.221   Final stabilization for agricultural purposes
   
153.222   Additional requirements
   
153.223   Stop work order
 
   
153.999   Penalty
Editor’s Note:
   This chapter replaces the previous Title 2 and 26 in their entirety,
effective 8-18-07, Ordinance 2007-20
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the building of structures within
the city and to provide minimum standards to safeguard life or limb, health,
property, and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design,
construction, quality of materials, location and maintenance of all buildings,
streets, and sewer and water mains within the city. The purpose of this chapter
also includes setting forth the licensing requirements for certain contractors
and adopting certain uniform codes and regulations for guidance in the area of
construction.
§ 153.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SDAR. South Dakota Administrative Rules.
   ASSISTANT BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Assistant Building Inspector shall be any
person appointed to assist the Building Inspector with her or his duties as
provided by this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Control measures which reduce or prevent
the discharge of pollutants (defined at SDAR 74:52:01:35) to waters of the
state.
   BUILDING CODE. The specific Building Code, whether it be uniform or
international, adopted by the city.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector shall be any person appointed to
perform this duty as provided by this chapter.
   CLEARING. Any activity that causes the removal of the vegetative surface
cover.
   CODES. The current adopted addition of codes and ordinances adopted by the
state and the city.
   CONSTRUCTION. The act of construction including, but not limited to, the
rough framing, remodeling, shingling, siding, new construction, concrete,
alteration, addition, repair, or erection of buildings or structures, all
construction required to possess a permit within the city.
   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS. The city approves specifications for the
installation of streets, water, and sewer and storm sewer improvements within
the public right-of-way or established utility easements.
   CONTRACTOR. Any contractor appropriately licensed as required by the city’s
ordinances.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the city.
   ELECTRICIAN. Any person who is licensed by the state and the city to perform
electrical work which includes but is not limited to running conduit,
installing wiring, terminating wiring, and installing electrical fixtures or
motors.
   EROSION CONTROL PLAN (ECP). A plan prepared for a specific site which
dictates the specific measures and controls and their application sequence for
the control of sediment and erosion on the site.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. The return of a construction site to a finished
condition in which all final improvements and vegetation has been placed and
are functioning as planned in accordance with the stormwater pollution
prevention plan and erosion control plan submitted and approved for the site.
   FLAME RETARDANT OR FLAME RESISTANT TARP. A tarp that has a physical marking
or tag attached to it which shows that the tarp has been tested and declared
FLAME RESISTANT AND/OR FLAME RETARDANT. Tarps not bearing this physical
insignia shall not be acceptable.
   GENERAL RESIDENTIAL CONTRACTOR. Any person who oversees and/or participates
in the act of residential construction and/or excavation on property other than
that owned and occupied by her or him as her or his primary residence and who
is responsible for the final product.
   GRADING PERMIT. A permit issued by the city for construction, excavation,
grading, clearing, and any other land disturbing activity.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any activity that involves grading, clearing, or
the moving of topsoil, rock, or any other natural surface from a property.
   MUNICIPALITY. Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the Uniform Building
Code, it shall be held to mean this city.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, except
days that are nationally recognized as a holiday.
   PERIMETER CONTROLS. Erosion control measures that protect neighboring
properties from stormwater runoff and sedimentation.
   PERMANENT STRUCTURE. A structure which is established for 365 days a year
and in compliance with the Building Code for the occupancy which is utilizing
the structure.
   PERMANENT BARRIER. A wall or fence which has been constructed as a permanent
attachment to property and is a minimum of five feet in height and has openings
which are no longer that four inches in either direction.
   PERMANENT BUSINESS. A place of business which is in physical operation and
open to the public at one stationary location for a period of not less that 300
days a year and has a permanent state sales tax license for said location.
   PLUMBER. Any person who is licensed by the state and city to perform
plumbing work which includes but is not limited to gas piping, water and sewer
piping, installation of plumbing fixtures, including water heaters, and
reparation of piping or plumbing fixtures.
   RESIDENTIAL SUBCONTRACTOR. Any person who is engaged in the act of
residential construction and/or excavation under supervision of a general
contractor on property other than that owned and occupied by him or her as his
or her primary residence. If the SUBCONTRACTOR is not under supervision of a
general contractor, the SUBCONTRACTOR becomes the general contractor.
   SD DENR. South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
   STABILIZATION. The use of practice and methods that prevent exposed soils
from eroding including but not limited to grass, trees, sod, mulch, or other
materials which prevent erosion and assist the soil in the retention of
moisture.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan prepared for and
approved by the State DENR required to obtain a stormwater permit for
construction which disturbs more than one acre of land or industrial activities
having a Standard Industrial Code between 20 and 39.
   TEMPORARY BUSINESS. A place of business which is in physical operation and
open to the public at one or more location for a period not exceeding 30 days
and has a merchant’s license.
   TEMPORARY STORAGE BUILDINGS. Storage building not used for actual selling,
but for storage of goods and merchandise for retail or wholesale in conjunction
with a permanent retail or wholesale business.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. Any vending stand, reviewing stand, canopy tent,
awning, fence, or other miscellaneous structure which is intended for use on a
temporary basis.
   WATERCOURSE. Any body of water including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds,
streams, and other bodies of water delineated by the city.
   WATERWAY. A channel that directs surface runoff water to a watercourse or to
a public storm drain.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All waters within the jurisdiction of the state,
including all streams, lakes, ponds, impounding reservoirs, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage systems,
and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural
or artificial, public or private, situated wholly or partly within or bordering
upon the state, but not waste treatment systems, including treatment ponds,
lagoons, or treated water distribution systems designed to meet the
requirements of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. other than
cooling ponds as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 423.11(m) (July 1, 1991).
§ 153.003 STAIR RAILINGS AND GRATES.
   The owner of any building in the city that has a stairway leading from an
adjacent sidewalk to the cellar or basement of the building shall guard such
stairway with a substantial railing not less than three feet high. The entrance
to such stairway shall be at right angles to the street from which such entry
is made. Any person who has any permanent opening in any sidewalk for the
purpose of letting light into any basement or cellar or for any other purpose
shall guard the same with a substantial cover.
§ 153.004 PERMIT TO PLACE BUILDING MATERIAL ON STREET.
   No person shall deposit and keep lumber, stone, brick, or other materials
for building in any public street, road, or alley without a permit. Any person
desiring to do the above mentioned shall make written application to the Public
Works Department. The Public Works Department shall have the power to issue a
permit granting the permit holder the authority to keep lumber, stone, brick,
or other materials for building in the requested public area for a period not
to exceed six months. The issuing of a permit shall also be subject to such
other conditions or limitations as the Public Works Department may deem
necessary under the circumstances. Before issuing any permit, the Public Works
Department shall take into consideration the free flow of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, the proper drainage of water, and the safety of persons and
property.
§ 153.005 REMOVAL OF DECAYING OR BURNED BUILDING.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, any building within the
city shall have been damaged by fire, building collapse, decay, or otherwise,
to the extent of 50% of the value thereof, it shall be the duty of the Building
Inspector to report the same in writing to the Board of Commissioners. The
report shall be in writing and include a description of the building, its
location, and the name of the owner, if known. The Finance Officer shall issue
a notice to be served upon the owner if within the state, or in case of his or
her absence from the state, upon his or her agent if there be one, requiring
said owner to appear before the Board of Commissioners and show cause why said
building should not be torn down or removed. The owner shall be given at least
ten days’ notice of the Board of Commissioners meeting. In case the owner
cannot be found within the state, and there is no agent present, then said
notice shall be published in the official city newspaper once each week for
four successive weekly issues of such newspaper. Upon completion of such
publication and due proof thereof, placed on file with the Finance Officer,
service of said notice shall be deemed valid and complete.
§ 153.006 USE OF CONCRETE AND OTHER DEBRIS AS FILL ON PUBLICLY DEDICATED
RIGHTS-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall use concrete, asphalt, wood, tree limbs, or other solid
debris as fill in on publicly dedicated rights-of-way, streets, or alleys
within the city.
§ 153.007 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH LUGS, ICE SPURS, OR SIMILAR.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway, street, or
alley within the city shall have a rubber on its entire traction surface at
least one inch thick above the edge of the flange on the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on any vehicle moved on any highway, street, or alley within
the city shall have on its periphery any block, stud, ice spur, flange, cleat,
spike, or any other protuberance of any material other than rubber which
projects beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (C)   It shall be permissible, however, to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when necessary for safety because of snow, ice, or
other conditions.
§ 153.008 OPERATION OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT OR VEHICLE EQUIPPED WITH
OUTRIGGERS.
   (A)   All construction equipment or vehicles equipped with outriggers being
used for construction purposes on the bituminous or concrete surface streets
and alleys of the city shall have rubber padded or flat metal surface thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to use construction equipment or vehicles
equipped with outriggers having metal studs, lugs, or an equivalent hard
material upon the bituminous or concrete surfaced streets or alleys of the
city.
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.009 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision made by the Building Inspector,
City Engineer, or other department head under this chapter shall be entitled to
have said decision reviewed by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The process shall be as follows.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Inspector, City
Engineer, or other department head under this chapter may file a notice of
appeal with the Finance Officer. There shall be a $100 fee assessed for filing
an appeal, which shall be paid to the Finance Office at the time of filing the
notice of appeal.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Finance Officer shall
notify the Board of Commissioners and a public meeting shall be held within 30
days after the date said appeal was filed. The Board of Commissioners shall
provide notice to the person specifying the time, date, and location of the
hearing.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners may notify the aggrieved person of its
decision following the hearing; however, the Board of Commissioners shall issue
a written decision to the person within 20 days of the hearing. The Board of
Commissioners may affirm or reverse the decision of the Building Inspector.
BUILDING CODE AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 153.025 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   The city hereby adopts, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use, and occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings and structures,
including permits and penalties, 2018 International Residential Building Code
and the 2018 International Building Code, except such portions as are herein
deleted, modified, or amended. One copy of each of the codes with all the
amendments has been filed with the city’s Finance Office and the same are
hereby adopted and incorporated fully as if set out at length herein, and from
the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall
be controlling in the construction of all buildings and structures therein
contained within the city.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-17-2022)
§ 153.026 AUTHORITY OF BUILDING INSPECTOR TO PREPARE MANUAL OF CONSTRUCTION
GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be authorized to prepare and compile a
manual containing guidelines for compliance with this chapter and the Building
Codes adopted herein.
   (B)   One copy of said manual shall be available for review at the Building
Inspection Office.
   (C)   Copies of the manual shall be available at the cost of the person
requesting said copy.
§ 153.027 ADDITIONS, ALTERATIONS, AND REPAIRS.
   Any additions, alterations, and/or repairs to an existing nonconforming
building, street, and/or utilities may be made without requiring the existing
building, street, or city utilities to meet the provisions of this chapter,
provided that any addition, alteration, or repair conforms to the provisions in
the manual for new construction and does not make the existing installation
unsafe.
§ 153.028 MAINTENANCE.
   Any building, street, and/or city utilities shall be maintained in a safe
and sanitary condition. All devices or safeguards required by this chapter or
any other state law or city ordinance shall be maintained in conformance with
this chapter and/or the law or ordinance under which they where installed.
§ 153.029 HISTORIC PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Any repairs, alteration, and additions necessary for preservation or
continued use may be made without conformance to the requirements of this
chapter with authorization from the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Board of Commissioners authorization is conditional upon the
following:
      (1)   Completion of all requirements of SDCL § 1-19A-11.1;
      (2)   The building or area having been designated by action of the
legally constituted authority of the jurisdiction as having special historical
or architectural significance;
      (3)   Any unsafe conditions are corrected; and
      (4)   The restored building or area will not be more hazardous, based on
life, safety, fire safety, and sanitation regulations, than the existing
construction.
§ 153.030 ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to prevent the use of other
materials or methods of construction not specifically prescribed by this
chapter, provided any alternate has been approved and its use authorized by the
Building Inspector. The city may require sufficient evidence or proof be
submitted to substantiate any claims that may be made regarding its use. All
alternate materials or methods of construction must meet or exceed the
requirements of this chapter or the applicable codes adopted by the city and
the state.
§ 153.031 MODIFICATIONS.
   When there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the
provisions of this chapter, the city may grant modifications for individual
cases upon receipt of a written request and after a proper review has been
completed by the Engineering and Inspections Office with review and
recommendations from the Public Works Committee and any other committee or
department of the city as directed by the Board of Commissioners.
§ 153.032 TESTS.
   Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with any provision of
this chapter or any evidence that material or construction does not conform to
the requirements of this chapter or to industry standards, the city may require
tests as proof of compliance to be made at the expense of the property owner
and at no expense to the city. All tests shall be made by an approved agency
and all reports shall become property of the city.
BUILDING INSPECTOR AND BUILDING PERMITS
§ 153.045 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   There shall be designated by the Board of Commissioners a Building Inspector
who shall perform those duties and hold such authority as herein set forth. The
Board of Commissioners may designate any number of assistant Building
Inspectors that the Board of Commissioners may deem necessary to carry out the
duties of the Office of Building Inspection. The person designated as the City
Engineer shall automatically be designated as an assistant Building Inspector.
By way of this subchapter, the Planning Department of the City of Summerset
shall also have the authority to act pursuant to the terms of this chapter and
to enforce the same.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-19-2024)
§ 153.046 AUTHORITY OF PLANNING DEPARTMENT AND/OR BUILDING INSPECTOR TO
ENFORCE.
   (A)   The Planning Department and/or the Building Inspector shall enforce
all provisions of this chapter. The Building Inspector may request that the
Board of Commissioners appoint and deputize any number of technical officers,
deputy inspectors, and other employees as is necessary to assist the Building
Inspector with enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Planning Department and/or the Building Inspector shall enforce
all laws relating to the construction, alteration, removal, and demolition of
all buildings and structures within the city.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall make an examination of any and all plans
and specifications for structures to be built within the city or alterations to
be made in or upon any existing structures which will materially change said
structures, in order to determine if said plans, specifications, or alterations
are in conformance with this chapter.
   (D)   The Building Inspector shall make an examination of all applications
for building permits and shall determine after said examination whether or not
a permit should be granted to such applicant.
   (E)   The Planning Department shall have the authority to issue building
permits after the completed application has been determined in accordance with
this chapter and after all required fees have been received. Building permits
may be signed by any member of the Planning Department or its designee, or by
the Mayor of the City of Summerset. The Board of Commissioners may from time to
time by resolution authorize other Planning Department or city staff to sign
building permits as it may deem necessary and practical for the purposes of
this chapter.
   (F)   The Planning Department shall have the authority to deny issuance of
any permit. Said denial may be based upon failure to comply with any applicable
provision of this chapter, any city ordinance, state law, federal law, or
provision of any applicable building code or manual or based upon the general
safety and/or welfare of the public.
   (G)   The Building Inspector shall have the authority to order the removal
of any existing building or structure which was unlawfully built or which in
the opinion of the Building Inspector is dangerous and/or a safety hazard to
the public.
   (H)   The Building Inspector shall have the authority to require specific
testing and inspections in connection with the performance of construction work
within the city and to set forth specific testing and inspection requirements
within the Manual of Construction Guidelines prepared pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-19-2024)
§ 153.047 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall have the authority to enter upon property
in the event it is necessary to make an inspection and/or to enforce the
provisions of this chapter or when the Building Inspector or other official of
the city has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a building or
upon a premises a condition which is contrary to or in violation of this
chapter or code of ordinances which makes the building or premises unsafe,
dangerous, or hazardous.
   (B)   (1)   In exercising the aforementioned authority, the Building
Inspector shall take all reasonable steps possible to do the following:
         (a)   Enter the building or premises at a reasonable hour;
         (b)   In the event the premises is occupied, present his or her
credentials to the occupant and request entry; and
         (c)   In the event the premises is unoccupied, make reasonable effort
to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the building or
premises, if known, and request entry.
      (2)   In the event that entry is refused, the Building Inspector shall
proceed with any and all recourse and remedies provided by law to secure entry.
§ 153.048 STOP ORDERS.
   (A)   In the event any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, or other pertinent laws or ordinances implemented through the
enforcement of this chapter, the Planning Department may order the work stopped
by notice in writing served on any persons involved in performing the work.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the written notice, any persons shall immediately stop
such work until the Planning Department authorizes the work to continue.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-19-2024)
§ 153.049 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector and Planning Department and its members and any
other city staff charged with the enforcement of this chapter, shall act in
good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by this
chapter or other applicable law or ordinance and shall not thereby be rendered
personally liable for damages that may occur to persons or property as result
of an act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of such duties.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating, or controlling any building,
premises, or contracting on city land for damages to persons or property caused
by defects, nor shall the Building Inspector or the Planning Department or the
city or any of its staff be held as assuming any such liability by reason of
the inspections authorized by this chapter or any permits or certificates
issued under this manual.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-19-2024)
§ 153.050 COOPERATION OF OFFICIALS AND OFFICERS.
   The Building Inspector may request, and shall receive, the assistance and
cooperation of other officials of the city so far as it is required for
discharge of the duties required by this chapter or other applicable laws or
ordinances.
§ 153.051 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any person may erect or cause to be erected or constructed a building
or structure within the city or causes any alterations to any existing building
or structure within the city, he or she must first obtain a building permit
from the Planning Department in accordance with the terms of this chapter. An
alteration of a building or structure shall for the purpose of this chapter
mean any alteration, addition, or removal of any one, part of one, or more than
one partition, wall, ceiling, windows, structural member of roof system, or
floor.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-19-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 2-20-2025)
§ 153.052 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   To obtain a building permit from the city, the applicant must make
application to the Planning Department office in duplicate on forms to be
furnished by the city.
   (B)   He or she shall include with said application the following
information:
      (1)   A sketch or drawing of the outside wall of the floor of said
improvement to be built, drawn at scale of at least one-quarter of an inch to
one inch showing all measurements, the distance from property lines, distance
from buildings or structures on the same parcel of land, and distance from back
of curb or from edge of streets;
      (2)   The name of the owner of the real property to be improved;
      (3)   The name of the contractor, if any, doing the work;
      (4)   The legal description of the property being improved;
      (5)   The parcel number given to the property by the county;
      (6)   The general description of the improvement and what type of
building improvement is to be made;
      (7)   Plans for the installation of plumbing, electrical wiring, and the
like;
      (8)   Such other information the Planning Department may request so that
he or she may determine if said improvement complies with the city's ordinances
and the state's laws; and
      (9)   All commercial building permit applications will require an
engineer-stamped building and site plan regardless of building square footage.
(Ord. passed 9-19-2019; Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-19-2024)
§ 153.053 FEES.
   (A)   Upon making application for a building permit, any applicant shall pay
the appropriate permit fee to the city.
   (B)   If, for any reason beyond the applicant's control, she, he, or it does
not construct the proposed project for which the permit was issued, the amount
of the permit less a $50 administrative fee shall be refunded to the applicant.
   (C)   The amount of an applicant's permit fee shall be determined by
reference to the following schedule. All such fees shall be paid to the city to
be deposited into the general fund of the city.
   (D)   Refer to the fee schedule adopted by resolution. The Board of
Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to time by
resolution.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-19-2024)
§ 153.054 BUILDING PERMIT ISSUED.
   (A)   The Planning Department, upon receiving said application and fee,
shall examine the same. If the application is completed, the proper fee is
paid, and the improvement conforms to the ordinances and laws of this city, she
or he shall issue a building permit to the applicant, which shall entitle the
applicant to proceed with the improvement.
   (B)   If the Planning Department, upon examination of the application, finds
that the application is not complete, or other information is necessary before
a decision can be rendered thereon, the Building Inspector may request the
additional information from the applicant without the necessity of obtaining a
new application or fee.
   (C)   If the Planning Department finds that the improvement applied for does
not conform to the city's ordinances or the state's laws, he or she shall
reject the application by noting that fact upon the application and returning
one copy of the application to the applicant. The other copy of the application
shall be retained in the files of the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-19-2024)
§ 153.055 EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any building permit issued prior to the effective date of this chapter
shall expire within one year following the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Any building permit issued under this chapter for building of a
residence shall expire one year (365 days) from the date of issue. Any building
permit issued under this chapter for the purpose of constructing any commercial
building shall expire two years (730 days) from the date of issuance. No
building shall be done under authority of any expired building permit. If the
improvement is not completed on the expiration date, a further application for
a building permit to complete such structure may be made under the same
procedure set forth herein for obtaining the original building permit.
§ 153.056 BUILDING PERMIT MUST BE POSTED.
   A building permit which has been lawfully issued shall be posted in a
conspicuous place upon the premises at all times from the beginning until the
completion of such construction, alteration, or repair. No person shall do any
building in the city without the building permit posted as required.
§ 153.057 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Before an owner may cause a newly constructed building to be occupied, or
has a change of occupancy as defined in the Building Code, he or she shall
first obtain a certificate of occupancy from the Planning Department. The
Planning Department shall issue an occupancy certificate upon completion of the
building or prior to change of occupancy if the building is found to be in
compliance with the city's ordinances and state's laws. No person shall permit
a structure to be occupied without first obtaining an occupancy certificate as
provided herein.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-19-2024)
§ 153.058 TEMPORARY STRUCTURE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Temporary structures, such as vending stands, reviewing stands,
canopies, tents, awnings, fences, and miscellaneous structures may be erected
in areas zoned highway service and general commercial, provided that a special
temporary structure permit is obtained for each temporary structure. Said
permit shall be issued by the Building Inspector or his or her designee for a
period not to exceed 30 days per location. This 30-day time frame shall include
set up and tear down time.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, LOCATION shall be the site on which
the temporary structure is first constructed or placed. A temporary structure
may not be disassembled and reconstructed or moved to a different location on
the same property or parcel of land, or an adjacent parcel of land, after an
initial permit is issued for the structure.
   (C)   A temporary structure which is used for the purpose of a temporary
office during a construction project or realty office in a new development
shall be exempt from the following requirements. Also exempt from this section
are temporary storage buildings used in conjunction with a permanent retail or
wholesale business, provided that said structure meets the setback requirements
for the zoning district in which it is placed. Also exempt are businesses which
rent temporary storage buildings at one location to the general public.
§ 153.059 REQUIREMENTS FOR TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   The following requirements shall apply to all temporary structures, except
those specifically exempted above.
   (A)   The structural frame of all temporary structures shall be made of
steel, aluminum, PVC, or wood. If constructed of wood, the smallest wood member
shall not be less than two inches by four inches in width.
      (1)   Wood used for the interior and exterior skins of a temporary
structure may be as follows: one-half inch of plywood, one-half inch chipboard,
or particleboard.
      (2)   Wood, as defined above, may also be used for shelving temporary
structure.
      (3)   Tarps which are utilized on temporary structures occupied by
temporary merchants shall be flame retardant or flame resistant as defined in
this chapter. All tarps not complying with this chapter shall be removed.
   (B)   All temporary structures shall be removed upon expiration of the time
limit stated on the permit.
   (C)   If the structure is not removed by the expiration date stated on the
permit, the city shall remove the structure without further notice to the owner
and shall charge the cost of the removal to the owner. At the time the permit
is issued, the Planning Department or its designee shall provide the owner with
a copy of the ordinance codified herein. The owner or occupant of the temporary
structure shall sign the permit, which will serve as an acceptance of service
and which will constitute sufficient notice that the structure is not to be
placed for more than 30 days. The city may bring action in magistrate or
circuit court for the recovery of costs incurred for the removal of said
structure or structures.
   (D)   In the event that a structure erected pursuant to this section is not
removed by the expiration date and the city is forced to make repeated contacts
with the owner of the property upon which the structure is erected or the
individual who applied for the permit, the Building Inspector shall not issue
subsequent permits under this section to the owner of the property for the
location unless the Building Inspector has reached an agreement with the owner
of the property to assure the owner's future compliance with any temporary
structures erected at that location.
   (E)   Temporary structures or appendages thereof shall not be placed closer
than five feet to any public alley. (Exception: When the property owner
provides a permanent barrier which is a minimum height of five feet between the
temporary structure and the public right-of-way, the temporary structure may be
placed closer than five feet to the public right-of-way. No sales may be
permitted through the permanent barrier.)
   (F)   The permit herein before described may be suspended or revoked if at
any time the structure or its occupants are in violation of the city's
ordinances or the state's laws.
   (G)   Temporary structures may not be used for housing permanent or seasonal
businesses.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 9-19-2024)
§ 153.060 EXEMPT TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   The following temporary structures shall be exempt from the requirements set
forth in the §
153.059:
   (A)   A temporary structure being used for the purpose of a temporary office
during a construction project;
   (B)   A temporary structure being used for the purpose of a realty office in
a new development;
   (C)   Temporary storage buildings used in conjunction with a permanent
retail or wholesale business, provided that said structures meet the setback
requirements for the zoning district in which they are placed; and
   (D)   Temporary storage buildings owned by a business that rents them at one
location to the general public.
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS
§ 153.075 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   No person shall perform construction work within the city on any property
other than the person’s primary residence until he or she shall obtain a
contractor’s license from the Building Inspector’s office.
§ 153.076 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   For purposes of this chapter, CONSTRUCTION WORK shall not include electrical
work, plumbing work, or work completed by a person on a residential structure
owned and occupied by said person as her or his primary residence.
§ 153.077 APPLICATION FOR CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE.
   (A)   To obtain a license from the Building Inspector, the applicant must
make application to the inspection office in duplicate on forms to be furnished
by the city. All requested information must be included and any incomplete
application will not be processed and the license shall not be issued.
   (B)   Said application shall contain or be accompanied by the following
information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, and phone number;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the company in whose name
the application is being made, if different than set forth above;
      (3)   Proof of any state licenses held by the applicant;
      (4)   The applicant’s state excise tax number;
      (5)   Proof of required insurance;
      (6)   Payment of applicable fee; and
      (7)   Verification of any state-required bond.
§ 153.078 INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to be licensed as a contractor shall be required
to produce a certificate of insurance stating that the applicant has
manufactures contractors liability insurance, including products and completed
operations and property damage insurance, in the amount not less than
$1,000,000.
   (B)   In addition, before the issuance of the license, the applicant shall
be required to comply with and prove such compliance with any bond requirements
of the state.
   (C)   The insurance and bond requirements set forth in this section shall be
maintained during the term of the license. Failure to maintain either the
insurance or the requisite bond may result in suspension or revocation of any
license issued.
§ 153.079 CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE FEE.
    Upon making application for a contractor’s license, said applicant shall
pay a fee. Each year the application will need to be renewed annually and
accompanied by the annual renewal fee. Refer to fee schedule adopted by
resolution. The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein
from time to time by resolution.
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 153.080 CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE TERM AND RENEWAL.
   Any license issued shall be valid for the calendar year and shall expire at
midnight on December 31. Any license may be renewed by the Building Inspector
prior to its expiration upon proof of compliance with all applicable sections
of this chapter. If a person renews his or her license prior to its expiration
on December 31, said license shall be valid for the subsequent calendar year.
Any person completing work under an expired license shall be considered to be
unlicensed in violation of this chapter.
§ 153.081 REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Due to the fact that inspections vary depending on whether the project
is or includes a structure, street, sewer, water, and the like, contractors
shall be required to contact the Engineering and Inspections Office to acquire
a list of required inspections for each individual project.
   (B)   In the event any contractor fails to call for an inspection, the
project may be stopped until an inspection can be made.
   (C)   The specific inspections required for each project shall be determined
by the Engineering and Inspections Office. The Engineering and Inspections
Office should include guidelines with the Manual of Construction Guidelines
addressing the type of inspections needed for certain projects; however, the
Engineering and Inspections Office shall maintain the discretion and authority
to require any necessary testing and/or inspections depending on any individual
project.
§ 153.082 NOTICE AND COST OF INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   A minimum of 24-hours’ notice shall be given prior to any required
inspection.
   (B)   The cost for an inspection shall be as set forth in the schedule of
inspection fees referred to in the fee schedule adopted by resolution. The
Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to
time by resolution.
   (C)   All inspection fees shall be collected by the Building Inspection
Office and remitted to the city’s Finance Office.
ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION
§ 153.095 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Before any person, including an apprentice electrician, Class B
electrician, journeyman electrician, and/or electrical contractor may engage in
the business of installing any electrical wiring or constructing or installing
electrical apparatus or machinery in any structure or upon any premises other
than the person’s primary residence, within the limits of the city, he or she
must be licensed under the laws of the state and shall obtain a license from
the Building Inspector as set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued in the name of the individual or the firm,
and it shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the place of business of the
licensee.
§ 153.096 APPLICATION FOR ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION LICENSE.
   (A)   To obtain a license from the Building Inspector, the applicant must
make application to the inspection office in duplicate on forms to be furnished
by the city. All requested information must be included and any incomplete
application will not be processed and the license shall not be issued.
   (B)   Said application shall include or be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Proof that applicant is licensed under the state’s laws;
      (2)   The applicant’s state excise tax number;
      (3)   Proof of any insurance or undertaking required by the state;
      (4)   The applicant’s name, address, and phone number;
      (5)   Payment of applicable fee; and
      (6)   The name, address, and phone number of the applicant’s contact
person.
§ 153.097 ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION LICENSE TERM AND RENEWAL.
   Any license issued shall be valid for the calendar year and shall expire at
midnight on December 31. Any license may be renewed by the Building Inspector
prior to its expiration upon proof of compliance with all applicable sections
of this chapter. If a person renews his or her license prior to its expiration
on December 31, said license shall be valid for the subsequent calendar year.
Any person completing work under an expired license shall be considered to be
unlicensed in violation of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.098 INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIRED FOR ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain an electrical construction license shall
be required to produce a certificate of insurance stating that the applicant
has liability insurance in an amount not less than required by applicable state
law. In addition, before the issuance of any license, the applicant shall be
required to comply with and prove such compliance with any bond requirements of
the Building Code as adopted by the city.
   (B)   The insurance and bond requirements set forth in this section shall be
maintained during the term of the license. Failure to maintain either the
insurance or the requisite bond may result in suspension or revocation of any
license issued.
§ 153.099 ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION FEES.
   (A)   Upon making application for an electrical construction license, said
applicant shall pay the applicable fee as set forth in the fee schedule adopted
by resolution. The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth
herein from time to time by resolution.
   (B)   Any electrical contractor that fails to renew his or her license prior
to December 31 of each year will be charged a $25 reinstatement fee.
§ 153.100 PUBLIC LIABILITY NOT CREATED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to relieve from or reduce the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling,
installing, altering, or repairing any electrical system or equipment for
damages or injuries to persons or property nor shall the city be held as
assuming any liability by reason of any of the sections of this chapter.
PLUMBING CONSTRUCTION
§ 153.115 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR PLUMBING CONSTRUCTION.
   No person shall perform plumbing construction work within the limits of the
city on any property other than the person’s primary residence until he or she
is licensed by the state to perform such work as described in the state’s
plumbing laws, which may be obtained from the State Plumbing Commission, 216
East Capital Street, Pierre, South Dakota 57501 and obtains a plumbing
construction license from the Building Inspector’s office.
§ 153.116 APPLICATION FOR PLUMBING CONSTRUCTION LICENSE.
   (A)   To obtain a license from the Building Inspector, the applicant must
make application to the inspection office in duplicate on forms to be furnished
by the city. All requested information must be included and any incomplete
application will not be processed and the license shall not be issued.
   (B)   Said application shall include or be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Proof that applicant is licensed under the state’s laws;
      (2)   The applicant’s state excise tax number;
      (3)   Proof of any insurance or undertaking required by the state;
      (4)   The applicant’s name, address, and phone number;
      (5)   Payment of applicable fee; and
      (6)   The name, address, and phone number of the applicant’s contact
person.
§ 153.117 PLUMBING CONSTRUCTION LICENSE TERM AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Any license issued shall be valid for the calendar year and shall
expire at midnight on December 31. Any license may be renewed by the Building
Inspector prior to its expiration upon proof of compliance with all applicable
sections of this chapter.
   (B)   If a person renews his or her license prior to its expiration on
December 31, said license shall be valid for the subsequent calendar year.
   (C)   Any person completing work under an expired license shall be
considered to be unlicensed in violation of this chapter.
§ 153.118 INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIRED FOR PLUMBING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain a plumbing construction license shall be
required to produce a certificate of insurance stating that the applicant has
liability insurance, including products and completed operations and property
damage insurance in an amount not less than that required by any applicable
state statutes or administrative rules and regulations established by the State
Plumbing Commission or in the event that no such applicable regulations and/or
statutes exist in an amount not less than $50,000 for damages caused by injury
to one person, not less than $100,000 for damages caused by injury to more than
one person in one accident, and not less than $50,000 for property damage.
   (B)   In addition, before the insurance of the license, the applicant shall
be required to comply with and prove such compliance with any bond requirements
of the applicable Building Code adopted by the city.
   (C)   The insurance and bond requirements set forth in this section shall be
maintained during the term of the license. Failure to maintain either the
insurance or the requisite bond may result in suspension or revocation of any
license issued.
§ 153.119 PLUMBING CONSTRUCTION LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Upon making application for a plumbing construction license, said
applicant shall pay the applicable fee as set forth in the fee schedule adopted
by resolution. The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth
herein from time to time by resolution.
   (B)   Any plumbing contractor that fails to renew her or his license prior
to December 31 of each year will be charged a $25 reinstatement fee.
BUILDING AND STRUCTURE MOVERS
§ 153.130 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR MOVING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person except a licensed building and structure mover shall move a
building or structure into or within the city, and every person shall annually,
before engaging in such occupation, obtain a license therefor pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   A BUILDING or STRUCTURE, for the purposes of this subchapter, shall be
defined to be any structure for which a building permit is required to be
obtained before placement within the city.
§ 153.131 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person requesting to be licensed as a building and structure
mover shall make written application therefor to the Building Inspector.
      (2)   Said application shall include or be accompanied by the following
information:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   Payment of applicable fee;
         (c)   Verification of required insurance coverage; and
         (d)   Required bond.
   (B)   Any license issued under this subchapter shall be effective for a
period of one year from the date of issuance.
§ 153.132 BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person requesting to be licensed as a building and structure mover
shall provide the city with a bond to be approved by the city’s Finance Officer
in the sum of $10,000. Said bond shall be conditioned that the applicant of a
license if granted will, in carrying on the business of moving buildings and
structures in said city, conform to all requirements relating thereto, which
are now, or may be hereafter established by the city; that he or she will
promptly repair and make good to the satisfaction of the city any and all
damage to any pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk, hydrant, street, alley, or other
property done or caused by himself or herself, or his or her servants or
employees, in moving any building or structure or in connection with the moving
thereof; and that he or she will immediately indemnify and save harmless the
city against any and all liability for damages, costs, or expenses, arising, or
which arise, in favor of any person by reason of any negligence on his or her
part or on account of his or her servants or employees in connection with the
moving of any building or structure or the use of any public street or ground
for that purpose.
   (B)   Any bond submitted to the city in compliance with this section shall
be held by the city for the one-year effective period of the license or, in the
case of a revocation of any license by the city, until the date of revocation.
In addition to the required bond, any person desiring to be licensed as a
building and structure mover shall be required to have a liability insurance
policy with coverage of at least $1,000,000.
§ 153.133 FEE.
   Upon making application for or upon renewal of a license as a building and
structure mover, any applicant shall pay a fee of $125.
§ 153.134 PERMIT REQUIRED BEFORE MOVING.
   (A)   (1)   Before the owner of any building or structure shall be
authorized to have a building or structure moved within the city by a licensed
building and structure mover, he or she shall obtain a permit.
      (2)   Said owner shall make written application to the Building
Inspector’s office and said application shall include or be accompanied by the
following information:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the owner;
         (b)   Name, address, and phone number of the licensed building and
structure mover;
         (c)   A description of the route to be taken in so moving the building
or structure;
         (d)   The date and time of the proposed move; and
         (e)   The length of time the move is expected to take.
   (B)   In determining whether or not to grant the permit, the Building
Inspector shall take into consideration any applicable section of this chapter
relating to planning and zoning and whether the building or structure proposed
to be moved is in compliance with the standards set forth in this chapter or
the Building Code.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall also take into consideration the proposed
route and whether or not said route is the most convenient route to be taken
for the proposed move.
§ 153.135 NEW BUILDING OR MOBILE HOME.
   (A)   Any owner of a new building or structure for which a building permit
has been issued by the Building Inspector shall be required to obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter before said new building or structure may be moved
into the city.
   (B)   Any owner of a mobile home for which a building permit has been issued
by the Building Inspector, shall be required to obtain a permit pursuant to
this chapter before the mobile home may be moved into the city.
PUBLIC EXCAVATIONS
§ 153.150 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EXCAVATORS.
   No person shall perform any excavation upon publicly owned property within
the limits of the city, until he or she is licensed by the city to perform such
work through the Building Inspection Office.
§ 153.151 APPLICATION FOR EXCAVATOR’S CONSTRUCTION LICENSE.
   (A)   To obtain a license from the Building Inspector, the applicant must
make application to the inspection office in duplicate on forms to be furnished
by the city. All requested information must be included and any incomplete
application will not be processed and the license shall not be issued.
   (B)   Said application shall include or be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   The applicant’s state excise tax number;
      (2)   Proof of required insurance and bond;
      (3)   The applicant’s name, address, and phone number;
      (4)   Payment of applicable fee; and
      (5)   The name, address, and phone number of the applicant’s contact
person.
§ 153.152 EXCAVATOR’S LICENSE TERM AND RENEWAL.
   Any license issued shall be valid for the calendar year and shall expire at
midnight on December 31. Any license may be renewed by the Building Inspector
prior to its expiration upon proof of compliance with all applicable sections
of this chapter. If a person renews his or her license prior to its expiration
on December 31, said license shall be valid for the subsequent calendar year.
Any person completing work under an expired license shall be considered to be
unlicensed in violation of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.153 INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIRED FOR EXCAVATION.
   (A)   (1)   Before any license may be issued to any applicant, there shall
be posted by the applicant a good and sufficient bond to be approved by the
City Finance Officer in the sum of $10,000.
      (2)   The bond shall be conditioned that such applicant shall fulfill all
obligations set forth within this chapter.
      (3)   Only one bond is necessary for any number of authorized excavations
as long as the bond is in full force and effect.
   (B)   The applicant shall also furnish a certificate of insurance showing
that the applicant has in force manufacturer’s and contractors liability
insurance, including products and completed operations, compaction and damage
to property insurance; in amounts not less than $100,000 for damages caused by
injury to one person, not less than $300,000 for damage caused by injury to
more than one person in one accident.
§ 153.154 EXCAVATOR’S LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Upon making application for an excavator’s construction license, said
applicant shall pay the applicable fee as set forth in the fee schedule adopted
by resolution. The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth
herein from time to time by resolution.
   (B)   Any excavator that fails to renew her or his license prior to December
31 of each year will be charged a $25 reinstatement fee.
§ 153.155 PERMIT REQUIRED BEFORE EACH EXCAVATION.
   (A)   (1)   Before any licensed excavator may perform any excavation upon
public property, said licensor shall make written application to the Building
Inspector’s office for an excavation permit.
      (2)   Said application shall include or be accompanied by the following
information:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant/licensed
excavator;
         (b)   Name, address, and phone number of the owner of the property
upon which the excavation is to be completed;
         (c)   The location of the desired excavation, including a list of the
lots located in front of the desired location;
         (d)   The purpose for which the excavation is being made;
         (e)   The date and time of the proposed excavation; and
         (f)   The length of time the excavation is expected to take.
   (B)   In determining whether or not to grant the permit, the Building
Inspector shall take into consideration any applicable section of this chapter
and whether the proposed excavation is in compliance with the standards set
forth in this chapter or the Building Code.
§ 153.156 EXCAVATIONS NEAR STREETS.
   No person shall make or cause to be made any excavation of any lot or parcel
of land without first assuring that the land is securely guarded so as to
prevent the injury of any persons or animals passing upon or along the
sidewalks, streets, alleys, public grounds, traveled path, or roadway.
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.157 OBSTRUCTION OF SEWER PIPES, MANHOLES, WATER MAINS, OR APPURTENANCES.
   No sewer pipes, manholes, water mains, or appurtenances thereto belonging to
the city or any water company serving the city, constituting a part of the
sewer system, shall be damaged in the process of making an excavation. If
damage of any kind occurs during excavation, the person to whom the permit was
issued shall compensate the city or the water company serving the city, for the
damage, including but not limited to compensation for the cost of any necessary
repairs.
§ 153.158 EXCAVATIONS MUST BE REFILLED.
   (A)   In refilling any excavation, the earth shall be thoroughly and
completely compacted using machine compacting equipment. When the excavation is
completely refilled, the surface of the excavation shall not be any higher or
lower than the original surface when the excavations were commenced and
settling will be at a minimum. The excavator shall be completely responsible
for any settling of any ditches that occur. In the event of any settling, the
excavator shall be required to refill the ditch and compact it in such manner
that the surface when refilled shall not be any higher or lower than the
original surface when the excavations were commenced. The excavator shall, as
soon as possible and in no case longer than 30 days after the start of such
excavation, completely restore the street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
place to the same condition as it was prior to the making of such excavation.
   (B)   In the event that the surface is of concrete or asphalt, the excavator
shall be required to replace the concrete or asphalt which is disturbed because
of the excavation. In the event that the surface is a maintained lawn, the
excavator shall be required to replace the lawn with sod approved by the city.
The width of the patch shall be at least two feet wider than the width of the
actual excavation, if the excavation is two feet or less. The width of the
patch shall be at least four feet wider than the actual excavation, if the
excavation is more than two feet wide. In the event that the surface is of
concrete or asphalt, all openings in the concrete or asphalt shall be
mechanically cut with a saw.
   (C)   If any settling of the ditch occurs within two years after the
excavation is backfilled, the permit holder shall, at his or her expense, be
required to remove the patch, if applicable, compact the ditch, and replace the
surface. The excavator shall be responsible for maintaining the excavation from
the time the excavation is backfilled until the surface is restored. This
maintenance shall include periodic visual inspection of the excavation to
ensure that the excavation is not settling or the fill is not being pushed out
of the excavation due to, or from, traffic.
   (D)   All excavations shall, at all times, be at the same surface elevation
as the original surface when the excavation was commenced and no excavation
shall become a hazard for vehicular travel or pedestrian traffic. In the event
that it comes to the attention of the city that any excavation is, or presents,
a hazard to vehicular traffic or pedestrian traffic, the city shall call the
telephone number noted on the permit application and advise the excavator of
the problem. The excavator shall have a period of 24 hours from the time of the
telephone call to repair the excavation so as to eliminate the hazard. Notice
under this provision shall be deemed to have been given by the city at the time
the first call is made to the telephone number of the excavator, regardless of
whether personal contact is made with the excavator as a result of the
telephone call. In the event that the excavator refuses or neglects to repair
the hazard within the 24-hour period, the city shall have the right to have its
crews repair the hazard and the excavator shall be responsible for all costs of
labor, material, and machinery in making the required repairs. The excavator
shall pay the cost of these required repairs within 30 days of the date he or
she is billed for the services. In the event the excavator does not pay within
30 days, the city will not issue any additional permits pursuant to this title
to the excavator until payment is received by the city in full. If payment is
not received by the city within 60 days of the date of billing, then the person
providing the bond to the excavator pursuant to this chapter shall be notified
in writing and a claim made against the bond filed by the excavator pursuant to
this chapter. Said noncompliance and failure to pay may also result in
revocation of the excavator’s license issued pursuant to this chapter.
§ 153.159 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   If at any time after the issuance of an excavation permit, the City
Engineer or the Building Inspector shall find that the work for which the bond
was given and posted does not pass a satisfactory test, or has not been timely
or properly refilled, maintained, and restored to its original conditions, the
City Engineer or Building Inspector shall notify the excavator in writing of
the failure.
   (B)   If the deficiency does not constitute a hazard to vehicular traffic or
pedestrian traffic, the excavator shall have a period of 20 days from the date
of the written notification of the problem to correct or alleviate the problem.
If the excavator does not correct or alleviate the problem within said 20-day
time period, the city shall have the right to have to do the required repair
and charge the excavator for the labor, material, and equipment time in making
the repairs. The city shall send a statement to the excavator notifying him or
her of the charges pursuant to this section and the excavator shall have a
period of 30 days to pay the charges in full. In the event that payment is not
made within 30 days, no further permits shall be issued pursuant to §
153.077 until charges pursuant to this section are paid in full.
   (C)   If the charges are not paid to the city within 60 days after the date
of billing, the city shall have the right to obtain full restitution from the
excavator or his or her bondsman.
§ 153.160 NON-APPLICABLE TO UTILITY COMPANIES.
   No utility company which has been granted, by franchise or contract, the
right to use the streets, alleys, or other public places shall be required to
furnish bond for making any excavations in any public rights-of-way; provided
that all sections of this chapter relating to excavations in public rights-of-
way shall be binding upon such companies.
§ 153.161 BARRICADES, GUARDS, LIGHTS, AND THE LIKE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person receiving a permit to make an excavation under this chapter
or any person making any excavation whatsoever on either public or private
ground, shall, during the progress and continuance of the work, erect, keep,
and maintain about and around the same by day and night, suitable guards and
fences, lanterns, and signals as to prevent injury to any person, animal, or
vehicle on account of such excavation.
   (B)   Any requirements set forth in this section shall be in accordance with
the requirements set forth in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
REVOCATION OF LICENSES
§ 153.175 AUTHORITY TO REVOKE LICENSE.
   The Building Inspector shall have the authority to revoke any license issued
pursuant to this chapter based upon any one or a combination of the following:
   (A)   Incompetence in his or her ability to perform the work for which the
person is licensed;
   (B)   Failure to comply with the applicable ordinances, including adopted
Building Codes;
   (C)   Failure to comply with applicable state laws;
   (D)   Failure to pay applicable fees; and
   (E)   Failure to submit or renew bond and/or insurance requirements.
§ 153.176 REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Any decision of the Building Inspector to revoke a license issued
under this chapter shall be provided in writing to the licensee.
   (B)   Said licensee may appeal the decision of the Building Inspector as set
forth within this chapter.
FENCES
§ 153.190 MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Fences may be constructed of natural material in its living state or the
following factory- manufactured materials.
   (A)   Wood. Subject to the following conditions or limitations:
      (1)   Wood which has a natural resistance to decay or treated wood may be
used;
      (2)   Wood in its natural state shall not be used;
      (3)   Plywood or other solid sheeting materials which are two feet or
wider shall not be permitted;
      (4)   Spacing of support posts on wood fences shall be no more than eight
feet on center. Such supports shall be embedded below grade not less than three
feet unless the post is embedded in concrete. If concrete is used, the post may
be embedded below grade no less than two feet and one cubic foot of concrete;
      (5)   (a)   All wood in contact with the ground shall be treated; and
         (b)   Chemical retention shall meet the American Wood Preservers
Association Standard C23-92 for round poles and C24-93 for sawn timber. In no
case shall there be less than six-tenths of a pound of chemical retention per
cubic foot of material.
   (B)   Hedges. Subject to the following conditions or limitations:
      (1)   Hedges shall not be located in the first 25 feet of any required
front yard on an interior lot.
      (2)   Hedges located on a corner lot shall not be located within 25 feet
of the property corner abutting the right-of-way intersection.
      (3)   All hedges shall be maintained in a neat and orderly fashion and
must be kept clean of all trash and other materials.
      (4)   A property owner shall remove any dead hedge within 30 days of
written notice given to the owner by the city.
      (5)   When the Police Chief finds a hedge is causing a public safety
hazard (visibility), the hazard shall be removed.
   (C)   Metal. Subject to the following conditions or limitations:
      (1)   (a)   Metal fences may be of any manufactured metal product except
barbed wire.
         (b)   An exception to the above shall exist for security fences when
approved by the City Planning Commission. Security fences may be constructed
with barbed wire if the lowest strand of barbed wire is not less than six feet
from the existing grade.
      (2)   Spacing of support posts for metal fences shall be no more than
eight feet on center.
      (3)   All supports shall be embedded in not less than one cubic feet of
concrete and extend below grade a minimum of two feet.
   (D)   Concrete, masonry, or rock. Subject to the following conditions or
limitations:
      (1)   Concrete, masonry, or rock fences may be constructed of cast in
place concrete or any manufactured concrete product.
      (2)   Fences or walls constructed of concrete products shall be designed
with reinforcement. Such design shall be in compliance with Building Code and
approved by Engineering and Inspections Office.
   (E)   Polyvinyl chloride. Subject to the following conditions or
limitations:
      (1)   Fences constructed of PVC must meet or exceed the following ASTM
requirements:
         (a)   ASTM D256 Izond Impact (23°C: five feet lbs.) (0°C: two feet
lbs.);
         (b)   ASTM D638 Tensile Strength;
         (c)   ASTM D648 Deflection Temp;
         (d)   ASTM D695 Compressive Yield (8,780 psi);
         (e)   ASTM D696 Thermal Expansion; and
         (f)   ASTM D732 Shear Strength (6,870 psi).
      (2)   Posts for PVC fencing shall not be spaced more than eight feet.
      (3)   Posts shall be installed not less than two feet below grade and
embedded in not less than one cubic foot of concrete.
   (F)   Other. Other materials may be approved by the Planning Commission and
the Engineering Office when it has been determined that the alternate material
meet or exceed the requirements of the above materials.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 153.191 HEIGHT, SETBACK, AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall apply to all fences located within the
city.
   (A)   No fence, wall, or hedge shall be permitted over the height of six
feet unless approved by the Planning Commission and Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   On any interior lot, a fence, wall, hedge, or lawn ornament which is
above the height of three feet and six inches and is opaque in nature shall not
be permitted within the first 25 feet of any required front yard.
   (C)   On any corner lot, a fence, wall, hedge, or lawn ornament which is
above the height of two feet and six inches and is opaque in nature shall not
be permitted within a site triangle which measures 25 feet back in both
directions from the property corner abutting an intersection.
   (D)   All fences must be constructed to manufacturer's recommendations or to
industry standards and shall be capable of withstanding an 80 mph wind, as per
the Building Code.
   (E)   Location with respect to sidewalk. Fences may not be constructed
within two feet of any sidewalk or two feet from the property survey pin,
whichever distance is greater. Fences may not be constructed in any right-of-
way.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 153.192 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before any person may erect or cause to be erected or constructed a
fence within the city, he or she must first obtain a building permit from the
Building Inspector.
   (B)   Two exceptions to this requirement shall exist in cases where the
fence being erected will be taken down within a period of six months or less or
where the fence is being erected in conjunction with a construction project.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 153.193 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   To obtain a building permit for a fence from the Building Inspector,
the applicant must make application to the Inspection Office in duplicate on
forms to be furnished by the city.
   (B)   The permit application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name of the owner of the property on which the fence is to be
erected;
      (2)   The legal description and address of the property on which the
fence is to be erected;
      (3)   The proposed height of the fence, wall, or hedge;
      (4)   The type of material to be used in constructing the fence; and
      (5)   The name and address of the person who will be erecting the fence.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 153.194 FEE FOR PERMIT.
   Upon making application for a permit to build a fence, said applicants shall
pay the applicable fee as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by resolution.
The Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to
time by resolution.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 7-18-2024)
§ 153.195 UNSAFE OR HAZARDOUS FENCES.
   (A)   If at any time, in the opinion of the city, a fence, wall, or hedge
becomes unsafe to the public or person occupying the property, the city shall
order the fence removed. The time given to remove an unsafe fence, wall, or
hedge shall not exceed 30 days from the date of notice.
   (B)   A fence shall be considered to be unsafe or hazardous under the
following circumstances; however, the city may find a fence is unsafe or
hazardous under other circumstances not specifically listed herein:
      (1)   Whenever any portion of the fence, its appurtenance, or its members
has been damaged by fire, wind, flood, or other cause to such an extent that
the structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was
before such catastrophe;
      (2)   Whenever any portion of the fence, its appurtenance, or its members
is likely to fail, become detached or dislodged, or collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (3)   Whenever any portion of the fence, its appurtenance, or its members
or ornamentation on the fence is not of sufficient strength or stability, or is
not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be capable of
resisting wind pressure as is stated in the Building Code for new structures;
      (4)   Whenever any portion of the fence, its appurtenance, or its members
has cracked, warped, buckled, or settled to such an extent that the fence or
portions of the fence are materially less resistant to wind;
      (5)   Whenever the fence, its appurtenance, or its members or any portion
thereof, because of dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction;
the removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary
for the purpose of supporting such fence; the deterioration, decay, or
instability of its foundation; or any other cause is likely to partially or
completely collapse;
      (6)   Whenever the fence, its appurtenance, or its members list, lean, or
buckle to such an extent that the plumb line passing through the center of
gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base of the fence;
      (7)   Whenever the fence, its appurtenance, or its members or a portion
thereof has been constructed in violation of any specific requirements of the
Building Code, the city's ordinances, or the state's laws; and
      (8)   Whenever the fence, its appurtenance, or its members or portion
thereof is creating a traffic hazard because of visibility as determined by the
Police Chief.
   (C)   (1)   If any owner of record fails to abate a nonconforming or unsafe
fence, wall, or hedge within 30 days after receipt of written notice from the
Building Inspector, certified mail, return receipt requested, the city shall
have the right to go upon the property and abate the violation without further
notice to the owner or occupant of record.
      (2)   The city may recover its costs of abatement in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 7-18-2024)
EROSION CONTROL
§ 153.210 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   During the construction process, soils are highly vulnerable to
erosion by wind and water. Eroding soil endangers water resources by reducing
the water quality and adversely affecting aquatic habitat for fish and other
aquatic species. Eroded soils also increase the maintenance and repairs needed
to maintain storm sewers, ditched, and other water carrying channels within the
city. It decreases the life expectancy for holding ponds and other runoff
management facilities. In addition, clearing and grading during construction
causes the loss of topsoil and native vegetation necessary for terrestrial and
aquatic habitat.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to safeguard persons, protect
property, and to prevent unnecessary damage to the environment within the city.
This subchapter will promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating, and
controlling the design, construction, use, and maintenance of any development
or activity that disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in the movement of
earth in the city.
   (C)   Unless specifically exempted, these regulations shall apply to all
lands within the city on which the vegetation is removed, disturbed, or fill
material has been brought onto a site.
§ 153.211 GRADING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any person may engage in a land disturbing activity effecting from
1,000 square feet up to one acre, he or she must first obtain a grading permit
from the Building Inspector.
§ 153.212 APPLICATION FOR GRADING PERMIT.
   (A)   To obtain a grading permit from the Building Inspector, the applicant
must make application to the Inspection office in duplicate on forms to be
furnished by the city.
   (B)   Said application must include or be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   The name of the owner of the real property proposed to be
disturbed;
      (2)   The name of the contractor, if any, doing the work;
      (3)   The name, address, phone number, and emergency contact information
for the person(s) responsible for the erosion control measures implementation
and maintenance;
      (4)   The legal description of the property proposed to be disturbed;
      (5)   Documentation verifying that the property owner has obtained a
general permit for stormwater discharges associated with construction
activities through the State DENR as required by SDAR 72:52:11 for land
disturbing activity of one acre or more;
      (6)   Documentation verifying that the property owner has obtained a
general permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities
through the State DENR as required by SDAR 72:52:01 through 72:52:11. The
requirements for this permit are governed by the Standard Industrial Code
(SIC). There are no size (area) requirements for this permit;
      (7)   Documentation of the approval of the stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) by the city’s Engineering and Inspections Office. The
SWPPP is required for both divisions (B)(4) and (B)(5) above; and
      (8)   Such other information the Building Inspector may request so that
he or she may determine if said improvement complies with the city’s ordinances
and/or the state’s laws.
§ 153.213 EXCEPTIONS TO PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   No grading permit shall be required for the following activities:
   (A)   Any emergency activities that are immediately necessary for the
protection of life, property, or natural resources;
   (B)   Existing nursery and agricultural operations as a permitted main or
accessory use; and
   (C)   Land disturbing activity less than 1,000 square feet.
§ 153.214 FEES.
    Upon making application for a grading permit, any applicant shall pay a fee
pursuant to the current Fees and Charges for Services Resolution (Grading
Permit Fee) as per Table 100-D on file with the City of Summerset.
(Ord. 2022-06, passed 6-2-2022)
§ 153.215 GRADING PERMIT ISSUED.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, upon receiving said application and fee, shall
examine the same. If the application is completed, the proper fee is paid, and
the proposed land disturbance conforms to the ordinances and laws of this city,
she or he shall issue a grading permit to the applicant, which shall entitle
the applicant to proceed with the land disturbance.
   (B)   If the Building Inspector, upon examination of the application, finds
that the application is not complete, or other information is necessary before
a decision can be rendered thereon, the Building Inspector may request the
additional information from the applicant without the necessity of obtaining a
new application or fee.
   (C)   (1)   If the Building Inspector finds that the land disturbance
applied for does not conform to the city’s ordinances or the state’s laws, she
or he shall reject the application by noting that fact upon the application and
returning one copy of the application to the applicant.
      (2)   The other copy of the application shall be retained in the files of
the Building Inspector.
§ 153.216 EXPIRATION OF GRADING PERMIT.
   All permits shall be issued for a period of one year but may be renewed upon
a site inspection and approval by the City Engineering and Inspections Office.
§ 153.217 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES APPLICABLE TO ALL LAND DISTURBANCES.
   Any person not required to obtain a grading permit but who is engaging in a
land disturbing activity is required to apply effective Best Management
Practices (BMP).
§ 153.218 EROSION CONTROL PLAN (ECP) REQUIREMENTS.
   Any acceptable erosion control plan (ECP) shall include the following
requirements:
   (A)   (1)   A legible map identifying the area to be disturbed, slopes, and
resources to be protected as well as the nearest downstream stormwater inlet,
drainage ways, and neighboring property lines.
      (2)   The minimum size of the map for a site up to one acre is eight and
one-half by 11 inches; for sites disturbing more than one acre and industrial
sites the minimum map size will be 11 inches by 17 inches;
   (B)   The plan must be approved and BMP’s must be in place before grading
may begin;
   (C)   Documentation verifying that the property owner has obtained a general
permit for stormwater discharges associated with construction activities
through the State DENR as required by SDAR 72:52:11 for land disturbing
activity of one acre or more;
   (D)   Documentation verifying that the property owner has obtained a general
permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities through
the State DENR as required by SDAR 72:52:01 through 72:52:11. The requirements
for this permit are governed by the Standard Industrial Code (SIC). There are
no size (area) requirements for this permit;
   (E)   All BMPs necessary to achieve soil stabilization on the site, of any
disturbed areas including stockpiles of any soil, rock, or any additional
landscaping materials on the site;
   (F)   A designated entry/exit point, an on-site concrete washout area,
measures to protect the nearest downstream stormwater inlets or drainage way,
and detailed measures to be taken to prevent mud tracking from vehicles and
equipment into the street; and
   (G)   Inclusion of the date for final stabilization, as defined below, by
the grading permit holder.
§ 153.219 FINAL STABILIZATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Final stabilization shall be considered attained for all soil
disturbing activities at a site when either of the following criteria has been
met:
      (1)   A uniform (e.g., evenly disturbed, without large bare areas)
perennial vegetation cover with a minimum density of 70% of the native
background vegetation for the area has been established on all unpaved areas
and areas not covered by a permanent structure; or
      (2)   Equivalent permanent stabilization measures, such as the use of
riprap, retaining walls, geotextiles, or other approved methods, have been
employed.
   (B)   When background native vegetation naturally covers less than 100% of
the ground, the 70% coverage criteria is adjusted as follows: if native
vegetation covers 50% of the ground, 70% of 50% (0.70 x 0.50 = 0.35) would
require 35% total coverage for final stabilization. In an area where less
vegetation is naturally found, less stabilization would be required.
   (C)   Any final stabilization must be completed within one year of
certificate of occupancy, final inspection, or project completion, whichever
occurs sooner.
§ 153.220 FINAL STABILIZATION FOR RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   For individual residential construction lots final stabilization means that
either:
   (A)   The homebuilder has completed final stabilization as specified above;
or
   (B)   The homebuilder has established temporary stabilization, including
perimeter controls for an individual lot prior to occupation of the home by the
homeowner and informing the homeowner of the need for, and benefits of, final
stabilization. In addition, the owner of the property shall be required to sign
a statement stating they are aware of these responsibilities upon acquiring the
water/sewer/garbage account for the property.
§ 153.221 FINAL STABILIZATION FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES.
   For construction projects on land used for agricultural purposes (e.g.,
pipelines across range or crop land, staging areas for road construction, and
the like), final stabilization may be accomplished by returning the disturbed
land to its preconstruction agricultural use. Areas disturbed that were not
previously used for agricultural activities, such as buffer strips immediately
adjacent to a watercourse, and areas which are not being returned to their
preconstruction agricultural use must meet the final stabilization criteria set
forth in §
153.218.
§ 153.222 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the grading permit holder to attain
the approval of all required agencies for the crossing of any waterway
associated with any grading project, (i.e., the State DENR, Corp of Engineers,
FEMA, and the like).
   (B)   ECPs and SWPPPs must be maintained on the site during the progress or
the work.
   (C)   If control measures implemented do not achieve stabilization, the
permit holder may be required to submit an updated SWPPP or may be required to
submit a ECP prepared by a qualified state-licensed professional engineer.
   (D)   The city’s authorized representative may enter on to the site to make
inspections as needed.
§ 153.223 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever the City Engineer, the City Building Official, or his or her
designee finds a site maintained contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
the City Engineer, the Building Inspector, or his or her designee is authorized
and directed to issue a stop work order for the site.
   (B)   Any stop work order shall be in writing and issued to the permittee or
assigned contractor. Upon issuance the cited work shall immediately cease. The
stop work order shall state the reasons for the order and the conditions under
which the cited work will be permitted to resume.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any work after having been served a stop
work order, except for the work required by the order, shall be considered to
be in violation of this chapter and subject to any applicable penalty set forth
herein.
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is a Class II
misdemeanor punishable by the maximum punishment set forth by the state's laws
pursuant to SDCL § 22-6-2. Said punishment may also include payment of any
costs and/or restitution authorized by this chapter and/or state law.
Additionally, the city may enforce these ordinances with the imposition of a
civil penalty for violations, including any violations for failing to timely
obtain proper permitting, with a fine as established by the Board of
Commissioners by resolution, which may from time to time be amended.
   (B)   In addition to the general penalty as stated above, any cleanup
required by the city for the removal of mud tracked onto the street from the
site, extra cleaning of the storm sewers or drainage ways, and the like, will
be charged to the permit holder at a rate of one and one-half times the normal
equipment rates and labor rate for the city.
   (C)   Failure to pay any applicable fees within 30 days of said notice may
result in the revocation of any and all outstanding permits and licenses held
through the city.
   (D)   In addition, any violation of the provisions of this chapter may
result in the revocation, suspension, or refusal to issue any license pursuant
to any section of this chapter.
   (E)   In addition, any person who commences any work toward erecting or
constructing a building or structure or causes any alterations to an existing
building or structure which requires a building permit under the terms of this
chapter before obtaining the necessary permit shall be subject to an additional
fee equal to the amount of the permit fee required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-18, passed 12-7-2023)
CHAPTER 154: WIND GENERATORS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Definitions
   
154.003   Applicability
   
154.004   Remedies
Permitted Use
   
154.015   Permit requirement
   
154.016   Permit application
Commercial Wind Generator Facilities
   
154.030   Use of public roads
   
154.031   Local emergency services
Design and Installation of Commercial Wind Generator Facilities
   
154.045   Design safety certification
   
154.046   Uniform Building Code
   
154.047   Controls and brakes
   
154.048   Electrical components
   
154.049   Visual appearance; power lines
   
154.050   Warnings
   
154.051   Decommissioning
Setbacks for Commercial Wind Generator Facilities
   
154.065   Occupied buildings
   
154.066   Property lines
   
154.067   Public roads
   
154.068   Wind generator facilities/wind farms
   
154.069   Waiver of setbacks
Rural (Non-Commercial) and Small Residential Wind Turbines
   
154.080   Purpose
   
154.081   Permitted use
Variance Procedure
   
154.095   General
   
154.096   Conditions
   
154.097   Application required
   
154.098   Requirements for granting variance
   
154.099   Report to the County Board
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the construction and
permitting of small residential, rural, and commercial wind generator
facilities in the incorporated area of the city, subject to reasonable
conditions that will protect the public health and safety.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person or entity filing an application under this chapter.
   COMMERCIAL WIND GENERATOR FACILITY (WIND FARM). An electric generating
facility, placed on 73 acres or more, whose main purpose is to supply
electricity, consisting of one or more wind turbines and other accessory
structures and buildings, including substations, meteorological towers,
electrical infrastructure, transmission lines, and other appurtenant structures
and facilities.
   FACILITY OWNER. The entity or entities having an equity interest in the wind
generator facility, including their respective successors and assigns.
   HUB HEIGHT. The distance measured from the surface of the tower foundation
to the height of the wind turbine hub, to which the blade is attached.
   NON-PARTICIPATING LANDOWNER. Any landowner except those on whose property
all or a portion of a wind generator facility is located pursuant to an
agreement with the facility owner or operator.
   OPERATOR. The entity responsible for the day-to-day operation and
maintenance of the wind generator facility.
   OCCUPIED BUILDING. A residence, school, hospital, church, public library, or
other building used for public gathering that is occupied or in use when the
permit application is submitted.
   RURAL WIND TURBINES. Small- to medium-size wind energy systems installed for
on-site use on agricultural property for supplying electricity or other uses,
not to exceed 60 feet in height.
   SMALL WIND TURBINE SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system consisting of a
wind turbine, a tower, and associated control or conversion electronics, which
has a rated capacity of not more than 10kW and which is intended to primarily
reduce on-site consumption of utility power.
   TURBINE HEIGHT. The distance measured from the surface of the tower
foundation to the highest point of the turbine rotor plane.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The height above grade of the fixed portion of the tower,
excluding the wind turbine itself.
   WIND TURBINE. A wind generator conversion system that converts wind
generator into electricity through the use of a wind turbine generator, and
includes the nacelle, rotor, tower, and pad transformer, if any.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all wind generators and wind generator
facilities proposed to be constructed after the effective date of the ordinance
codified herein, and also applies to stand-alone wind turbines constructed
primarily for residential or farm use.
   (B)   Wind generators and wind generator facilities constructed prior to the
effective date of the ordinance codified herein shall not be required to meet
the requirements of this chapter, provided that any physical modification to an
existing wind generator facility that materially alters the size, type, and
number of wind turbines or other equipment shall require a permit under this
chapter.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.004 REMEDIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to violate
or fail to comply with or take any action which is contrary to the terms of
this chapter, or any permit issued under this chapter, or cause another to
violate, fail to comply, or take any action which is contrary to the terms of
the ordinance or any permit issued under this chapter.
   (B)   If the city determines that a violation of the chapter or the permit
has occurred, the city shall provide written notice to any person, firm, or
corporation alleged to be in violation of this chapter or permit. If the
alleged violation does not pose an immediate threat to public health or safety,
the city and the parties shall engage in good faith negotiations to resolve the
alleged violation. Such negotiations shall be conducted within 30 days of the
notice of violation.
   (C)   If after 30 days from the date of the notice of violation the city
determines, at its discretion, that the parties have not resolved the alleged
violation, the city may institute civil enforcement proceedings or any other
remedy at law to ensure compliance with the chapter or permit.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
154.999
PERMITTED USE
§ 154.015 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   A wind generator facility shall be considered a permitted use if approved by
the Planning and Zoning Board and the Board of Commissioners with proper
permits and documentation required by this chapter.
   (A)   No wind generator facility, or addition of a wind turbine to an
existing wind generator facility, shall be constructed or located within the
incorporated boundaries of the city unless a permit has been issued to the
facility owner or operator approving construction of the facility under this
chapter.
   (B)   The permit application or amended permit application shall be
accompanied with a fee by the fee schedule adopted by resolution. The Board of
Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to time by
resolution, for all commercial wind generator facilities. Rural wind turbines
and small residential wind turbines are exempt from permit fees, however, all
wind generators require a building permit.
   (C)   Any physical modification to an existing and permitted commercial wind
generator facility that materially alters the size, type, and number of wind
turbines or other equipment shall require a permit modification under this
chapter. Like-kind replacements shall not require a permit modification.
   (D)   Commercial wind generator facilities shall only be placed on
agricultural property of 73 acres or more.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.016 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The permit application shall demonstrate that the proposed commercial
wind generator facility will comply with this chapter.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following:
      (1)   A narrative describing the proposed commercial wind generator
facility, including an overview of the project; the project location; the
approximate generating capacity of the commercial wind generator facility; the
approximate number, representative types and height or range of heights of wind
turbines to be constructed, including their generating capacity, dimensions,
and respective manufacturers, and a description of ancillary facilities;
      (2)   An affidavit or similar evidence of agreement between the property
owner and the facility owner or operator demonstrating that the facility owner
or operator has the permission of the property owner to apply for necessary
permits for construction and operation of the commercial wind generator
facility;
      (3)   Identification of the properties on which the proposed commercial
wind generator facility will be located, and the properties adjacent to and
within 1,000-foot radius where the commercial wind generator facility will be
located;
      (4)   A site plan showing the planned location of each wind turbine,
property lines, setback lines, access road and turnout locations, substation
(s), electrical cabling from the commercial wind generator facility to the
substation(s), ancillary equipment, buildings, and structures, including
permanent meteorological towers, associated transmission lines, and layout of
all structures within the geographical boundaries of any applicable setback;
      (5)   Documents related to decommissioning;
      (6)   Other relevant studies, reports, certifications, and approvals as
may be reasonably requested by the city to ensure compliance with this chapter;
and
      (7)   Provide a copy of the agreement between the facility owner and the
affected local power company.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of a permit application, the Planning and
Zoning Board or its designee will determine whether the application is complete
and advise the applicant accordingly.
   (D)   The applicant must appear before the Planning and Zoning Board and
Board of Commissioners at the regularly scheduled meetings. The applicant shall
participate in the hearings and be afforded an opportunity to present the
project to the public and the Planning and Zoning Board and Commission, and
answer questions about the project. The public shall be afforded an opportunity
to ask questions and provide comment on the proposed project.
      (1)   Neighbors within a 1,000 feet of the property of the proposed wind
generator must be notified by certified mail at least 14 calendar days in
advance of the scheduled Planning and Zoning Board’s public hearing along with
a return receipt requested, of the proposed construction which notice shall
include a map of the location of the proposed construction and also:
         (a)   Given the telephone number and address of the facility owner or
operator; and
         (b)   Informed of his or her right to participate in the Planning and
Zoning Board’s public hearing, with time, date, and location of said public
hearing.
      (2)   A list of the property owners who received the notice, together
with copies of the certified receipts for the notice sent to the listed
property owners shall be provided to the City Finance Officer.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the close of hearing or at the hearing, the
Planning and Zoning Board will make their recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners to issue or deny the permit application.
   (F)   Throughout the permit process, the applicant shall promptly notify the
Finance Officer of any changes to the information contained in the permit
application.
   (G)   Changes to the pending application that do not materially alter the
initial site plan may be adopted without a renewed public hearing.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
COMMERCIAL WIND GENERATOR FACILITIES
§ 154.030 USE OF PUBLIC ROADS.
   (A)   The applicant shall identify all state and local public roads to be
used within the city to transport equipment and parts for construction,
operation, or maintenance of the commercial wind generator facility.
   (B)   The city’s Public Works Superintendent or a qualified third party
engineer hired by city shall document road conditions prior to construction.
The Public Works Superintendent or a third party engineer shall document road
conditions again 30 days after construction is complete or as weather permits.
   (C)   The city may require that the road(s) to be used be bonded by the
applicant.
   (D)   Any road damage caused by the applicant or its contractors shall be
promptly repaired at the applicant’s expense and repairs must be approved by
Public Works Superintendent.
   (E)   The applicant shall demonstrate that it has appropriate financial
assurance to ensure the prompt repair of damaged roads either through a bond or
a irrevocable letter of credit.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.031 LOCAL EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)   The applicant shall provide a copy of the project summary and site
plan also to local emergency services, including volunteer fire department(s).
   (B)   Upon request, the applicant shall cooperate with the city’s emergency
management and other emergency services to develop and coordinate
implementation of an emergency response plan for the commercial wind generator
facility.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
DESIGN AND INSTALLATION OF COMMERCIAL WIND GENERATOR FACILITIES
§ 154.045 DESIGN SAFETY CERTIFICATION.
   The design of the wind generator facility shall conform to applicable
industry standards, including those of the American National Standards
Institute. The applicant shall submit certificates of design compliance
obtained by the equipment manufacturers from Underwriters Laboratories, Det
Norske Veritas, Germanishcer Llloyd Wind Energies, or other similar certifying
organizations.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.046 UNIFORM BUILDING CODE.
   To the extent applicable, the wind generator facility shall comply with the
1997 Uniform Building Construction Code.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.047 CONTROLS AND BRAKES.
   All wind generator facilities shall be equipped a electronic shut down or
with a redundant braking system. This includes both aerodynamic over-speed
controls (including variable pitch, tip, and other similar systems) and/or
mechanical brakes. Mechanical brakes shall be operated in a fail-safe mode.
Stall regulation shall not be considered a sufficient braking system for over-
speed protection.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.048 ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS.
   All electrical components of a commercial wind generator facility, rural
wind generator, and small residential wind turbines shall conform to the
National Electric Code and to relevant and applicable local, state, and
national codes, including the National Electric Code, and relevant and
applicable international standards, along with the standards set forth by the
affected local power company.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.049 VISUAL APPEARANCE; POWER LINES.
   (A)   Wind turbines shall be a non-obtrusive color such as white, off-white,
or gray.
   (B)   Wind generator facilities shall not be artificially lighted, except to
the extent required by the Federal Aviation Administration or other applicable
authority that regulates air safety, and/or the City Planning and Zoning Board
or the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Wind turbines shall not display advertising, except for reasonable
identification of the turbine manufacturer, facility owner, and operator.
   (D)   On-site transmission and power lines between wind turbines shall, to
the maximum extent practicable, be placed underground.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.050 WARNINGS.
   (A)   A clearly visible warning sign concerning voltage must be placed at
the base of all pad-mounted transformers and substations.
   (B)   Visible, reflective, colored objects such as flags, reflectors, or
tape shall be placed on the anchor points of guy wires and along the guy wires
up to a height of ten feet from the ground.
   (C)   (1)   Wind turbines shall not be climbable up to 15 feet above ground
surface.
      (2)   All access doors to wind turbines and electrical equipment shall be
locked or fenced, as appropriate, to prevent entry by non-authorized persons.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.051 DECOMMISSIONING.
   Any wind generator system which is not used for 12 successive months shall
be deemed abandoned and shall be dismantled, including excavating and removing
concrete footings to a depth of four feet, and all materials must be removed
from the property at the expense of the facility owner or property owner.
Facility owners of commercial wind generator facilities must provide a copy of
financial surety and or an insurance certificate which will cover the
decommissioning of the facility or wind farm, to the City Finance Officer.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
SETBACKS FOR COMMERCIAL WIND GENERATOR FACILITIES
§ 154.065 OCCUPIED BUILDING.
   (A)   Wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest occupied building a
distance not less than one and one-tenth times the turbine height. The setback
distance shall be measured from the center of the wind turbine base to the
nearest point on the foundation of the occupied building.
   (B)   Wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest occupied building
located on a non- participating landowner’s property a distance of not less
than five times the hub height, as measured from the center of the wind turbine
base to the nearest point on the foundation of the occupied building.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.066 PROPERTY LINES.
   All wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest property line a
distance of not less than the normal setback requirements per Chapter 155 of
this code of ordinances or one and one-tenth times the turbine height,
whichever is greater. The setback distance shall be measured to the center of
the wind turbine base.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.067 PUBLIC ROADS.
   All wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest public road a distance
of not less than one and one-tenth times the turbine height, as measured from
the right-of-way line of the nearest public road to the center of the wind
turbine base or the minimum setbacks stated in Chapter 155 of this code of
ordinances, whatever is greater.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.068 WIND GENERATOR FACILITIES/WIND FARMS.
   Wind generator facilities/wind farms must comply with applicable FAA
regulations, including any necessary approvals for installations close to
airports.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.069 WAIVER OF SETBACKS.
   (A)   Agricultural property owners may waive the setback requirements in §
155.065(B) (occupied buildings on non-participating landowner’s property) by
signing a waiver that sets forth the applicable setback provision(s) and the
proposed changes if placed on agricultural property of 73 acres or more.
   (B)   The written waiver shall notify affected property owner(s) of the
setback required by this chapter, describe how the proposed commercial wind
generator facility is not in compliance, and state that consent is granted for
the commercial wind generator facility to not be set back as required by this
chapter.
   (C)   Upon application, the city may waive the setback requirement for
public roads for good cause.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
RURAL (NON-COMMERCIAL) AND SMALL RESIDENTIAL WIND TURBINES
§ 154.080 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this regulation to promote the safe, effective, and
efficient use of small wind energy systems installed to reduce the on-site
consumption of utility supplied electricity.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.081 PERMITTED USE.
   Small wind energy systems shall be a permitted use on agricultural land and
in medium and rural density subdivision classifications where structures are
allowed, subject to certain requirements as set forth below.
   (A)   Tower height. For property sizes between three acres and up to nine
acres and up, the tower height shall be limited to 60 feet; property sizes of
greater than ten acres up to 39 acres shall have a maximum tower height of 80
feet; and property from 40 acres or more for rural wind generators, the maximum
tower height is 120 feet.
   (B)   Setback. No part of the wind system structure, including guy wire
anchors, may extend closer than one and one-tenth times the hub height in feet
to the property boundaries of the installation site.
   (C)   Noise. Small wind energy systems shall not exceed 55 dBA for lot sizes
of three and up to nine and up acres, as measured at the closest neighboring
inhabited dwelling. The level, however, may be exceeded during short-term
events such as utility outages and/or severe wind storms.
   (D)   Approved wind turbines. Small wind turbines and rural wind generators
must have been approved under the emerging technologies program recognized by
the American Wind Energy Association.
   (E)   Compliance with 1997 Uniform Building Code. Building permit
applications for small and rural wind energy systems shall be accompanied by
standard drawings of the wind turbine structure, including the tower, base, and
footings.
   (F)   Compliance with FAA regulations. Small and rural wind energy systems
must comply with applicable FAA regulations, including any necessary approvals
for installations close to airports.
   (G)   Compliance with National Electric Code. Building permit applications
for small and rural wind energy systems shall meet the National Electrical Code
and the local power companies requirements.
   (H)   Utility notification. No small or rural wind energy system shall be
installed until evidence has been given that the utility company has been
informed of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-owned
generator. Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
   (I)   Evidence. The proposed height of the wind turbine tower does not
exceed the height recommended by the manufacturer or distributor of the system.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
VARIANCE PROCEDURE
§ 154.095 GENERAL.
   The Board of Commissioners shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from the terms of this chapter. The Planning and Zoning Board shall
base its determination on technical justifications and has the right to attach
such conditions to variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives of this chapter.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.096 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In granting variances, modifications, and approvals for the wind
generator application, the City Planning and Zoning Board and Board of
Commissioners may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure
substantially the objectives or the standards or requirements so varied,
modified, or approved. In granting any variance, the Planning and Zoning Board
and Board of Commissioners shall prescribe conditions that it deems necessary
to or desirable for the public interest. These conditions may include, without
being limited to personal, surety, performance, or maintenance bonds,
affidavits, covenants, or other legal instruments. In making its findings, as
required herein, the Planning and Zoning Board and Board of Commissioners shall
take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use
of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work near the
proposed wind generator facility site, and the probable effect of the proposed
wind generator facility upon living conditions in the vicinity.
   (B)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner; there are special circumstances
or conditions affecting said property such that the strict application of the
provisions of this chapter would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of
his or her land.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.097 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Applications for any such variance shall be submitted in writing by
the facility owner and/or property owner at the time when the wind generator
facility application is filed for consideration by the City Planning and Zoning
Board and Board of Commissioners stating fully and clearly all facts relied
upon by the petitioner and shall be supplemented with maps, plans, or other
additional data which may aid the Planning and Zoning Board and Board of
Commissioners in the analysis of the proposed wind generator project. The plans
for the proposed wind generator shall include such covenants and restrictions
other legal provisions necessary to guarantee the full achievement of the
proposed plan.
   (B)   Applications for variance shall be considered with the wind generator
facility application, and the City Planning and Zoning Board and Board of
Commissioners will render its decision at the hearing or no later than 30 days
after the hearing at which the preliminary package and request for a variance
was submitted. All variances must be approved by the governing board.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.098 REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTING VARIANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the authority to give a
variance.
   (B)   The person claiming the variance has the burden of showing:
      (1)   That the granting of the variance will not be contrary to the
public interest;
      (2)   That the literal enforcement of the chapter will result in
unnecessary hardship;
      (3)   That by granting the variance contrary to the provisions of the
chapter the spirit of this chapter will be observed; and
      (4)   That by granting the variance, justice will be done.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.099 REPORT TO THE COUNTY BOARD.
   For each application for a variance, the facility owner and/or property
owner will coordinate with the Finance Officer to set a date and time for a
public hearing regarding a variance request.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter shall be a Class II misdemeanor and each
day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the criminal penalty set forth above, the Board of
Commissioners may immediately suspend all of the permits or the construction
activities of a wind generator facility which does not meet the requirements of
this chapter. If a suspension occurs, the reasons for such suspension shall be
clearly stated by the Board of Commissioners. The suspension on wind generator
facility permits or construction activities shall be lifted by the Board of
Commissioners upon satisfactory approved that the reasons which led to the
suspension have been remedied.
(Ord. 19, passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Short title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Jurisdiction
   
155.004   Intent
   
155.005   Regulations
   
155.006   Purpose of catch heads, introductory statements, and illustrations
   
155.007   Fractions
   
155.008   Savings clause
   
155.009   Definitions
Zoning Districts and Maps
   
155.020   Districts established
   
155.021   Zoning map
   
155.022   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
155.023   Scope of regulations
   
155.024   Signs
AG Agricultural District
   
155.035   General description
   
155.036   Uses permitted
   
155.037   Conditional uses
   
155.038   Area regulations
   
155.039   Height regulations
   
155.040   Other regulations
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
   
155.055   General description
   
155.056   Uses permitted
   
155.057   Conditional uses
   
155.058   Area regulations
   
155.059   Height regulations
   
155.060   Other regulations
R-2 One- and Two-Family Residential District
   
155.075   General description
   
155.076   Uses permitted
   
155.077   Conditional uses
   
155.078   Area regulations
   
155.079   Height regulations
   
155.080   Other regulations
R-3 Multi-Family Residential District
   
155.095   General description
   
155.096   Uses permitted
   
155.097   Conditional uses
   
155.098   Area regulations
   
155.099   Height regulations
   
155.100   Other regulations
   
155.101   Usable open space
   
155.102   Required play area
C-1 General Commercial District
   
155.115   General description
   
155.116   Uses permitted
   
155.117   Conditional uses
   
155.118   Area regulations
   
155.119   Height regulations
   
155.120   Other regulations
GI General Industrial District
   
155.135   General description
   
155.136   Uses permitted
   
155.137   Conditional uses
   
155.138   Area regulations
   
155.139   Height regulations
   
155.140   Parking and loading requirements
   
155.141   Screening
   
155.142   Other regulations
Planned Development District
   
155.155   General description
   
155.156   Uses permitted
   
155.157   Uses prohibited
   
155.158   Minimum requirements for improvements and design
   
155.159   Procedure
   
155.160   Initial development plan
   
155.161   Final development plan
   
155.162   Amendments
Additional Use, Yard, and Height Requirements
   
155.175   General permitted uses regulations
   
155.176   General accessory use and structure provisions
   
155.177   Permitted accessory structures
   
155.178   Home occupations
   
155.179   Temporary uses
   
155.180   Fences
   
155.181   Yard and building setback exceptions
   
155.182   Sight triangles
   
155.183   Height exceptions
Outdoor Lighting Requirements
   
155.195   Intent
   
155.196   Conformance with applicable codes
   
155.197   Applicability
   
155.198   Approved materials and method of construction or installation/
operation
   
155.199   Definitions
   
155.200   Shielding
   
155.201   Filtration
   
155.202   Outdoor advertising signs
   
155.203   Temporary exemptions
   
155.204   Other exemptions
Wind Energy Conversion Systems
   
155.215   General
   
155.216   Commercial sale of power prohibited
   
155.217   Utility interconnections
   
155.218   Required setbacks
   
155.219   Tower height
   
155.220   Rotor size/operation
   
155.221   Noise
   
155.222   Electromagnetic interference
   
155.223   Tower access
   
155.224   Warning information
   
155.225   Lighting
   
155.226   Tower design
   
155.227   Manufacturer warranty/maintenance information
   
155.228   Construction standards
   
155.229   Abandonment/removal
Development Standards for Certain Conditional Uses
   
155.240   Purpose
   
155.241   Manufacture home park/subdivisions
   
155.242   Campgrounds, recreation vehicle park, and travel parks standards
Parking, Loading, and Stacking Requirements
   
155.255   Purpose
   
155.256   Minimum requirements
   
155.257   Off-street loading and unloading requirements
   
155.258   Storage and parking of trailers, recreational vehicles, and
commercial vehicles
Sign Regulations
   
155.270   Authority
   
155.271   Intent
   
155.272   Compliance and applicability
   
155.273   Definitions
   
155.274   Exemptions
   
155.275   New signs
   
155.276   Applications and permitting
   
155.277   Outdoor lighting for outdoor advertising
   
155.278   Sign maintenance
   
155.279   Enforcement of sign ordinance
   
155.280   Permits and fees
Landscaping and Buffering Requirements
   
155.295   Purpose
   
155.296   Landscaping required
   
155.297   Definitions
   
155.298   General regulations
   
155.299   Landscape plan approval steps
   
155.300   Landscape requirements
   
155.301   Landscape plans
   
155.302   Landscape irrigation requirements
   
155.303   Existing tree credit
   
155.304   Health, safety, and aesthetic barriers
Nonconforming Uses
   
155.315   Purpose and intent
   
155.316   Continuation of nonconforming uses
   
155.317   Change of nonconforming use
   
155.318   Extension or enlargement
   
155.319   Restoration after damage
   
155.320   Discontinuation of nonconforming uses
   
155.321   Effect on use which is illegal under prior law
   
155.322   Existing small lots
Authorizing Conditional Uses
   
155.335   General
   
155.336   Application procedure
   
155.337   Appeals
   
155.338   Governing body percentage of vote required for approval of
conditional use permit
   
155.339   Amendments
   
155.340   Expiration and renovations
   
155.341   Denial of request
Amendments
   
155.355   Standards for amendments
   
155.356   Text amendments
   
155.357   Rezoning requests
   
155.358   Protest
Board of Adjustments
   
155.370   Variances
   
155.371   Board established
   
155.372   Membership
   
155.373   Rules
   
155.374   Meetings
   
155.375   Appeal procedure
   
155.376   Signs
   
155.377   Limitations
   
155.378   Court review
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.390   Administrative Officer
   
155.391   Planning and Zoning Board
   
155.392   Board of Commissioners
   
155.393   Right of entry
   
155.394   Stop order
   
155.395   Occupancy violation
   
155.396   Certificate of occupancy
   
155.397   Cooperation of other officials and officers
   
155.398   Violation and penalty
   
155.399   Appeals
   
155.400   Fees
   
155.401   Pending ordinance rule
   
155.402   Complaints regarding violations
   
155.403   Interpretation, abrogation, and severability
   
155.404   Minimum requirements
   
155.405   Conflict with public and private provisions
   
155.406   Repealer
   
155.407   Construction of repealer
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 SHORT TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Ordinance.”
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.02.010)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the safety, health,
convenience, aesthetics, and general welfare in the city.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.02.020)
§ 155.003 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall apply to all lands within the corporate boundary of
the city as from time to time may be amended.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.02.030)
§ 155.004 INTENT.
   The zoning regulations set forth by this chapter within each district shall
be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.03.020)
§ 155.005 REGULATIONS.
   The following general regulations shall apply to all zoning districts.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no building shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or structurally altered, nor shall
any structure or land be used, except:
      (1)   For a purpose permitted in the district in which the structure or
land is located;
      (2)   In conformance with the height and minimum lot requirements, and
the parking, loading, stacking, and sign regulations, and any other applicable
requirements of the district in which the structure or land is located; and
      (3)   In conformance with any federal, state, or municipal codes as may
be applicable. Where this chapter and another chapter conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (B)   The density and yard regulations of this chapter are minimum
regulations for each and every building existing at the effective date of the
ordinance codified herein or for any building hereafter erected or structurally
altered. No land required for yards or other open spaces about an existing
building or any building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
considered a yard or lot area for more than one building.
   (C)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot as herein defined, and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on a lot except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Cooperatives, condominiums, and all other forms of property ownership
do not affect the provisions of these regulations. All requirements shall be
observed as though the property were under single ownership.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.03.030)
§ 155.006 PURPOSE OF CATCH HEADS, INTRODUCTORY STATEMENTS, AND ILLUSTRATIONS.
   The catch heads appearing in connection with the sections of this chapter
are inserted simply for convenience to serve the purpose of an index. The
introductory statements found at the beginning of each chapter are to serve as
general references only. The catch heads, introductory statements, and
illustrative examples of zoning terms shall be wholly disregarded by any
person, office, court, or other tribunal in construing the terms and provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.03.040)
§ 155.007 FRACTIONS.
   Where fractional numbers occur in this chapter, they shall be rounded off to
the nearest whole number.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.03.050)
§ 155.008 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   This chapter shall in no manner affect pending actions, either civil or
criminal, founded on or growing out of any ordinance or part of any ordinance
hereby repealed; this chapter shall in no manner affect rights or causes of
action, either civil or criminal, not in suit that may have already accrued or
grown out of any ordinance or part of any ordinance hereby repealed.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.03.060)
 
§ 155.009 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter and in order to carry out the
provisions and intentions as set forth herein, certain words, terms, and
phrases are to be used and interpreted as defined hereinafter. Words used in
the present tense shall include the future tense; words in the singular number
include the plural and words in the plural number include the singular; the
word “person” includes a firm, partnership, or corporation as well as an
individual; the word “lot” includes the word “plot” or “parcel”; the word
“building” includes the word “structure”; the term “shall” is always mandatory
and not directory; and the word “may” is permissive. The word “used” or
“occupied” as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the
words “intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied.”
   (B)   The following words, terms, and phrases are defined and shall be
interpreted as such throughout this chapter. Terms not herein defined shall
have the meaning customarily assigned to them.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABUT. To share any portion of a lot line, including a single point.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, the use of which is
incidental to that of a principal building or buildings located on the same lot
therewith. Radio and television antenna towers, and permanent satellite dish
antennas and the appurtenant mounting apparatus, excluding guy anchor points,
shall be considered an ACCESSORY BUILDING for the purpose of determining
setback requirements established in each zoning district.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING, PORTABLE. See PORTABLE ACCESSORY BUILDING.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use of land and/or buildings located on the same lot.
         (a)   An ACCESSORY USE may only be constructed in conjunction with the
issuance of a building permit for or following the construction of a primary
use.
         (b)   In the case of adjoining lots under common ownership, an
ACCESSORY USE shall only be constructed on the same lot(s) as the primary use.
      ADJACENT. Parcels with no private lots between them (can be shared by
public right-of-way).
      ADJOIN. To share any portion of a lot line, including a single point.
      ADVERTISING. This includes any writing, printing, painting, display,
emblem, drawing, sign, or other device designed, used, or intended for
ADVERTISING, whether placed on the ground, rocks, trees, tree stumps, or other
natural structures, or on a building, structure, milestone, signboard,
billboard, wallboard, roof board, frame, support, fence, or other human-made
structure, and any such ADVERTISING is a structure within the meaning of the
word “structure” as used in this chapter.
      ADVERTISING SIGN OR STRUCTURE. See SIGN.
      AGRICULTURE. The production, keeping, or maintenance for sale, lease, or
personal use, of plants and animals useful to humans, including, but not
limited to: forages; sod crops; grains and seed crops; dairy animals and dairy
products, poultry and poultry products; livestock, including beef cattle,
sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules, or goats, or any mutations of hybrids
thereof, including the breeding and grazing of any or all of such animals; bees
and apiary products; fur animals; trees and forest products; fruits of all
kinds, including grapes, nuts, and berries; vegetables; nursery, floral,
ornamental, and greenhouse products; or lands devoted to soil conservation or
forestry management programs. This definition shall not include intensive
agricultural activities such as feed lot operations, chicken farms, and
agribusiness activities.
      ALLEY. A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which affords a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street and which may be used for public utility purposes.
      ALTERATIONS. As applied to a building or structure, this term means a
change or rearrangement in the structural parts, or an enlargement, whether by
extending on a side or by increasing in height, or the moving from one location
or position to another.
      AMUSEMENT AND RECREATION ESTABLISHMENTS. Businesses whose primary
function is entertainment, such as theaters, billiard halls, and the like.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
      AREA, BUILDING. The square footage of the footprint of the principal
building and all accessory buildings exclusive of non enclosed porches,
terraces, steps, and decks.
      ART CENTERS. This includes galleries, accessory museum space, classroom
and studio space, the manufacturing of sculptures and other artwork as an
accessory use to the gallery space, accessory gift shop, and other accessory
uses.
      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY/GROUP CARE HOME. A residential facility licensed
by the state that is established for the purpose of providing, on a long-term
basis and for monetary compensation, room and board for three or more
individuals living as a single household unit, who are unrelated by blood or
marriage, and who by reason of age, physical, or mental disability may require
personal assistance in achieving personal independence. Such a FACILITY may
contain a separate and defined living unit for a resident caretaker or manager.
In addition to the above, GROUP CARE HOMES shall include all such facilities
licensed by state or federal authority which provide room, board, and other
care for three or more person; provided, however, that missions, detoxification
centers, and detention and residential inpatient treatment facilities shall not
be construed to fall under the definition of GROUP CARE HOMES, whether licensed
or not.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. The dismantling, storage, sale, or dumping of used
motor vehicles, trailers, or parts thereof.
      AVERAGE GROUND ELEVATION. The elevation of the mean finished ground
surface at the front wall of a structure.
      BASEMENT. A story having at least one-half of its height below the
average level of the adjoining ground. A BASEMENT shall be counted as one-half
story. (See STORY.)
      BED AND BREAKFAST. A residence offering overnight lodging and a morning
meal, with not more than four guest sleeping rooms for not more than eight
persons. A BED AND BREAKFAST in a residential zone shall be regulated as a home
occupation.
      BILLBOARD. See SIGN.
      BOARD. The Board of Zoning Adjustment for the city.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling as distinct from a hotel or rooming house
where, for compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals or
lodging and meals are provided for three or more but not exceeding 12 persons
on a weekly or monthly basis.
      BUILDABLE AREA OF A LOT. The portion of a lot bounded by the required
rear and side yards and the building setback line.
      BUILDING. Any enclosed structure intended for shelter, housing, or
enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.
      BUILDING, ACCESSORY. See ACCESSORY BUILDING.
      BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL. A building or buildings in which is
conducted the principal use or uses of the lot. In any commercial or industrial
district, more than one principal building for an industrial or commercial use
may be permitted on a single lot, provided setback, yard, and lot coverage
requirements are met. In any residential district, any single-family, two-
family, or multiple dwelling shall be deemed to be the sole PRINCIPAL BUILDING
on the lot on which it is situated.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the various codes regulating construction, use, or occupancy of
buildings and structures, public or private.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line delineating the minimum allowable distance
between the street right-of-way and the front of a structure, within which no
building or other structure shall be placed except as provided in §
155.038, §
155.058, §
155.078, §
155.098, §
155.118, §
155.138, §
155.158, and §
155.178. The BUILDING SETBACK LINE is parallel to or concentric with the street
right-of-way.
      BUILDING SITE. A single parcel of land occupied or intended to be
occupied by a building or structure.
      BUSINESS SERVICES. Any activities which render service primarily to other
commercial and industrial enterprises, or which service and repair appliances
and machines used in a home or business.
      CELLAR. The portion of a building between the floor and ceiling which is
wholly or partly below grade (adjoining ground elevation) and so located that
the vertical distance from grade to the floor below is equal to or greater than
the vertical distance from grade to ceiling. (See STORY.)
      CLINIC. See MEDICAL FACILITY.
      CLUB, PRIVATE. An organization catering exclusively to members and their
guests, or premises and buildings for recreational, fraternal, or athletic
purposes which are not conducted primarily for gain, providing that any vending
stands, merchandising, or commercial activities are conducted only as required
generally for the membership of such CLUB, organized formerly by either
incorporation or association of a national or state organization.
      CNG. Compressed natural gas.
      CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. The permitting of a use of land and/or structures
not otherwise permitted by right in the zoning district. Said PERMIT shall be
issued by the city stating that the conditional use complies with the
conditions and standards set forth in this chapter and authorized by the city.
      COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS FACILITY. A 24-hour-per-day minimum security
detention facility for county, state, or federal inmates on release from a more
restrictive detention facility or offenders initially placed by a court in lieu
of a more restrictive detention facility where supervision as well as
employment, education, and rehabilitation assistance are provided. The FACILITY
may be either a single structure or a grouping of structures on a single site.
      CONDOMINIUM. Real property consisting of an undivided interest in
portions of a parcel of real property together with a separate interest in
space in a residential, industrial, or commercial building on such real
property. A CONDOMINIUM may include, in addition, a separate interest in other
portions of real property.
      CONTIGUOUS. Sharing any portion of a lot line, including a single point.
      CONVENTION HOTEL. Any facility which provides a variety of services
designed predominately to serve the needs of the convention business. The
facility shall be permitted to have 100 square feet of floor space for
associated related uses for every 100 square feet of room space. A CONVENTION
HOTEL shall have a minimum of 150 rooms and shall provide such facilities as
restaurants, lounges, meeting rooms, and similar related retail uses. A minimum
of 20% of the rooms shall be business suites.
      COUNTRY CLUB. A chartered, membership club, with or without dining
facilities and cocktail lounge, catering primarily to its membership, providing
one or more of the following recreational and social amenities: golfing,
riding, outdoor recreation, clubhouse, locker room, and pro shop.
      COVERAGE. The lot area covered by all buildings located therein,
including the area covered by all overhanging roofs.
      DAY CARE. The providing of care and supervision of children/adults as a
supplement to regular parental/home care, without transfer of legal custody or
placement for adoption, with or without compensation, on a regular basis for a
part of a day.
      DAY CARE, CENTER. A facility used for providing adult or child day care
not located in a home and is limited in number by the square footage of useable
space available. The ratio is 35 square feet per person indoors and 50 square
feet per person outdoors.
      DAY CARE, HOME. Care is provided in a dwelling and the number of persons
cared for is limited to a maximum of six adults or six children under the age
of 14 years. Included in the number of children are the provider’s own children
six years and under. The dwelling shall be used as the principal use and the
day care use shall be accessory.
      DAY CARE, FAMILY. Care is provided in a dwelling. The number of persons
cared for is seven to 12 adults or children under the age of 14 years including
the provider’s own children six years and under. The dwelling shall be used as
the principal use and the day care use shall be accessory.
      DEVELOPMENTAL LOT. A plot plan of one or more lots when signed by the
Planning and Zoning Board or its designee. A DEVELOPMENTAL LOT can only be so
designated where the lots are under one ownership, as per ownership of record
files. Only one residential building and its accessory buildings shall be
placed on any DEVELOPMENTAL LOT. In any commercial or industrial district, more
than one principal building for an industrial or commercial use may be
permitted on a DEVELOPMENTAL LOT provided setback, yard, and lot coverage
requirements are met.
      DISTRICT.   Any section or sections of the city for which the regulations
governing use of the land and use, density, bulk, height, and coverage of
buildings and other structures are uniform.
      DORMITORY. A building containing sleeping rooms for either transient or
permanent occupancy.
      DRIVE-IN COMMERCIAL USES. Any retail commercial use providing off-street
parking and catering primarily to vehicular trade such as drive-in restaurants,
drive-in theaters, and similar uses.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANTS. Any establishment in which patrons, while remaining
in their cars, are served food, beverages, or refreshments for consumption on
or off the premises.
      DUMP. A lot or land or part thereof used primarily for the disposal by
abandonment, dumping, burial, burning, or any other means and for whatever
purpose of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discharged machinery,
vehicles, or parts thereof, or waste material of any kind.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, exclusive of manufactured homes
as herein defined, used for residential purposes. (See DWELLING UNIT.)
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A detached building designed for occupancy by three
or more families living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or
trailer courts or camps, hotels, or resort-type hotels.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed to be occupied
exclusively by one family.
      DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. One of a group of two or more attached single-family
dwelling units built on one or more common lot lines. There shall be no
overlapping of TOWNHOUSE STRUCTURES with the exception of roof overhangs. Each
TOWNHOUSE shall be located on an individually platted lot which may contain
open space in addition to the area upon which the dwelling is constructed. The
owner of the TOWNHOUSE may also participate in the ownership of common property
within a townhouse development.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached building designed to be occupied by two
families living independently of each other, exclusive of auto or trailer
courts or camps, hotels, or resort-type hotels.
      DWELLING UNIT.   One or more rooms, designed, occupied, or intended for
occupancy as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary
facilities provided within the DWELLING UNIT for the exclusive use of a single
family maintaining a household.
      EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A standard applied in determining the
location of encroachment limits so that floodplain lands on both sides of a
stream are capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows. This is
determined by considering the effect of encroachment on the hydraulic
efficiency of the floodplain along both sides of a stream for a significant
reach.
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, or a
group not to exceed five persons (excluding servants) none of whom are related
by blood or marriage, occupying the premises, and living as a single nonprofit
housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding or lodging
house, hotel, club, or similar dwelling for group use. A FAMILY shall be deemed
to include domestic servants employed by the FAMILY.
      FARMER’S MARKET. The offering for sale of fresh agricultural products
directly to the consumer at an open air market designated by the council as a
community activity.
      FAST-FOOD RESTAURANTS.
         (a)   Any restaurant in which food is served to patrons in disposable
containers.
         (b)   DISPOSABLE CONTAINERS shall be defined as but not limited to
those containers made of paper, plastic, or styrofoam, and which are intended
to be discarded after use.
      FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall, or gate erected as a dividing
marker, barrier, or enclosure located on the boundary lines or within the
required yard.
      FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream level that results in inundation of
area not ordinarily covered by water.
      FLOOD FREQUENCY. The average frequency, statistically determined, for
which it is expected that a specific flood level or discharge may be equaled or
exceeded.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
      FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross floor area for each of the several
stories under roof, measured from the exterior limits or faces of a building or
structure.
      FOOD PROCESSING. The preparation of food products for retail sale on the
premises.
      FRATERNITY OR SORORITY HOUSE. A building housing the members of a
fraternity or sorority group living together under a cooperative arrangement as
distinct from a boarding or lodging house or private club.
      FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the
street, or, if the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on
one side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
      GARAGE, ATTACHED.   There must be no less than six feet of common wall
between the house and garage, or a common roof carried over both the primary
structure and the auxiliary building.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or part of a main building used
primarily for storage and which shall not be used for commercial purposes. The
maximum cumulative allowable size of all garages or carports shall be 1,500
square feet or 30% of the size of the gross floor area of the dwelling unit(s),
whichever is greater. In no event shall the size of the building footprint of
the garage(s) or carport(s) exceed the footprint of the dwelling unit(s). The
garage(s) or carport(s) shall be used only by persons residing on the premises.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage other than a private garage, available to the
public, which is used for the storage, repair, rental, greasing, washing,
sales, servicing, adjusting, or equipping of automobiles or other motor
vehicles.
      GARAGE, REPAIR. A building in which are provided facilities for the care,
servicing, repair, or equipping of motor vehicles.
      GARDEN CENTERS. A retail and/or wholesale establishment consisting of one
or more of the following uses: greenhouses, tree or plant nurseries, and
landscaping sales and service.
      GASOLINE SERVICE OR FILLING STATION. Any area of land, including
structures thereon, that is used for the retail sale of gasoline, butane, or
propane, oil fuels, or other automobile accessories and for servicing motor
vehicles, but not including painting.
      GRADE, ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION. The lowest part of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground surface, paving, or sidewalk within the area
between the building and the property line, or when the property line is more
than five feet from the building, between the building and a line five feet
from the building.
      GRADE, ESTABLISHED. The elevation of the centerline of the streets as
officially established by the city authorities.
      GRADE, FINISHED. The completed surfaces of lawns, walks, and roads
brought to grades as shown on official plans or designs relating thereto.
      GROUP HOME. An activity providing personal assistance to six or more
individuals unrelated by blood or marriage who, by reason of mental or physical
disability, addiction to drugs or alcohol, or family and school adjustment
problems, require specialized attention and care in order to achieve personal
independence. Such assistance must include board and room, and may include
counseling, rehabilitative services and other incidental services customarily
provided by GROUP HOMES. This shall not include missions, detoxification
centers, or detention centers.
      HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department or State Health
Department.
      HEIGHT. As related to zoning district height regulations, the vertical
distance measured from the average ground elevation of the proposed finished
grade to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of
mansard roofs, and to the mean height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip,
and gambrel roofs.
      HISTORICAL MONUMENTS AND/OR STRUCTURES. Any antique structure or building
existing contemporaneously with and commonly associated with an outstanding
event or period of history, and any structure or building in which the relics
and/or mementos of such event or period are housed and preserved and that have
been officially designated by the city, state, or federal government.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any activity conducted for financial gain by the
occupants of any dwelling unit which is located within a residential zoned
district.
      HOSPITAL. See MEDICAL FACILITIES.
      HOTEL, MOTEL, MOTOR COURT, MOTOR LODGE, or TOURIST COURT. Any building or
group of buildings containing guest rooms or dwelling units, some or all of
which have a separate entrance leading directly from the outside of the
building with garage or parking space conveniently located on the lot, and
designed, used, or intended wholly or in part for the accommodation of
transient guest.
      HOUSE TRAILER. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
      HOUSE TRAILER PARK. See MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
      HIGH-TECH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION FACILITY. A facility predominantly
utilizing computerized or robotic production techniques with limited labor
requirements, including, but not limited to, computerized printing processes,
robotic parts manufacturing, and the like.
      INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODES. The International Building Codes as
officially adopted by the city in
Chapter 152.
      JUNKYARD or SALVAGE YARD. A lot, land, or structure, or part thereof,
used primarily for the collecting, storage, and sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap
metal, or discarded material; or for the collecting, dismantling, storing, and
salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of
parts thereof.
      KENNEL. Any lot or premises or portion thereof where four or more dogs,
cats, rabbits or other household/domesticated animals, six months of age or
older, are maintained, boarded, bred, or cared for, in return for any
compensation, or are kept for the purpose of sale. A retail store meeting the
definition of “pet store” as contained in the definition for “pet store” below
is not a KENNEL for purposes of zoning.
      LEGAL NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure, or use of land existing
at the time of enactment of this title not legally conforming to the
regulations of the district in which it is situated.
      LOADING SPACE. A space within the main building or on the same lot
therewith, providing for the standing, loading, or unloading of a truck.
      LOT. A platted parcel of land which is or may be occupied by a building
and its accessory buildings.
      LOT, AREA. The total horizontal area included within lot lines.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot on which at least two adjoining sides abut for their
full lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection
of two such sides is less than 135 degrees. A CORNER LOT shall be deemed to
have two front lot lines and two side lot lines.
      LOT, DEPTH. The average distance from the street line of the lot to its
rear line, measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
      LOT, DOUBLE-FRONTAGE. A lot which runs through a block from street to
street and which has two nonintersecting sides abutting on two or more streets.
      LOT, FRONTAGE. The dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, the line separating the
lot from the street. In the case of a corner or double-frontage lot, the line
separating the lot from that street which is designated as the front street in
the request for building permit.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot boundary opposite and most distant from the front
lot line. In the case of a pointed or irregular lot, it shall be an imaginary
line parallel to and farthest from the front lot line, not less than ten feet
long and wholly within the lot.
      LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
      LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot at the building setback line measured at
right angles to its depth.
      MANUFACTURED HOME.
         (a)   A portable dwelling unit designed and constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, comprised of frame and wheels, and designed to be connected to
utilities for year-round occupancy.
         (b)   The term shall include:
            (1)   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed, or
telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional
cubic capacity; and
            (2)   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing.
         (c)   The term shall include units designed to be used for
residential, commercial, educational, or industrial purposes, excluding,
however, recreational vehicles, and travel trailers.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any area, tract, or site or plot of land not less
than ten acres whereupon “manufactured homes” as herein defined are placed,
located, or maintained, or intended to be placed, located, or maintained, and
shall include all accessory buildings used or intended to be used as part of
the equipment thereof.
      MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A defined plot of ground or lot within a
manufactured home park which is designed for and designated as the location for
two automobiles and one manufactured home, and not used for any other purposes
whatsoever other than customary accessory uses.
      MEDICAL FACILITIES. This term includes:
         (a)   CONVALESCENT, REST, OR NURSING HOME. A health facility where
persons are housed and furnished with meals and continuing nursing care for
compensation;
         (b)   DENTAL CLINIC or MEDICAL CLINIC. A facility for the examination
and treatment of ill and afflicted human outpatients, provided, however, that
patients are not kept overnight except under emergency conditions;
         (c)   DENTAL OFFICE or DOCTORS’ OFFICES. The same thing as dental or
medical clinic;
         (d)   FUNERAL HOME. An establishment with facilities for the
preparation of the dead for burial or cremation, for the viewing of bodies, and
for funerals;
         (e)   HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services primarily for
human inpatient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training
facilities, central services facilities, and staff offices which are an
integral part of the facilities;
         (f)   PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER. A facility primarily utilized by a health
unit for the provision of public health services including related facilities
such as laboratories, clinics, and administrative offices operated in
connection therewith; and
         (g)   SANATORIUMS. An institution providing health facilities for
inpatient medical treatment or treatment and recuperation using natural
therapeutic agents.
      MICRO CELL CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. Cellular communications
facilities providing communications coverage to a geographically limited and
specifically defined area (e.g., a topographically constrained area due to
natural or urban built environment). Such facilities are integrated with
standard cellular technology (i.e., a macro cell) to provide wireless
communication services to the public. The installation of such FACILITIES shall
be allowed on the top of existing buildings as a permitted use in certain
zoning districts if all of the following criteria are met (otherwise a use on
review permit shall be required):
         (a)   No new antenna tower is erected (and the micro cell facility is
located on buildings in compliance with this definition);
         (b)   No antenna shall be located within 30 inches of any space
occupied by or available to the public;
         (c)   No antenna shall exceed six square feet in area;
         (d)   The equipment shelter associated with a micro cell site may not
exceed 100 square feet in floor area;
         (e)   The antenna may be mounted on a roof only if the height of the
antenna at the highest point does not exceed the horizontal distance from the
antenna to the nearest edge of the rooftop;
         (f)   Facade mounted antenna may not exceed five feet above the facade
to which it is attached with a maximum projection of 18 inches;
         (g)   Facade mounted antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical
equipment must be the same color as the supporting structure so as to make the
antenna and related equipment as unobtrusive as possible;
         (h)   Any micro cell facilities and related structures shall be
situated in such a way that no interference with firefighting apparatus or
emergency access or exits shall result;
         (i)   No more than two micro cell antennas and related accessory
structures shall be located on any single building rooftop; and
         (j)   All necessary plans, specifications, and structural calculations
shall be submitted to the Building Official and if necessary, a building permit
application shall be approved prior to the construction of the micro cell
facility.
      MINIMUM FLOOR ELEVATION. The lowest elevation permissible for the
construction, erection, or other placement of any floor, including a basement
floor.
      MISSIONS. An activity providing personal assistance on a nonprofit basis
to individuals of an indigent status. Such assistance must include food and/or
shelter and may, in addition, include religious instruction, counseling, and
other incidental services customarily provided by MISSIONS.
      MODULAR HOME. This consists of finished units composed of two or more
components designed to be joined into one integral unit not capable of being
separated into its components for moving and towing; designed to be placed on a
permanent foundation with or without a basement. To be classed as a MODULAR
HOME, the completed unit must meet with the specifications of the following:
         (a)   Building Code, as adopted;
         (b)   Electric Code, as adopted;
         (c)   Plumbing Code, as adopted;
         (d)   Mechanical Code, as adopted.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A structure or use of land existing at the time of
enactment of the ordinance codified herein which does not conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      NOXIOUS MATTER. Material (in gaseous, liquid, solid, particulate, or any
other form) which is capable of causing injury to living organisms by chemical
reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the social,
economic, or psychological well-being of individuals.
      OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel, rectification, bridge conduit,
culvert, building, wire fence, rock gravel, refuse, fill, structure, or matter
in, along, across, or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory
flood hazard area which may impede, retard, increase, or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the flow of water might carry
the same downstream to the damage of life or property.
      ON-SALE LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENT. Any use which has been licensed to sell
malt beverages, wine, or other alcoholic beverages for consumption upon the
premises where sold, except for temporary on-sale license for convention hall
and a special malt beverage retailers license.
      OPEN SPACE. The total area of all land on a lot not covered by structures
or parking lots.
      PARKING LOT. An off-street facility including parking spaces along with
adequate provision for drives and aisles for maneuvering and giving access, and
for entrance and exit, all laid out in a way to be usable for the parking of
more than six automobiles.
      PARKING SPACE/OFF-STREET. A hard surfaced parking area of not less than
171 square feet per parking space located behind the curb line of a public
street, within a garage or carport, or outside the maintained driving surface
of a public street.
      PENTHOUSE. An enclosed structure other than a roof structure, located on
a roof, extending not more than 12 feet above the roof.
      PET STORE. A retail facility providing for the sale of animals and
accessory products. A PET STORE does not include the boarding or breeding of
animals for compensation.
      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A procedure set forth in this chapter which allows
for some deviation from the conventional zoning and subdivision ordinances.
Each PLANNED DEVELOPMENT shall have a set of development standards and all
approved PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS shall be in keeping with the city’s Comprehensive
Plan. PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS are regulated by §§
155.155 through
155.162.
      PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD. The Planning Commission for the city which is
delegated authority by SDCL Ch. 11-6 and the Board of Commissioners to review
proposals for land use and building projects, zoning allocations, and revisions
and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners for approval/disapproval
or adoption, respectively.
      PLAT. A map, plan, or layout indicating the location and boundaries of
individual properties drawn in compliance to state’s requirements.
      PORTABLE ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, the use of which is
incidental to that of a principal building or buildings located on the same lot
therewith and which can be moved on skids or by some other means. The building
must be 120 square feet or less and have no footing or foundation to be
considered a PORTABLE ACCESSORY BUILDING.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The specific primary purposes for which the land or
buildings are used. In any commercial or industrial district, more than one
PRINCIPAL USE of an industrial or commercial nature may be permitted on a
single lot provided setback, yard, and lot coverage requirements are met. In
any residential district, any single-family, two-family, or multiple dwelling
shall be deemed to be the sole PRINCIPAL USE on the lot on which it is
situated.
      PUBLIC USES. Public parks, schools, and administrative, cultural, and
service buildings not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the
storage and maintenance of equipment and material.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, or
board duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under state or municipal
regulations, to the public, electricity, gas, steam, communication, telegraph,
transportation, or water.
      QUARRY. A lot or land or part thereof used for the purpose of extracting
stone, sand, gravel, or top soil for sale, as an industrial operation, and
exclusive of the process of grading a lot preparatory to the construction of a
building for which application for a building permit has been made.
      REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a segment of a stream or
river that generally contains a specified feature that is either uniform
throughout or requires special attention or study. A REACH will generally
include the segment of the floodway area where flood heights are influenced by
a human-made or natural obstruction (e.g., a segment of a stream or river
between consecutive bridge crossings). A “significant reach” may include more
than one normal REACH based upon the extent of the proposed change.
      RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Country clubs, riding stables, golf courses, and
other private noncommercial recreation areas and facilities, or recreation
centers including private swimming pools.
      RECYCLABLES, HOUSEHOLD. Waste material from normal household operations
accepted at recycling centers including, but not limited to, glass, plastic,
aluminum, tin, newspaper, cardboard, lawn clippings, leaves, and tree branches.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known
to have occurred generally in the area and reasonably characteristic of what
can be expected to occur in a particular stream. The REGULATORY FLOOD generally
has a frequency of approximately 100 years determined from an analysis of
floods on a particular stream and other streams in the same general region.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation to which uses
regulated by this title are required to be elevated or flood-proofed.
      REQUIRED SETBACK. A distance necessary to obtain the minimum front, side,
and rear yards required in this chapter.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Other than a boarding house, where lodging only is
provided for compensation to three or more, but not exceeding 12 persons. A
building which has accommodations for more than 12 persons shall be defined as
a “hotel” under the terms of this chapter.
      SANATORIUM. See MEDICAL FACILITY.
      SANITARY SEWER. A municipal or community sewage disposal system of a type
approved by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
      SCHOOL, PRIVATE. An institution of learning that is not tax supported,
including colleges and universities.
      SCHOOL, PUBLIC. A tax-supported institution of learning, including
colleges and universities.
      SELF-SERVICE LAUNDRY. A laundry providing home-type washing, drying, and
ironing machines for hire to be used primarily by the customers on the
premises.
      SIGN. See §§
155.270 through
155.280.
      SOD FARMS. An establishment engaged in the growing of turf grass for
ultimate harvesting and sale.
      SORORITY. See FRATERNITY.
      STORY. The portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if
there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it (per Building Code as adopted).
      STORY, HALF. A story under a gable, hip, or gambrel roof, the wall plates
of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than two feet
above such story (per Building Code as adopted).
      STREAM. An area subject to constant, periodic, or occasional inundation.
      STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal
means of access to abutting property.
      STREET GRADE. The officially established grade of the street upon which a
lot fronts or in its absence the established grade of other streets upon which
the lot abuts, at the midpoint of the frontage of the lot thereon. If there is
no officially established grade, the existing grade of the street at such
midpoint shall be taken as the STREET GRADE.
      STREET, INTERSECTING. Any street which joins another street at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other.
      STREET LINE. The legal line between street right-of-way and abutting
property.
      STRUCTURE. A combination of materials to form a construction that is safe
and stable and includes, but is not limited to, the following: stadiums,
platforms, radio and television antenna towers, permanent satellite dish
antennas, and the appurtenant mounting apparatus, sheds, storage bins, fences,
and display signs.
      TAX INCREMENTAL FINANCIAL DISTRICT. As defined by state law.
      TEMPORARY TRAILER PARKS OR CAMPGROUNDS. A tract of land within any non-
residential or general agricultural district whereupon travel or camping
trailer, as defined under “trailer, travel or camping,” or any tent, a
temporary use permit may be issued for a period not to exceed 30 days.
      THEATER, MOVING PICTURE. A building or part of a building devoted to the
showing of moving pictures on a paid admission basis.
      THEATER, OUTDOOR DRIVE-IN. An open lot or part thereof, with its
appurtenant facilities, devoted primarily to the showing of moving pictures or
theatrical productions on a paid admission basis to patrons seated in
automobiles or on outdoor seats.
      TOURIST CABIN. See HOTEL/MOTEL.
      TOURIST COURT. See HOTEL/MOTEL.
      TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which sleeping accommodations in not more
than four rooms are provided or offered for transient guests for compensation.
      TRAILER. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
      TRAILER COURT. See MANUFACTURED HOME COURT.
      TRAILER, HAULING. A vehicle which is designed for hauling animals,
produce, goods, or commodities, including boats, said vehicle to be pulled
behind an automobile or truck.
      TRAILER, TRAVEL OR CAMPING. A portable or mobile living unit used for
temporary human occupancy away from the place of residence of the occupants,
and not constituting the principal place of residence of the occupants.
      USE. The specific purpose for which land or a building is designed,
arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. The
term “permitted use” or its equivalent shall not be deemed to include any
nonconforming use.
      UTILITIES. Municipal and franchised utilities.
      UTILITY FACILITY, NEIGHBORHOOD. Telephone, electric, and cable television
lines, poles, and equipment; water or gas pipes, mains, and valves; sewer pipes
and valves; lift stations; telephone exchanges and repeaters; and all other
facilities and equipment necessary for conducting a service by a government or
a public utility excluding yards and outdoor facilities that do not exceed 150
square feet of area.
      UTILITY FACILITIES, PUBLIC. See UTILITY FACILITIES, NEIGHBORHOOD. The
definition is the same as the neighborhood except that yards and outdoor
facilities that exceed 150 square feet of area are allowable.
      VARIANCE. An officially approved exception to the strict interpretation
of this chapter’s requirements and regulations as set forth. An approved
VARIANCE is a vested property right that runs with the land.
      VEHICLE, INOPERABLE. A vehicle which has one or more major components
missing or severely damaged for a period of 24 hours or more. Major components
include: wheels, windshields, engine, transmission, and major body parts, such
as the doors, hood, trunk, roof, and quarter panels.
      WALKWAY. A hard surface path or area for pedestrians to include sidewalks
with a minimum width of 48 inches.
      WAY. A street or alley or other thoroughfare or easement permanently
established for passage of persons or vehicles.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). An aggregation of parts including
the base, tower, generator, rotor, blades, supports, guy wires, and accessory
equipment such as utility interconnections, battery banks, and the like in such
a configuration as necessary to convert the power of wind into mechanical or
electrical energy. WECS are also known as wind chargers, windmills, or wind
turbines.
      YARD. An open space between a building and the lot lines, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except where
otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, that building or structure may
be located in a portion of a YARD required for a main building. In measuring a
YARD for the purpose of determining the width of the side yard, the depth of a
front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the shortest horizontal distance
between the lot line and the main building shall be used.
      YARD, FRONT. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main
building extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street
line and the front line of the building projected to the side line of the lot.
The depth of the FRONT YARD shall be measured between the front line of the
building and the street line.
      YARD, REAR. An open (other than for permitted accessory structures) space
on the same lot with the principal building between the rear line of the
building and the rear line of the lot and extending the full width of the lot.
      YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building,
situated between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from
the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line not a rear line or a front line
shall be deemed a side line.
      ZONING DISTRICT. See DISTRICT.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, Ch. 2.04; Ord. passed 2-16-2017)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAPS
§ 155.020 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals,
convenience, and the general welfare of the community, the city is divided into
districts of seven different types, each type being of such number, shape,
kind, and area, and such common unity of purpose, and adaptability of use that
are deemed most suitable to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   The types of districts are as follows. The city is hereby divided into
districts of seven different types, each being of such number, shape, kind, and
area, and being of such common unity of purpose and adaptability of use as are
deemed most suitable to carry out the purpose of this chapter:
      (1)   AG Agricultural;
      (2)   R-1 Single-Family Residential;
      (3)   R-2 One- and Two-Family Residential;
      (4)   R-3 Multi-Family Residential;
      (5)   C-1 General Commercial;
      (6)   GI General Industrial; and
      (7)   PD Planned Development.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.06.010; Ord. passed 2-16-2017)
§ 155.021 ZONING MAP.
   The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established by this
chapter are illustrated by the map entitled “the Zoning Map of Summerset, South
Dakota,” adopted, and from time to time amended together with this chapter. The
zoning map is hereby incorporated into this chapter as is fully set forth, and
from time to time amended as necessary and described herein. The zoning map and
description of the area shall be kept, maintained, and displayed at an
appropriate location in City Hall.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.06.020)
§ 155.022 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the precise location of any of the
aforesaid districts shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following streets,
highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow the centerlines of such
streets, highways, or alleys.
   (B)   For boundaries shown as following or approximately following platted
lot lines or other property lines, such lines shall be construed to be the
boundary lines.
   (C)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following railroad
lines shall be construed to lie midway between the main tracks of such railroad
lines.
   (D)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following the
centerline of streams, rivers, or other continuously flowing watercourses shall
be construed as following the channel centerline of such watercourses and the
boundaries shall be deemed to be at the limit of the jurisdiction of the city
unless otherwise indicated.
   (E)   Boundaries shown as following or closely following the limits of the
city shall be construed as following such limits.
   (F)   Where the application of the aforesaid rules leaves a reasonable doubt
as to the boundaries between two districts; the regulations of the more
restrictive district shall govern the entire parcel in question, unless
otherwise determined by the Board of Commissioners.
   (G)   Whenever any street, alley, or other public easement is vacated, the
district classification of the property to which the vacated portions of land
accrue shall become the classification of the vacated land.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.06.030)
§ 155.023 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations applying to each district include specific limitation on the
use of land and structure, height, and bulk of structures, density of
population, lot area, yard dimension, and area of lot that can be covered by
structures.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.06.040)
§ 155.024 SIGNS.
   Any sign posting requirement in this chapter or state law in connection with
providing notice concerning either the establishment of a zoning district, or
the rezoning of an existing district, shall be satisfied for notice purposes
provided the sign posted is no smaller than 18 inches by 18 inches.
(Ord. 2.01C, passed 6-4-2015)
AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 155.035 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This district is intended to provide for land situated on the fringe of the
urban area that is used for agricultural purposes, but will be undergoing
urbanization in the future. Most of these areas will be in close proximity to
residential and commercial uses and therefore the agricultural activities
conducted in this district should not be detrimental to urban land uses. It is
not intended that this district provide a location for a lower standard of
residential, commercial, or industrial development than is authorized in other
districts. The types of uses, area, and intensity of use of land which is
authorized in this district is designed to encourage and protect agricultural
uses until urbanization is warranted and the appropriate change in district
classification is made.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.08.010)
§ 155.036 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and structures in the AG Agricultural District shall be used only
for the following purposes:
   (A)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing,
horticulture, viticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop
harvesting including roadside stands exclusively for the sale of produce, but
excluding commercial feed lots;
   (B)   Detached single-family dwellings;
   (C)   Transportation and utility easements, alleys, and rights-of-way;
   (D)   Signs;
   (E)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses
when located on the same lot;
   (F)   Veterinary clinics, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Confinement pens for large animals and outdoor runs for small
animals shall maintain a minimum setback of 80 inches from all property lines;
      (2)   The clinic facility shall be constructed and operated in such a
manner as to minimize the transmission of sound to neighboring properties; and
      (3)   Fenced outdoor runs and exercise areas shall be used only during
normal business hours and shall be screened to a height of eight feet.
   (G)   Home occupations; and
   (H)   Home day care.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.08.020)
§ 155.037 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions of §§
155.335 through
155.341 relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the Planning and
Zoning Board may permit as permitted conditional uses:
   (A)   Wind energy conversion systems as regulated in §§
155.215 through
155.229;
   (B)   Elementary, middle, or high school, subject to one of the principal
frontages of the premises shall abut upon an arterial or collector street;
   (C)   Radio, television, and cellular communication tower, subject to a
minimum distance of 300 feet from the telecommunications tower to any
residentially zoned or used property measured from the base of the
telecommunications tower to the property line;
   (D)   Cemetery;
   (E)   Kennel;
   (F)   Stable, public;
   (G)   Family day care or a day care center; and,
   (H)   Public parks and/or playgrounds.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.08.030)
§ 155.038 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All setbacks shall be measured from the owner’s property lines as follows:
   (A)   Front setback. All structures: 25 feet;
   (B)   Side setback.
      (1)   Primary uses: eight feet;
      (2)   Corner lots: two front setbacks and two side setbacks;
      (3)   Unattached buildings of accessory use located on interior lots:
five feet; and
      (4)   Portable accessory building: two feet.
   (C)   Rear setback.
      (1)   Primary uses: 25 feet;
      (2)   Unattached buildings of accessory use: five feet; and
      (3)   Portable accessory building: two feet.
   (D)   Lot width. Minimum 75 feet at the front building line;
   (E)   Minimum lot size. Twenty acres; and
   (F)   Maximum lot coverage. Ten percent.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.08.040)
§ 155.039 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Structures shall not exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.08.050)
§ 155.040 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Development within the Agricultural District (AG) shall be regulated in
conformance with the provisions of §§
155.175 through
155.183,
155.255 through
155.257,
155.270 through
155.280, and
155.295 through
155.304.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.08.060)
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.055 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This district is intended to be used for single-family residential
development with low population densities and such supportive community
facilities as parks, playgrounds, schools, libraries, and churches normally
required to provide the basic elements of a balanced and attractive residential
area. It is intended that this district provide protection for those areas
existing as, or planned for, single-family neighborhoods.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.10.010)
§ 155.056 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an R-1 District shall be used only for the
following purposes:
   (A)   Detached single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Utility facility, neighborhood, transportation, and utility easements,
alleys, and rights-of-way;
   (C)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above uses
when located on the same lot;
   (D)   Signs;
   (E)   Home day care; and
   (F)   Home occupation.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.10.020)
§ 155.057 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions of §§
155.335 through
155.341 relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the Planning and
Zoning Board may permit as permitted conditional uses:
   (A)   Assisted living center which contains not more than 12 units;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast facility;
   (C)   Boarding houses and rooming houses;
   (D)   Cemeteries;
   (E)   Places of worship;
   (F)   Colleges and universities;
   (G)   Convalescent, nursing, and rest homes;
   (H)   Day care, family;
   (I)   Group home;
   (J)   Golf courses and country clubs;
   (K)   Governmental services;
   (L)   Public recreational and park facilities;
   (M)   Radio, television, and telecommunication or wireless communication
towers;
   (N)   Utility facility, public;
   (O)   Elementary, middle, and high schools, public or private; and
   (P)   Other uses may be allowed, provided they are not found to be contrary
to intended uses of the district.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.10.030)
§ 155.058 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All setbacks shall be measured from the owner’s property line as follows:
   (A)   Front setback. All structures: 25 feet;
   (B)   Side setback.
      (1)   All structures: eight feet; and
      (2)   Exception for portable accessory buildings: two feet.
   (C)   Rear setback.
      (1)   Primary uses: 25 feet;
      (2)   (a)   Unattached buildings of accessory use: eight feet; and
         (b)   Exception for portable accessory buildings: two feet.
   (D)   Lot width. There shall be a minimum lot width of 75 feet at the front
building line;
   (E)   Minimum lot size. Eight thousand and five hundred square feet; for any
non-residential use and their accessory buildings, 30,000 square feet; and
   (F)   Maximum lot coverage. Thirty five percent.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.10.040; Ord. passed 2-16-2017)
§ 155.059 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Principal structures shall not exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
Accessory structures shall not exceed 15 feet.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.10.050)
§ 155.060 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Development within the Single-Family Residential District (R-1) shall be
regulated in conformance with the provisions of §§
155.175 through
155.183,
155.255 through
155.257,
155.270 through
155.280, and
155.295 through
155.304.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.10.060)
R-2 ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.075 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This is a residential district to provide for medium population density. The
principal uses of land is for single-family and two-family residential uses and
such supportive community facilities as parks, playgrounds, schools, libraries,
and churches normally required to provide the basic elements of a balanced and
attractive residential area. It is intended that this district provide
protection for those areas existing as, or planned for, single-family
neighborhoods.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.12.010)
§ 155.076 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an R-2 Residential District shall be used only for
the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted in an R-1 Single-Family Residential District;
   (B)   Two-family dwelling; and
   (C)   Townhouses.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.12.020)
§ 155.077 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions of §§
155.335 through
155.341 relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the Planning and
Zoning Board may permit as permitted conditional uses any conditional uses in
and subject to all the same requirements as in an R-1 district.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.12.030)
§ 155.078 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All setbacks shall be measured from the owner’s property line as follows:
   (A)   Front setback. All structures: 25 feet;
   (B)   Side setback.
      (1)   All structures: eight feet;
      (2)   Unattached buildings of accessory use: eight feet; and
      (3)   Portable accessory building: two feet.
   (C)   Rear setback.
      (1)   Primary uses: 25 feet;
      (2)   Unattached buildings of accessory use: eight feet; and
      (3)   Portable accessory building: two feet.
   (D)   Lot width. There shall be a minimum lot width of 65 feet at the front
building line, except for townhouses which shall a minimum of 35 feet at the
front building line.
   (E)   Minimum lot size.
      (1)   For each single-family dwelling, served by a sanitary sewer system,
there shall be a lot area of not less than 7,000 square feet;
      (2)   For each two-family dwelling, there shall be a lot area of not less
than 9,500 square feet;
      (3)   For townhouse and assisted living structures, there shall be a lot
area of not less than 4,500 square feet plus an additional 2,500 square feet
for each townhouse unit which shall not exceed two units or assisted living
unit; and
      (4)   For places of worship and other main and accessory buildings and
their accessory buildings, 30,000 square feet.
   (F)   Maximum lot coverage. Forty percent.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.12.040; Ord. passed 2-16-2017)
§ 155.079 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Dwellings shall not exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet. Accessory
structures shall not exceed 15 feet.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.12.050)
§ 155.080 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Development within the One- and Two-Family Residential District (R-2) shall
be regulated in conformance with the provisions of §§
155.175 through
155.183,
155.255 through
155.257,
155.270 through
155.280, and
155.295 through
155.304.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.12.060)
R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.095 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This residential district is intended to promote and encourage the
establishment and maintenance of a suitable environment for urban residence in
areas appropriate by location and character for occupancy by high-density,
multiple-family dwellings. One of the important purposes of this district is to
create adequate standards of residential development in order to prevent
overcrowded and unhealthy housing conditions.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.14.010)
§ 155.096 USES PERMITTED.
   Property and buildings in an R-3 Multi-Family Residential District shall be
used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted and as regulated in R-1 and R-2 Districts; and
   (B)   Multi-family dwelling units.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.14.020)
§ 155.097 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions of §§
155.335 through
155.341 relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the Planning and
Zoning Board may permit as permitted conditional uses:
   (A)   Any conditional uses in and subject to all the same requirements as in
any R-1 and R-2 districts; and
   (B)   Manufactured home parks.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.14.030)
§ 155.098 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All setbacks shall be measured from the owner’s property lines as follows:
   (A)   Front setback.
      (1)   Twenty-five feet for single-family, two-family, and multi-family
dwellings not exceeding two and one-half stories;
      (2)   Thirty-five feet for multiple-family dwellings more than two and
one-half stories;
      (3)   Unattached buildings of accessory use: 25 feet; and
      (4)   Places of worship and their accessory buildings: 35 feet.
   (B)   Side setback.
      (1)   Single- and two-family residential dwellings: eight feet;
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings: 12 feet;
      (3)   For each additional story above two stories: one foot additional
side setback;
      (4)   Unattached buildings of accessory use: eight feet; and
      (5)   Places of worship and their accessory buildings: 35 feet.
   (C)   Rear setback.
      (1)   Primary uses of two stories in height and less: 25 feet; and
      (2)   For all primary uses of three stories and more in height: 30 feet.
   (D)   Lot width.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum lot width of 65 feet at the front building
line, except for townhouses and multi-family dwellings; and
      (2)   There shall be a minimum lot width of 75 feet at the front building
line for all other dwellings except townhouses.
   (E)   Minimum lot size.
      (1)   For each single-family dwelling, there shall be a lot area of not
less than 7,000 square feet;
      (2)   For each two-family dwelling, there shall be a lot area of not less
than 9,500 square feet;
      (3)   For multi-family structures, townhouses, and assisted living
structures, there shall be a lot area of not less than 4,500 square feet plus
an additional 2,500 square feet for each dwelling unit or assisted living unit;
and
      (4)   For places of worship and other main and accessory buildings their
accessory buildings: 30,000 square feet.
   (F)   Maximum lot coverage. Thirty percent.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.14.040)
§ 155.099 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   There shall be a maximum of five stories or 60 feet, and a maximum 15 feet
for unattached accessory buildings.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.14.050)
§ 155.100 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Development within the Multi-Family Residential District (R-3) shall be
regulated in conformance with the provisions of §§
155.175 through
155.183,
155.255 through
155.257,
155.270 through
155.280, and
155.295 through
155.304.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.14.060)
§ 155.101 USEABLE OPEN SPACE.
   For all multi-family uses of land, useable open space shall be provided as
follows.
 
Dwelling Height Open Space per Dwelling Unit
Two-story            400 square feet
Three- to five-story 300 square feet
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.14.070)
§ 155.102 REQUIRED PLAY AREA.
   (A)   For all multi-family uses of land, a designated and defined play area
for children shall be provided, based on the formula of 50 square feet per
dwelling unit.
   (B)   Square footage of the play area shall be computed as part of usable
open space.
   (C)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to multi-family
developments exclusively restricted to the elderly.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.14.080)
C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.115 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   This Commercial District is for personal and business services and the
city’s general retail business.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.18.010)
§ 155.116 USES PERMITTED.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the C-1 General Commercial
District:
   (A)   Retail establishments, including incidental manufacturing of goods for
sale at wholesale or retail on the premises, provided there are three or less
employees engaged in the manufacture of the product;
   (B)   Eating and drinking establishments;
   (C)   Service and repair establishments;
   (D)   Personal service establishments;
   (E)   Hotel, motel, rooming and boarding house, bed and breakfast;
   (F)   Entertainment services;
   (G)   Parking lots and garages;
   (H)   Offices;
   (I)   Financial institutions;
   (J)   Private clubs and lodges;
   (K)   Newspaper and printing firms;
   (L)   Residential uses subject to the requirements and regulations of §§
155.055 through
155.060,
155.075 through
155.080, and
155.095 through
155.102;
   (M)   Places of worship;
   (N)   Signs;
   (O)   Libraries, museums, art galleries, planetarium, aquariums, historic
and monument sites;
   (P)   Governmental services;
   (Q)   Gasoline, diesel, propane, and CNG service stations;
   (R)   Building material sales;
   (S)   Garden centers, greenhouses, and nurseries;
   (T)   New and used vehicle sales;
   (U)   Farm implement and machinery, new and used sales;
   (V)   Truck and trailer rental and sales;
   (W)   Monument sales;
   (X)   Sales of prefabricated houses;
   (Y)   Auction houses;
   (Z)   Manufactured home sales and services;
   (AA)   Taxidermists;
   (BB)   Open storage uses which shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   All open storage and display of merchandise, material, and
equipment shall be screened by a solid fence seven feet high at the side and
rear of the lot which abuts any residential district;
      (2)   Driveways used for ingress and egress shall not exceed 40 feet in
width, exclusive of curb returns; and
      (3)   Outdoor lighting, when provided, shall have an arrangement of
reflectors and an intensity of lighting which will not interfere with adjacent
land uses or the use of adjacent streets.
   (CC)   Small animal veterinary clinics, subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Outdoor runs shall maintain a minimum setback of 40 feet from all
property lines, and 100 feet from residential uses;
      (2)   The clinic facility shall be constructed and operated in such a
manner as to minimize the transmission of sound to neighboring properties; and
      (3)   Fenced outdoor runs and exercise areas shall be used only during
normal business hours, and shall be screened to a height of eight feet.
   (DD)   Inpatient and outpatient health care facilities and clinics;
   (EE)   Long-term care, congregate and assisted living facilities;
   (FF)   Educational facilities and institutions;
   (GG)   Light manufacturing and office park uses;
   (HH)   Public and private recreation facilities and their ancillary
services;
   (II)   Public and private transportation, neighborhood utility facility, and
public safety facilities;
   (JJ)   Agricultural uses; and
   (KK)   Parking lots and garages.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.18.020)
§ 155.117 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions of §§
155.240 through
155.242 relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the Planning and
Zoning Board may permit as permitted conditional uses:
   (A)   Video lottery;
   (B)   Radio, television, and telecommunication or wireless communication
towers;
   (C)   Day care center;
   (D)   Utility facility, public; and
   (E)   Other uses may be allowed, provided they are not found to be contrary
to intended uses of the district.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.18.030; Ord. passed 2-16-2017)
§ 155.118 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All setbacks shall be measured from the owner’s property lines as follows:
   (A)   Front setback. None;
   (B)   Side setback. None;
   (C)   Rear setback. None;
   (D)   Lot width. No minimum requirement;
   (E)   Minimum lot size. No minimum requirement; and
   (F)   Lot coverage. No maximum percentage of lot coverage except that, for
buildings serviced from the rear, space shall be provided either inside or
outside the building for loading or unloading goods and materials. Such space
shall have access to a street or other public way.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.18.040)
§ 155.119 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   There shall be a maximum of five stories or 60 feet.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.18.050)
§ 155.120 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Development within the General Commercial District (C-1) shall be regulated
in conformance with the provisions of §§
155.175 through
155.183,
155.255 through
155.257,
155.270 through
155.280, and
155.295 through
155.304.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.18.060)
GI GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.135 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   The General Industrial District (GI) is established to provide areas in
which the principal use of land is for light manufacturing and assembly plants,
processing, storage, warehousing, wholesaling, and distribution in which
operations are conducted so that noise, odor, dust, and glare are completely
confined within an enclosed building.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.22.010)
§ 155.136 USES PERMITTED.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the GI General Industrial District:
   (A)   Wholesale distributing companies, all commodities except live animals,
explosives, and junk;
   (B)   Assembling and packaging, freight handling, light manufacturing,
storage and warehousing, and similar operations;
   (C)   Factory outlet stores for the retail sale and showrooms for the
display of goods manufactured on-site;
   (D)   Service and research and development establishments;
   (E)   Contractor’s shop/storage yard;
   (F)   Mini storage facility;
   (G)   Utility facility, public, and neighborhood;
   (H)   Signs;
   (I)   Motor vehicle repair, provided that all body and/or mechanical repair
work shall be completed within the building area. All inoperable vehicles shall
be stored within a building or within a side or rear yard which is screened
with an opaque fence at least six feet in height;
   (J)   Carwashes;
   (K)   Bus garaging and equipment maintenance;
   (L)   Veterinary establishments and kennels;
   (M)   Farm and contractor implement sales, display, and service;
   (N)   Farm store or feed store;
   (O)   Manufactured home sales and services; and
   (P)   Accessory uses and buildings. Any accessory building shall be located
on the same lot with the principal building.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.22.020)
§ 155.137 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions of §§
155.335 through
155.341 relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the Planning and
Zoning Board may permit as permitted conditional uses:
   (A)   Stockyards/slaughtering of animals;
   (B)   Processing of minerals, rendering, or refining any organic or
inorganic material, explosive manufacture storage, grain and forage processing
and handling, alcohol or ethanol plant, or similar products or processes;
   (C)   Ready-mix concrete plant;
   (D)   Asphalt concrete plant;
   (E)   Solid waste transfer facility;
   (F)   Recycling processing facility;
   (G)   Junkyard or salvage yard;
   (H)   Landfill; and
   (I)   Other uses may be allowed, provided they are not found to be contrary
to intended uses of the district.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.22.030; Ord. passed 2-16-2017)
§ 155.138 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All setbacks shall be measured from the owner’s property lines as follows:
   (A)   Front setback. Twenty five feet. Buildings with sidewalls over 20 feet
shall have a 40-foot front setback;
   (B)   Side setback. Twenty five feet;
   (C)   Rear setback. Twenty five feet;
   (D)   Minimum lot width. One hundred feet, except in cul-de-sac areas;
   (E)   Minimum lot size. Fifteen thousand square feet; and
   (F)   Maximum lot coverage. Seventy five percent.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.22.040)
§ 155.139 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   There shall be a maximum of five stories or 60 feet.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.22.050)
§ 155.140 PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No loading dock shall be constructed facing any public street unless
it is constructed a minimum of 80 feet from the property line.
   (B)   All loading, unloading, and maneuvering operations shall be off-
street. No loading or unloading shall be permitted which will interfere with
ingress or egress thereto. Driveways and access roads to loading or unloading
facilities shall be paved at least as far as the defined setback area.
   (C)   Paved surface areas are required. All parking areas and loading and
unloading areas shall be hard-surfaced.
   (D)   All provisions of §§
155.255 through
155.257 shall be met.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.22.060)
§ 155.141 SCREENING.
   (A)   All provisions of §§
155.295 through
155.304 shall be met.
   (B)   There shall be no open storage of material, equipment, or products
unless behind an opaque screen which is not less than the height necessary to
completely screen the use. All fencing or screening shall be aesthetically
compatible with the building design and shall be of an all-wood material, or
vinyl, or masonry, or concrete in the case of walls, or all-metal construction
for security fences. No security fence or screen shall be permitted to extend
closer to the street than the building setback line. All fences and screening
shall be maintained in good condition and, in the case of walls, shall be
properly painted. Short-term storage of 48 hours or less shall be allowed in
any areas adjacent to buildings. If scrap storage is necessary, the same shall
be on a concrete pad and completely screened from view. No storage shall be
permitted, even if conforming with the requirements of this division (B), if
the same shall create a health hazard for occupants of adjacent properties or
to the public.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.22.070)
§ 155.142 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Development within the General Industrial District (GI) shall be regulated
in conformance with the provisions of §§
155.175 through
155.183,
155.255 through
155.257,
155.270 through
155.280, and
155.295 through
155.304.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.22.080)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 155.155 GENERAL DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   The purpose of the Planned Development District (PD) is to allow
development of undeveloped parcels of land that, by virtue of their visually
and/or environmentally unique location, lend themselves to a blend of diverse
yet compatible uses, innovative layouts, or sensitive designs.
   (B)   Development of such parcels shall be accomplished while meeting public
requirements, including preservation, promotion, and protection of open space,
scenic vistas, and natural resources, by the application of extra
administrative controls.
   (C)   All final plans in the Planned Development District shall be
recommended by the Planning and Zoning Board and approved by the Board of
Commissioners under the procedure set forth in §
155.159. Final approval by the Board of Commissioners is deemed to be an
administrative act not subject to referendum.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.24.010)
§ 155.156 USES PERMITTED.
   Unless expressly prohibited in §
155.157, the following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Any permitted and conditional use in the AG-Agricultural District;
   (B)   Any permitted and conditional use in the R-1 Single-Family
Residential, R-2 One- and Two- Family Residential, and R-3 Multi-Family
Residential Districts; and
   (C)   Any permitted and conditional use in the C-1 General Commercial
District.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.24.020)
§ 155.157 USED PROHIBITED.
   The following uses are prohibited:
   (A)   New and used vehicle or machinery sales and service;
   (B)   Manufactured home sales;
   (C)   Building material sales;
   (D)   Truck terminals, stand-alone warehouse facilities;
   (E)   Use requiring unscreened outside storage;
   (F)   Industrial uses; and
   (G)   Off-premises signs unless already located on the property.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.24.030)
§ 155.158 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS AND DESIGN.
   (A)   General. Minimum requirements for improvements and design are not
subject to modification by the procedure outlined in §
155.159. Projects that exceed the minimum requirements are encouraged.
   (B)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front, side, and rear setbacks and lot width and size are governed
by the minimum requirements for parking and open space as described per
divisions (C) and (F) below.
      (2)   Height restrictions are as follows:
         (a)   Commercial uses: five stories or 60 feet;
         (b)   Residential uses: five stories or 60 feet; and
         (c)   All other uses: five stories or 60 feet.
   (C)   Parking. For individual uses or approved as a comprehensive parking
plan for integrated uses or for the overall development.
   (D)   Lighting. All lighting shall be fully shielded, 85% full cut-off
fixtures.
   (E)   Signs. As regulated for individual uses, or approved as a
comprehensive signage plan for the overall development when evaluated as a
whole, all illuminated signage shall be down-lighted or back-lighted;
   (F)   Open space.
      (1)   Common open space. A minimum total area of 10% of the land included
in the application shall be comprised of common open space, which shall be used
for amenity or active or passive recreational use. Open space containing
natural features may be left unimproved. Designated amenities including parks,
playgrounds, and the like shall be installed immediately or bonded.
      (2)   Individual lot open space. Commercial: 20%; all other uses: 30%.
   (G)   Landscaping.
      (1)   Each application shall include a comprehensive landscaping plan
showing the location and species of all plant materials and an irrigation plan,
meeting the minimum requirements of the §§
155.295 through
155.304.
      (2)   Additional requirements in the form of berms, open yard buffer
areas, landscape islands, and live and/or constructed screening are encouraged
and may be imposed as conditions of landscape plan approval.
   (H)   Transportation system. Each application shall include a transportation
plan showing points of ingress and egress, circulation pattern, and integration
with the system to which it relates.
      (1)   All streets, sidewalks, pedestrian ways, and rights-of-way to be
dedicated to the city shall conform to the minimum requirements of the
regulations of the city’s ordinances, as adopted and in effect when the plan is
approved.
      (2)   All streets, sidewalks, pedestrian ways, and rights-of-way to
remain private shall be subject to approval as part of the overall development
plan.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.24.040)
§ 155.159 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Initial development plan. When a petitioner wants to request rezoning
to the Planned Development District, he or she shall submit his or her request
to the Planning Department, showing the information specified in §
155.160, a minimum of 20 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting at which
consideration is desired. After the planned development request has been
reviewed, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners on the requested rezoning. The Board of Commissioners shall then
act to approve or deny said request. This request for rezoning is subject to
the requirements for amendment of the ordinance specified in §
155.358. No building permit shall be issued within the development until the
final development plan is approved and the plat is filed.
   (B)   Final development plan.
      (1)   Prior to construction on any lots in the planned development, the
petitioner shall present a final development plan showing the information
specified in §
155.161 below to the Planning Commission, who shall make a recommendation to
the Board of Commissioners on the requested rezoning. The Board of
Commissioners shall then act to approve or deny said request. This request for
rezoning is subject to the requirements for amendment of §
155.358.
      (2)   The final development plan may be submitted in conjunction with the
initial development plan for concurrent approval on any subareas the developer
is ready to commit to a final plan. All the information required for both an
initial and final development plan must be shown for the area submitted for
concurrent approval, except that the developer may reference the requirements
of one of the traditional zoning districts as the development standard for a
particular subarea.
      (3)   Signs shall be posted on the property for a continuous period of
seven days immediately prior to any public hearing held by the Planning
Commission or Board of Commissioners to consider any final development plan.
Said signs shall be furnished by the city and posted by the applicant in the
numbers and locations prescribed by the Administrator.
   (C)   Amendments.
      (1)   Major amendments. Major amendments to the initial and/or final
development plan shall be required to be approved with a public hearing in the
same manner as provided for in §
155.357.
      (2)   Minor amendments.
         (a)   Minor amendments to the initial and/or final development plan
shall be required to be approved by the Planning Commission. Notice of such
hearing shall be given by the posting of not less than four signs provided by
the city.
         (b)   Minor amendments to the initial development plan may also be
made by the submission and approval of a final development plan which is
changed from the approved initial development plan. Any such amendments shall
be shown as a change from the initial development plan on the final development
plan.
      (3)   Minimal amendments. Minimal amendments to the final development
plan shall be submitted to the Administrator on a reproducible development plan
showing the requested changes. The Planning Director may then approve such
change in writing if she or he deems it appropriate.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.24.050)
§ 155.160 INITIAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Upon application for rezoning to Planned Development District, the
petitioner shall present an initial development plan to the Planning Commission
for review and to the Board of Commissioners for its approval showing the
following information:
   (A)   Project name and legal description;
   (B)   A preliminary subdivision plan in compliance with
Chapter 151; and
   (C)   (1)   The proposed development scheme showing the following
information:
         (a)   The proposed land uses, including the number and type of
proposed residential buildings, the proposed number of dwelling units per
building, the number and type of any proposed non-residential buildings, and
their square footage;
         (b)   The proposed maximum density of the development, which shall not
exceed the density allowed in the traditional zoning districts for similar
uses, except where unique physical, environmental, or design characteristics
make such densities undesirable;
         (c)   The proposed minimum setbacks which shall be no less than those
required in the traditional zoning districts for similar uses, except where
unique physical, environmental, or design characteristics make such setbacks
undesirable;
         (d)   The proposed maximum height which shall be no greater than that
required in the traditional zoning districts for similar uses, except where
unique physical, environmental, or design characteristics make such heights
undesirable;
         (e)   Proposed design features illustrating compatibility to the
surrounding environment and neighborhood; and
         (f)   Anticipated subarea development sequence.
      (2)   In addition, the developer shall provide an eight and one-half by
11-inch scaled rendering on Mylar of the approved initial development plan
showing each of the subareas.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.24.060)
§ 155.161 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Prior to construction on any lots in the Planned Development Zoning
District, the petitioner shall present a final development plan to the Planning
Commission for review, and to the Board of Commissioners for its approval
showing the following information:
   (B)   (1)   Final development plan approval shall expire one year from the
date upon which it becomes effective if no work has commenced. Upon written
request to the Administrator and prior to the final development plan approval
expiration date, a time extension for the final development plan approval may
be granted.
      (2)   The final development plan shall show the following information:
         (a)   The subdivision name, the legal description, and the individual
project name (if any);
         (b)   Boundaries of the subarea or subareas submitted for approval
superimposed on the map of the initial development plan;
         (c)   A subdivision plat of the subarea or subareas submitted for
approval in compliance with
Chapter 151; and
         (d)   A scale drawing showing the following information will be
required:
            1.   Size and location of proposed structures including height and
number of units;
            2.   Calculated floor area for each structure and a generic listing
of the uses within said structure;
            3.   Off-street parking lot arrangement designating all parking
spaces, off-street loading spaces, and any outdoor trash container;
            4.   Any sidewalks, bikeways, or other paths;
            5.   Any outdoor lighting, type, and location, except for standard
street lights provided by the city;
            6.   Landscaping plans showing the type and location of any walls
or fences, the placement, size, and species of any trees or shrubs, and berms
in areas that will be sod or seeded;
            7.   All existing and proposed utilities, drainage ways,
watercourses, and location of above ground existing utilities on adjacent
property;
            8.   Proposed final ground contours;
            9.   Curb cuts and all private drives;
            10.   Adjacent, existing, and proposed uses;
            11.   First floor elevation for any structure located in a flood
hazard area;
            12.   Accurate building elevation of all proposed structures;
            13.   Documentation of the ownership and maintenance responsibility
of any common open spaces, structures, or facilities, including private
streets;
            14.   Any subareas proposed for multiple residential development
will be required to provide an open area for recreation. Said open spaces shall
not be included in any required yard, but shall be located in the same subarea
it is intended to serve;
            15.   Proposed parking and loading spaces which shall be in
conformance with §§
155.255 through
155.257, except where unique physical, environmental, or design characteristics
make such requirements undesirable; and
            16.   Unless otherwise specified on the final development plan, all
development standards shall be the same as those set forth in the traditional
zoning districts, which shall be referenced for each subarea as a part of the
final development plan. For example, townhouses on block X shall be developed
in conformance with the requirements of the R-1 Residential District.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.24.070)
§ 155.162 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Major amendments. The following changes in an initial and/or final
development plan are considered major amendments:
      (1)   Any change in the proposed land uses shall follow a rezoning
process; and
      (2)   An increase in density above that provided for in division (B)(5)
below shall follow a rezoning process.
   (B)   Minor amendments. The following changes in an initial and/or final
development plan are considered minor amendments:
      (1)   Any adjustment in the size or shape of the building envelope
(increasing the height or reducing the building setback);
      (2)   Any change in the number or location of curb cuts;
      (3)   Any decrease in the size of required open areas;
      (4)   A minor change in the street pattern;
      (5)   Any increase in density of a subarea:
         (a)   Less than 25% for a subarea with less than eight units;
         (b)   Less than 15% for a subarea with between nine and 20 units; and
         (c)   Less than 8% for a subarea with 21 units or more.
      (6)   Any change in the number of parking spaces;
      (7)   Any minor change to on-premises signage; and
      (8)   Any major change in the street pattern.
   (C)   Minimal amendments. The following changes in an initial and/or final
development plan are considered minimal amendments:
      (1)   Any adjustment of a building within a previously established
building envelope;
      (2)   A reduction in density and scale;
      (3)   Any minimal change in the street pattern;
      (4)   Any minimal change in the parking and loading requirements;
      (5)   Any minimal change to on-premises signage; and
      (6)   Any adjustment in the size or shape of the building envelope by
reducing the building setback by one foot or less.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.24.080)
ADDITIONAL USE, YARD, AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.175 GENERAL PERMITTED USES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The uses of land, buildings, and other structures permitted in
each of the districts established by this chapter are designated by listing the
principal uses permitted. If a use is not specifically listed in the permitted
use, said use is not a permitted use allowed in the district.
      (2)   In addition to such principal uses, there may be uses customarily
incidental to any principal use permitted in the district know as accessory
uses.
   (B)   In the commercial and industrial districts, more than one principal
use and structure may be allowed on a lot if all of the other regulations and
standards of this chapter are met. In any residential district, any single-
family attached dwelling, single-family detached dwelling, and two-family
dwelling shall be deemed to be the sole principal use on the lot on which it is
situated. In a multi-family residential district, more than one multi-family
dwelling building may be allowed if all of the other regulations and standards
of this title are met and the detailed site plan is approved by the Planning
and Zoning Board.
   (C)   (1)   No recorded lot shall be divided unless such division results in
the creation of lots, each of which conforms to all of the applicable
regulations of the district in which the property is located. No reduction in
the size of a recorded lot below the minimum requirements of this chapter shall
be permitted.
      (2)   There is an exception for changing the direction of interior lot
lines on adjoining lots adjacent to the corner of two streets which does not
result in a reduction of the square footage of either lot.
   (D)   Where there are existing recorded lots which do not meet the minimum
lot area requirement, single-family dwellings may be constructed as long as a
side yard shall be not less than four feet and the sum of the side yards shall
be not less than 12 feet and as long as all other requirements, except lot
size, are met.
   (E)   Where a permitted use of land involves no structures, such use,
excluding agricultural uses, shall nonetheless comply with all yards and
minimum lot area requirements applicable to the district in which located, as
well as obtain any other license or permit applicable to that particular use.
   (F)   A building permit may be issued for a structure having access from an
unimproved street, but in no case shall the structure be occupied until the
street has been improved and water and sewer has been installed to city
standards. Surety for said improvements shall be posted before the issuance of
the building permit.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.010)
§ 155.176 GENERAL ACCESSORY USE AND STRUCTURE PROVISIONS.
   Each permitted accessory use shall:
   (A)   Be customarily incidental to the principal use established on the same
lot;
   (B)   Be subordinate to and serve the principal use;
   (C)   Be subordinate in area, extent, and purpose to the principal use; and
   (D)   Contribute to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of users of such
principal use.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.020)
§ 155.177 PERMITTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Accessory uses shall be permitted as specified in §
155.176, and such accessory uses shall be applicable to the principal use and
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Dwellings.
      (1)   Private garage or carport used primarily for storage and which
shall not be used for commercial purposes. The maximum cumulative allowable
size of all garages or carports shall be 1,500 square feet or 30% of the size
of the gross floor area of the dwelling unit(s), whichever is greater. In no
event shall the size of the building footprint of the garage(s) or carport(s)
exceed the footprint of the dwelling unit(s). The garage(s) or carport(s) shall
be used only by persons residing on the premises. Any garage not meeting these
requirements shall be allowed only as a conditional use pursuant to §§
155.335 through
155.341;
      (2)   Children’s playhouse, playground equipment, and recreation
equipment used on the lot;
      (3)   Private greenhouse, vegetable, fruit or flower garden, garden
house, pergola, barbecue, or fireplace;
      (4)   Private tennis court, swimming pool, and bathhouse; and
      (5)   Shed for the storage. Any storage building larger than 200 square
feet shall be considered a private garage.
   (B)   Church, chapel, temple, or synagogue.
      (1)   Parish house or residence for the clergy of the congregation; and
      (2)   Religious education building.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.030)
§ 155.178 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are those secondary uses allowed on a premises in
conjunction with the following.
   (A)   The occupation must be conducted entirely within a dwelling unit or
within a private garage.
   (B)   The occupation must be clearly incidental and secondary to the
principal use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes.
   (C)   Only members of the immediate family residing on the premises may be
employed by or participate in the home occupation.
   (D)   The area set aside for a home occupation shall not exceed 20% of the
total floor area of the residence, including garages. The permissible floor
area includes that space necessary for storage of goods or products associated
with the home occupation.
   (E)   There can be no evidence other than the nameplate referred to in
division (F) below that will indicate from the exterior that the building is
being utilized in part for any purpose other than that of a dwelling.
   (F)   Home occupation signs as regulated in §§
155.270 through
155.280 are allowed on the premises.
   (G)   Such occupations shall not require substantial external alterations or
involve construction features not customary in a dwelling.
   (H)   Merchandise offered for sale shall be clearly incidental to the home
occupation.
   (I)   No toxic, explosive, flammable, combustible, corrosive, etiologic,
radioactive, or other restricted material shall be stored on site.
   (J)   Any process which will cause odor, dust, glare, noise, heat, or
vibration which would have a negative effect on adjacent properties would not
be allowed. No mechanical equipment other than that ordinarily utilized within
a dwelling unit for household or hobby purposes shall be permissible.
   (K)   No visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation shall be
visible from any public way or neighboring property except for one commercial
vehicle associated with the home occupation may be park on the premises.
   (L)   (1)   Public access to the home occupation shall be by invitation only
and there shall ordinarily be no more than one vehicle not owned by the
occupants on or adjacent to the property for business purposes except that
appointments may overlap for time period not exceeding 30 minutes.
      (2)   Occasional parties, meetings, or classes associated with home
occupations are permissible.
      (3)   The parties, meetings, or classes shall in no case be held more
than four times monthly and vehicles shall in no way impede the safety and flow
of traffic within the neighborhood. If the home occupation is the type in which
classes are held or instructions given, there shall be no more than four
students on the premises at any one time.
   (M)   Home occupations shall be restricted to the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 8:00
p.m.
   (N)   Any proposed home occupation which does not meet the criteria as
established in this section may be allowed as a conditional use and must follow
the requirements of §§
155.335 through
155.341.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.040)
§ 155.179 TEMPORARY USES.
   The following uses are deemed to be temporary uses and shall also be subject
to the specific regulations and time limits which follow and to the regulations
of any district in which such use is located.
   (A)   In any non-residential zoning district, a temporary use permit may be
issued for a seasonal greenhouse or garden shop, but such permit shall be
issued for a period of not longer than 90 days. Seasonal greenhouses and garden
shops are exempt from any maximum floor area requirement. Seasonal greenhouses
or garden shops shall conform to the clear sight triangle, setback, and parking
requirements this chapter.
   (B)   In any district, a temporary use permit may be issued for the display
and open-lot sales of Christmas trees, but such permit shall be issued for a
period of time commencing no earlier than November 1 and ending prior to
January 5 of the following year.
   (C)   In any district, a temporary use permit may be issued for a
contractor’s temporary office and equipment sheds incidental to a construction
project. Such office or shed shall not contain sleeping or cooking
accommodations. Such permit shall be valid for the duration of the construction
period. Such office or shed shall be removed upon completion of the
construction of the structure(s).
   (D)   A carnival, circus, or similar event is a temporary use. In any non-
residential district, a temporary use permit may be issued for a carnival,
circus, or tent but such permit shall be issued for a period not longer than 14
days.
   (E)   A farmer’s market, as defined in §
155.009, may be conducted in any non-residential zoning district, subject to
such conditions and limitations as the Board of Commissioners may direct in
designating such farmer’s market as a community activity.
   (F)   In any non-residential zoning district, a temporary use permit may be
issued to the operator of a ten-day temporary business in accordance with the
following provisions:
      (1)   A temporary use or structure may occupy a development lot for not
more than ten days and shall vacate the lot for a period of 180 days;
      (2)   All temporary structures shall contain approved toilet facilities
or shall have contracted with the owners of permanent toilet facilities within
300 feet for employee access to the facilities. Operations that include
prepared foods or beverages shall provide or have contracted for access to
approved toilet facilities by customers of the business;
      (3)   All temporary structures and displays shall be located outside of
clear sight triangles at streets, alleys, and driveways as per §
155.182;
      (4)   All temporary structures and displays shall be located outside of
the front yard setbacks;
      (5)   All temporary business operators shall provide a minimum of two
off-street parking spaces not associated with any other use; and
      (6)   Each temporary business may display one sign to advertise the
business. The sign shall be no larger than 25 square feet.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.050)
§ 155.180 FENCES.
   Regulations regarding fences shall be as follows.
   (A)   The regulation of fences is intended to protect the public safety and
welfare while maintaining the integrity of the community; providing privacy;
buffering noise; and allowing adequate air, light, and vision.
   (B)   A building permit is required for all fences except for fences located
in the Agricultural District.
   (C)   Fences not more than four feet in height may be located on any part of
the lot except that such a fence may not be more than 30% solid where it is
located within 30 feet of a street intersection, measuring along the property
lines and connecting these two points by a straight line.
   (D)   (1)   Fences not more than six feet in height may be erected on any
part of a lot other than in the required front yard except for fences located
in the Agricultural District which are exempt from the fence height
requirements.
      (2)   The following are exceptions.
         (a)   On double frontage and comer lots used residentially, fences not
more than six feet in height may be placed in one of the front yards, provided
that the fence is placed from the rear building line to rear property line or
portion thereof.
         (b)   The maximum fence height for golf courses, public swimming
pools, school track and field areas, parks, and ballparks shall be eight feet
on any portion of the lot. Fences associated with these uses shall not be more
than 30% solid.
         (c)   The maximum fence height for public tennis courts or basketball
courts shall be 12 feet and shall not be more than 30% solid on any portion of
the lot.
         (d)   In all commercial and industrial zoning districts, fences not
more than eight feet in height may be located on any part of a lot other than
the required front yard setback, except when such lot is adjacent to a
residential use.
   (E)   All boundary line fences shall be located entirely upon the private
property of the person, firm, or corporation constructing or causing the
construction of such fence unless the owner of the property adjoining agrees,
in writing, that such fence may be erected on the division line of the
respective properties. The Building Inspector or City Planner may require any
applicant for a fence permit to cause to establish the boundary lines of her or
his property by a survey thereof to be made by a registered land surveyor.
   (F)   (1)   Every fence shall be constructed in a substantial, workmanlike
manner and of substantial material reasonably suitable for the purpose for
which the fence is proposed to be used. Every fence shall be maintained in a
condition of reasonable repair and shall not be allowed to become and remain in
a condition of disrepair or danger, or constitute a nuisance, public or
private.
      (2)   Any such fence which is, or has become dangerous to the public
safety, health, or welfare, is a public nuisance, Code Enforcement is
authorized to commence proceedings for the abatement thereof.
      (3)   Link fences, wherever permitted, shall be constructed in such a
manner that the barbed end is at the bottom of the fence and the knuckle end is
at the top thereof.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.060; Ord. passed 2-16-2017; Ord. 2023-05, passed
6-15-2023)
§ 155.181 YARD AND BUILDING SETBACK EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements are intended to provide exceptions or
qualify and supplement, as the case may be, the specific district regulations
set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   No yard, open space, or lot area required for a building or structure
shall, during its life, be occupied by any other building or structure except:
      (1)   Overhanging roofs, eaves, gutters, cornices, decks, carports, or
any other architectural features up to three feet from the side property line;
      (2)   Non-enclosed driveways and parking spaces, curbs, sidewalks, steps,
and terraces;
      (3)   Open porches and decks may encroach ten feet into the front yard
setback, and 16 feet into the rear yard setback;
      (4)   Fences, walls, and hedges, subject to the regulations as set forth
in this section;
      (5)   Flagpoles and light poles;
      (6)   Garbage disposal equipment, non-permanent;
      (7)   Landscape features, planting boxes, mailboxes, and recreational
equipment;
      (8)   Parking spaces subject to the regulations set forth in §§
155.255 through
155.257;
      (9)   Signs, subject to the regulations set forth in §§
155.270 through
155.280;
      (10)   Trees, shrubs, flowers, and other plants subject to the sight
obstruction requirements in this section;
      (11)   Lots platted prior to adoption of this chapter may be developed
without a variance for minimum lot width at the front building line if all
other requirements are met;
      (12)   Buildings existing at the adoption of this chapter may, without a
variance, be extended along existing exterior lines so long as setback
requirements in the direction of the extension are met;
      (13)   Temporary, non-habitable buildings for uses incidental to
construction work, immediately adjacent to the work and which shall be removed
upon completion or abandonment of the work. Motor homes or campers are not
permitted; and
      (14)   Lots having frontage on more than one street shall provide the
required front yards along those streets.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.070)
§ 155.182 SIGHT TRIANGLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PEDESTRIAN SIGHT TRIANGLE. The area of visibility to allow for the safe
passage of a pedestrian.
      SIGHT TRIANGLE. The area of visibility required on a corner to allow for
the safe operation of vehicles, trains, pedestrians, and cyclists in the
proximity of intersecting streets, rail lines, sidewalks, and bicycle paths.
      SIGNALIZED INTERSECTION. An intersection with traffic controlled by an
automated traffic signal.
      STOP-CONTROLLED INTERSECTION. An intersection with traffic control stop
signs. The intersections of alleys, private roads, and driveways are considered
STOP-CONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS for the purpose of sight triangle requirements.
      UNCONTROLLED INTERSECTION. An intersection with no traffic control signs
including driveways.
      YIELD CONTROLLED INTERSECTION. An intersection with traffic control yield
signs.
   (B)   Restrictions.
      (1)   No obstructions to vision shall be allowed within the applicable
sight triangle(s). Any object shall be deemed as an obstruction if it is
located within any applicable sight triangle and the object is between two and
one-half feet and ten feet above the edge of the roadway except in the C-
1 Zoning District where the Public Works Director may waive these requirements.
      (2)   When more than one sight triangle applies to the same corner, all
applicable sight triangle requirements must be satisfied.
      (3)   Setback requirements found elsewhere in this code shall not be
decreased by this section.
   (C)   Point of measurement. All distance herein shall be measured from the
curb or, where there is no curb, from the end of the pavement or gravel, unless
otherwise specified.
   (D)   Uncontrolled intersections. Each uncontrolled intersection shall have
a sight triangle of 70 feet on each leg except the intersection of two alleys
may have a sight triangle of 25 feet on each leg.
   (E)   Stop-controlled intersections. Each stop-controlled intersection shall
have a sight triangle based on the speed limits of the adjoining accessways.
These distances are shown in the table in division (H)(1) below.
   (F)   Yield-controlled intersections. Each yield-controlled intersection
shall have a sight triangle of 70 feet on each leg.
   (G)   Signalized intersections. Signalized intersections should be
considered as stop-controlled for the purpose of sight triangle requirements.
   (H)   Pedestrian sight triangle.
      (1)   At intersecting sidewalks or bicycle paths, and at any intersection
of a sidewalk or bicycle path with a street, alley, or driveway, a ten-foot
pedestrian sight triangle shall be maintained. Pedestrian sight triangle legs
are to be measured from the intersecting edges of sidewalks or bicycle paths,
and the paved or unpaved edge of a street, alley, or driveway.
 
Operating Speed (mph)                 25  30  35  40    45    50
Distance (feet) Residential           300 375 470 580   700   840
                Commercial/Industrial 490 645 820 1,020 1,340 1,710
 
      (2)   Stop-controlled intersections shall be measured from 20 feet back
of the intersecting street (curb line or edge of pavement) on the centerline of
the drive lane to centerline of the drive lane in either direction.
      (3)   Modifications to these requirements may be made base on the current
standards of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials (AASHTO).
   (I)   Infrastructure design criteria. See the city’s infrastructure design
criteria in §§
155.075 through
155.080.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.080; Ord. passed 2-16-2017)
§ 155.183 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   The following structures or parts thereof are exempt from the height
limitations set forth in the zoning districts:
   (A)   Agricultural buildings: barn, silo, windmill, but not including
dwellings;
   (B)   Chimneys, smokestacks, penthouse, spires, flagpoles, ventilators,
skylights, derricks, conveyors, and cooling towers;
   (C)   Radio and television antennas and towers, observation towers, power
transmission towers, and cellular communication towers;
   (D)   Water tanks and standpipes; and
   (E)   Other similar and necessary mechanical appurtenances pertaining to and
necessary to the permitted uses of the districts in which they are located;
provided that they are not used for human occupancy.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.090)
OUTDOOR LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.195 INTENT.
   (A)   (1)   The intent of this subchapter is to focus on the actual physical
effects of lighting, as well as the effect that lighting may have on the
surrounding neighborhood. Exterior lighting shall be evaluated in the planned
development process to ensure that the functional and security needs of the
project are met in a way that does not adversely affect the adjacent properties
or neighborhoods.
      (2)   The degree to which exterior night lighting affects a property
owner or neighborhood will be examined considering the light source, level of
illumination, hours of illumination, and need for illumination in relation to
the effects of the lighting on adjacent property owners and the neighborhood.
   (B)   The purpose is to create standards for outdoor light so that its use
does not unreasonably interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of
property within the jurisdiction. It is the intent of this subchapter to
encourage, through regulation of types, kinds, construction, installation, and
uses of outdoor electrically powered illuminating devices, lighting practices
and systems which will conserve energy without decreasing nighttime safety,
utility, security, and productivity, while enhancing nighttime enjoyment of
property within the incorporated areas of the city.
   (C)   The intent of this section is to:
      (1)   Eliminate glare into neighboring property or street rights-of-way;
      (2)   Limit light trespass over a property line onto residential
property;
      (3)   Limit the maximum light level for buildings;
      (4)   Assure that lighting standards will be complied with prior to
building permit issuance; and
      (5)   Encourage community lighting practices that will promote personal
safety and crime prevention.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.100)
§ 155.196 CONFORMANCE WITH APPLICABLE CODES.
   All outdoor electrically powered illuminating devices shall be installed in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, the State Electrical Code, and
the city as applicable and under appropriate permit and inspection.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.100)
§ 155.197 APPLICABILITY.
   Whenever a person is required to obtain a zoning permit, electrical permit
for outdoor lighting or signage, a conditional use permit, subdivision
approval, or development plan approval by the city including all city projects,
or whenever a person requests a rezoning, the applicant shall, as part of said
application, submit sufficient information to enable the Zoning Administrator
to determine whether the proposed lighting will comply with this section.
   (A)   The application shall include the following:
      (1)   A site plan indicating the proposed location of all outdoor
lighting fixtures and signs;
      (2)   A description of each illumination device, fixture, lamp, support,
and shield. This description may include, but is not limited to, manufacturer’s
catalog cut-sheets and drawings (including sections where required), lamp
types, and lumen outputs;
      (3)   Photometric data, such as that furnished by manufacturers or
similar, showing the angle of cut-off of light emissions for the proposed
luminaire(s); and
      (4)   Such other information as the Zoning Administrator may determine is
necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that the proposed lighting does
not comply with this chapter, the permit shall not be issued or the plan
approved.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.100)
§ 155.198 APPROVED MATERIALS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION/
OPERATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter are not intended to prevent the use
of any design, material, or method of installation or operation not
specifically prescribed by this chapter, provided any such alternate has been
approved.
   (B)   The Building Official may approve any such proposed alternate
providing if found that it:
      (1)   Provides at least approximate equivalence to the applicable
specific requirements of this code;
      (2)   Is satisfactory and complies with the intent of this chapter; or
      (3)   Has been designed or approved by a registered professional engineer
and its content and function promotes the intent of this chapter.
         (a)   The maximum light level shall be no greater than three foot
candles field measured at the property line (ground level) for all non-
residential/multi-family properties located adjacent to residentially used or
zoned property.
         (b)   The maximum height of light luminaire when located within 150
feet of residentially used or zoned property shall be 25 feet above the parking
surface. All other light luminaires shall have a maximum height of 30 feet
above parking surface.
         (c)   Maximum on-site lighting levels shall not exceed ten foot
candles, except for loading and unloading platforms where the maximum lighting
levels shall be 20 foot candles.
         (d)   Canopy luminaires shall include a 90-degree cut-off type,
deflector, refractor, or forward throw light fixture. The maximum number of
canopy luminaires shall be determined by the following industry standard:
 
Canopy length (in feet) x canopy width (in feet) x 3 = Maximum No. Lamp Wattage
of Canopy Luminaires
 
         (e)   On-site lighting, other than canopy luminaires, shall consist of
well shielded luminaires. A 90-degree cut-off type, deflector, refractor, or
forward throw light fixture is required when luminaires are greater than 2,000
lumens where located within 150 feet of residentially used or zoned property or
street right-of way.
         (f)   Submittal of photometric plans shall be required with all site
plan checks for building permits with a lighted canopy, or on property with
lighting parking lots.
         (g)   Site lighting that may be confused with warning, emergency, or
traffic signals is prohibited.
         (h)   The style of light standards and fixtures shall be consistent
with the style and character of architecture proposed on the site. Poles shall
be anodized (or otherwise coated) to minimize glare from the light source.
      (4)   (a)   With the exception of lighting for public streets and private
streets, all other project lighting used to illuminate buildings, parking lots,
walkways, plazas, or the landscape shall be evaluated during the planned
development process.
         (b)   The following table gives minimum and, for under-canopy fueling
areas, maximum lighting levels for outdoor facilities used at night:
Table 1: Area/Activity** Foot candle
Table 1: Area/Activity**                         Foot candle
Building surrounds (non-residential)             1.0
Bikeways along roadside
Commercial areas                                 0.9
Intermediate areas                               0.6
Residential areas                                0.2
Walkways along roadside
Commercial areas                                 0.9
Intermediate areas                               0.6
Residential areas                                0.5
Park walkways                                    0.5
Pedestrian stairways                             0.3
Loading and unloading platforms                  5.0
Parking areas                                    1.0
Playgrounds                                      5.0
Under-canopy area (average maintained maximum)   20.0
Under-canopy area (initial installation maximum) 26.0
**Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) Lighting Handbook
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.100)
§ 155.199 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIXTURE. The assembly that holds the lamp (bulb) in a lighting system. It
includes the elements designed to give light output control, such as a
reflector (mirror) or refractor (lens), the ballast, housing, and the
attachment parts.
   FOOT CANDLE. A unit of measure for luminance. A unit of luminance on a
surface that is everywhere one foot from a uniform point source of light of one
candle and equal to one lumen per square foot.
   FULL-CUTOFF (FCO). A light fixture which cuts off all upward transmission of
light.
   GLARE. Discomfort experienced by an observer with a direct line of sight to
a light source which often results in visual impairment.
   HID LIGHTING (HIGH INTENSITY DISCHARGE LIGHTING.) A family of bulb type
including mercury vapor, metal halide, or high pressure or low pressure sodium,
which glow when an electric current is passed through a gas mixture inside the
bulb.
   HORIZONTAL (OR VERTICAL) FOOT CANDLES. The amount of light striking a
vertical or horizontal plane.
   INVENTORY OF LIGHTING. A list of lamps indicating the bulb type, bulb
wattage, and manufacturer through which the rated lumens can be determined.
   LIGHT SOURCE. The bulb and lens, diffuser, or reflective enclosure.
   LIGHT TRESPASS. Light projected onto a property from a fixture not located
on that property.
   LUMEN. Measure of brightness of the illumination exiting a bulb, provided by
fixture manufacturer.
   LUMINAIRE. The complete lighting unit, including the lamp, the fixture, and
other parts.
   NON-CUTOFF. A light fixture which does not cut off all upward transmission
of light.
   PHOTOMETRIC PLAN. A plan used for an approval process or construction
indicating the number, location, type of luminaire, and manufacturer’s
specification data, on proposed site lighting, both pole- and building-mounted.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.100)
§ 155.200 SHIELDING.
   (A)   All non-exempt outdoor lighting fixtures shall have shielding as
required by the table below in this division (A).
      FULLY SHIELDED. Outdoor light fixtures shielded or constructed so that no
light rays are emitted by the installed fixture at angles above the horizontal
plane as certified by a photometric test report.
      PARTIALLY SHIELDED. Outdoor light fixtures shielded or constructed so
that no more than 10% of the light rays are emitted by the installed fixture at
angles above the horizontal plane as certified by a photometric test report.
Table 2: Shielding Requirements
Fixture Lamp Type Shielding
Table 2: Shielding Requirements
Fixture Lamp Type                       Shielding
Low pressure sodium                     Partially
High pressure sodium                    Fully
Metal halide                            Fully 1, 5
Fluorescent                             Fully 2, 4
Quartz                                  Fully 3
Incandescent greater than 160 watts     Fully
Incandescent 160 watt or less           None
Any light source of 50 watt or less     None
Glass tubes filled with neon, argon, or None
krypton
Other source                            As approved by the Building Official
 
   (B)   (1)   Metal halide lighting, used primarily for display purposes,
shall not be used for security lighting after 11:00 p.m. or after closing hours
if before 11:00 p.m. Metal halide lamps shall be installed only in enclosed
luminaries.
      (2)   (a)   Outdoor advertising signs of the type constructed of
translucent materials and wholly illuminated from within do not require
shielding.
         (b)   Dark backgrounds with light lettering or symbols are preferred,
to minimize detrimental effects.
         (c)   Unless conforming to the above dark background preference, total
lamp wattage per property shall be less than 160 watts.
      (3)   For the purposes of this subchapter, quartz lamps shall not be
considered an incandescent light source.
      (4)   Warm white and natural lamps are preferred, to minimize detrimental
effects.
      (5)   For filtering requirements for metal halide fixture lamp types, see
Section 7.
   (C)   Existing outdoor lighting shall be brought into conformance with this
chapter within two years from the date of adoption of the ordinance codified
herein.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.100)
§ 155.201 FILTRATION.
   Metal halide fixture lamp types shall be filtered. FILTERED means any
outdoor light fixtures which has a glass, acrylic, or translucent enclosure of
the light source.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.100)
§ 155.202 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Top mounted fixtures required. Lighting fixtures used to illuminate an
outdoor advertising sign shall be mounted on the top of the sign structure or
lighted internally. All such fixtures shall comply with the shielding
requirements.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Searchlights. The operation of searchlights for advertising
purposes is prohibited between 10:00 p.m. and sunrise the following morning.
      (2)   Recreational facilities. No outdoor recreational facility, public
or private, shall be illuminated after 11:00 p.m. except to conclude a specific
recreational or sporting event or any other similar activity conducted at or in
the facility which was in progress under such illumination prior to 11:00 p.m.
   (C)   Compliance limit. Existing outdoor advertising structures shall be
brought into conformance with this chapter within two years from the date of
adoption of the ordinance codified herein.
   (D)   Outdoor display lots. Outdoor display lots for vehicle sales and
leasing shall comply with the requirements of this chapter. In addition,
display fixture illumination shall be reduced within 30 minutes after closing
so that the remaining illumination levels are sufficient for security purposes
only; provided, however, that any illumination used after 11:00 p.m. shall be
reduced to levels sufficient for security purposes only.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.100)
§ 155.203 TEMPORARY EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Request renewal information required.
      (1)   Any person may submit a written request, on a form provided by the
Zoning Administrator, for a temporary exemption request.
      (2)   A temporary exemption shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Specific exemption or exemptions requested;
         (b)   Type and use of outdoor fixture involved;
         (c)   Duration of time requested exemption;
         (d)   Type of lamp and calculated lumens;
         (e)   Total wattage of lamp or lamps;
         (f)   Proposed location on premises of the outdoor light fixture(s);
         (g)   Previous temporary exemptions, if any, and addresses of premises
there under;
         (h)   Physical size of outdoor light fixture(s) and type of shielding
provided; and
         (i)   Such other data and information as may be required by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Approval; duration. The Zoning Administrator shall have 30 days from
the date of submission of the request for temporary exemption to act, in
writing, on the request. If approved, the exemption shall be valid for not more
than 60 days from the date of issuance of the approval.
   (C)   Disapproval; appeal. If the request for temporary exemption is
disapproval, the person making the request will have the appeal rights provided
in §§
155.195 through
155.204.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.100)
§ 155.204 OTHER EXEMPTIONS.
   The following structures or uses are exempt from these lighting standards:
public recreation facilities, parks, pedestrian walkways, airport runways,
telecommunication towers, broadcast towers, and historic period lighting.
   (A)   Nonconformance.
      (1)   Mercury vapor lamps shall not be used.
      (2)   Bottom mounted outdoor advertising sign lighting shall not be used.
      (3)   All other outdoor light fixtures lawfully installed prior to and
operable on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter are
exempt from all requirements of this chapter except those regulated. There
shall be no change in use or lamp type, or any replacement or structural
alteration made, without conforming to all applicable requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Fossil fuel light. All outdoor light fixtures producing light directly
by the combustion of natural gas or other fossil fuels are exempt from all
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   State and federal facilities. Outdoor light fixtures installed on, in
and in connection with those facilities on land owned or operated by the
federal government or the state, or any department, division, agency, or
instrumentality thereof, are exempt from all requirements of this chapter.
Voluntary compliance with the intent of this chapter at those facilities is
encouraged.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.100)
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
§ 155.215 GENERAL.
   (A)   Any wind energy conversion system shall be located on parcel that has
a minimum lot size of three acres.
   (B)   Wind energy conversion systems shall be allowed as accessory
structures as conditional uses in certain zoning districts.
   (C)   In addition to the standards set forth in §§
155.335 through
155.341 regarding all conditional use, all wind energy conversion systems shall
also meet all the following requirements.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.216 COMMERCIAL SALE OF POWER PROHIBITED.
   Any wind energy conversion system shall be used only for the purpose of
generating power for the property on which the wind energy conversion system is
located or for the purpose of transmitting power to the electrical grid of an
electric utility company through an approved interconnection.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.217 UTILITY INTERCONNECTIONS.
   Any wind energy conversion system shall be constructed and operated and any
interconnection between a wind energy conversion system and an electric utility
company shall be allowed only in accordance with all local, state, and federal
regulations including regulations issued by the Public Utilities Commission and
the Federal Aviation Administration. Additionally, electrical interconnections
shall be allowed only in accordance with the applicable standards of the
electric utility company.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.218 REQUIRED SETBACKS.
   A minimum setback of one and one-half times the height of the wind energy
conversion system shall be maintained between the wind energy conversion system
and any property line, structure intended for human occupation, overhead
utility line, or other tower support base.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.219 TOWER HEIGHT.
   In no event shall the height of a wind energy conversion system exceed 90
feet as measured from the ground to the rotor hub. Further, there shall be no
less than 30 feet between the lowest arc of the rotors of a wind energy
conversion system and the ground, any portion of a structure, or any tree.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.220 ROTOR SIZE/OPERATION.
   The maximum size of the rotors of a wind energy conversion system shall be
reviewed upon application for a conditional use. In determining the appropriate
size for the rotors, the city shall consider such factors as noise, proximity
to surrounding residences, safety, and aesthetic issues. All systems shall be
equipped with appropriate braking devices or similar protective devices to slow
down or stop the rotors if the wind exceeds the capacity of the system.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.221 NOISE.
   No wind energy conversion system shall produce more than 60 decibels of
sound measured at the closest point on the closest property line from the base
of the system. Information from the manufacturer of the wind energy conversion
system shall be submitted at the time of the submittal of the conditional use,
ensuring that this requirement can be met once the system is operational.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.222 ELECTROMAGNETIC INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   No wind energy conversion system shall produce electromagnetic
interference so as to disrupt transmissions such as those from radio,
television, or microwave towers.
   (B)   At the time of application for the conditional use, the petitioner
must submit information from the manufacturer indicating that, once
operational, the wind energy conversion system will not adversely affect the
transmissions.
   (C)   If necessary, generators and alternators shall be filtered, shielded,
or both so as to prevent the emission of radio and television signals.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.223 TOWER ACCESS.
   (A)   Appropriate safety measures must be undertaken to discourage
unauthorized climbing of a wind energy conversion system tower.
   (B)   Appropriate measures shall include either:
      (1)   The construction of a six-foot tall chain link fence with locking
gate around the tower;
      (2)   The tower shall be constructed so that the lowest climbing access
shall be at least 12 feet above the ground; or
      (3)   A locked anti-climb device shall be installed on the tower.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.224 WARNING INFORMATION.
   Information related to the maximum power output, nominal voltage, and
maximum current, and emergency shut-down procedures for the wind energy
conversion system, shall be posted near the base of the tower in a visible
location.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.225 LIGHTING.
   Unless required by a more restrictive regulation, no lighting shall be
installed on a wind energy conversion system.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.226 TOWER DESIGN.
   In reviewing the conditional use for a wind energy conversion system, the
city shall consider the design and color of the tower to ensure that no
significant adverse impacts are occurring to neighboring property owners,
including, but not limited to, infringement into natural and urban viewsheds,
historic property, major community entryways, parks, schools, churches,
playgrounds, or similar public and recreational uses.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.227 MANUFACTURER WARRANTY/MAINTENANCE INFORMATION.
   (A)   Upon application for a conditional use for a wind energy conversion
system, the petitioner shall submit a manufacturer’s statement documenting that
the system has been successfully and safely operated in atmospheric conditions
that are similar to conditions in the city.
   (B)   Further, the petitioner shall provide a copy of the manufacturer’s
warranty indicating that the system is warranted against any system failures
reasonably expected during severe weather conditions.
   (C)   Further, the petitioner shall submit system specifications including
maximum power output and a maintenance schedule for the system.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.228 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   Any wind energy conversion system shall be constructed in accordance with
all applicable life, safety, building, and fire codes, including but not
limited to the following.
   (A)   An applicant for a building permit for a wind energy conversion system
shall submit plans and specifications stamped by a registered engineer.
   (B)   Any wind energy conversion system shall have appropriate lightning
protection to sufficiently protect all connected and adjacent equipment and
structures from damage. The lightning protection system shall effectively
discharge lightning energy from the structure to the ground through the
application of shielding, lightning arresters, and deep earth grounding.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
§ 155.229 ABANDONMENT/REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   Any wind energy conversion system which has not been used for a
period of six months or more shall be declared abandoned. Upon abandonment of
the system, the city shall revoke the conditional use and the system shall be
removed at the expense of the property owner.
      (2)   The city shall determine that a wind energy conversion system has
not been used if the following criteria apply:
         (a)   The wind energy conversion system has not been operating for a
substantial period of time and the owner of the system is unable to provide
documentation demonstrating that the system has produced a minimum of 25% of
the power output as stated in the system specifications over the past six
months;
         (b)   The wind energy conversion system has fallen into obvious
disrepair and/or has been condemned by the city; and
          (c)   The wind energy conversion system has become violative of some
other local, state, or federal law and the owner of the system has not taken
appropriate actions to remedy the problem.
   (B)   If deemed appropriate, the city may stipulate, through the conditional
use, that the wind energy conversion system shall be removed at the owner’s
expense upon the rezoning of the subject property to a zoning district
classification in which wind energy conversion systems are not allowed as
either a permitted use or conditional use.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.110)
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN CONDITIONAL USES
§ 155.240 PURPOSE.
   In order to accomplish the general purpose of this chapter, it is necessary
to give special consideration to certain uses because they are unique in
nature, require large land areas, and are potentially incompatible with
existing development.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.120)
§ 155.241 MANUFACTURE HOME PARK/SUBDIVISIONS.
   The following development standards shall apply for all manufactured home
parks, which shall be approved as a development permitted on review.
   (A)   Minimum area. No park shall be allowed to open on less than ten acres.
   (B)   Manufactured homes only. Only manufactured homes shall be permitted,
except for additions and accessory structures which may be constructed on site.
   (C)   Minimum lot size. This minimum lot size is 5,000 square feet,
exclusive of public street rights-of-way and private street easements.
   (D)   Street standards.
      (1)   Public streets shall meet minimum standards of Chapter 151 or, in
the case of private streets, standards established by the Board of
Commissioners in the approval process.
      (2)   Cul-de-sac roads shall have a maximum length of 500 feet and a
minimum turnaround of 40-foot radius.
      (3)   They must be accessible at all times to Fire Department, ambulance,
police, sanitation, and utility vehicles.
   (E)   Street lighting. The developer shall furnish and install street lights
in accordance with city standards. On private streets, lights shall be operated
and maintained by the developer.
   (F)   Fencing and screening. The developer shall install screening, opaque
fencing, or plantings on the front, side, and rear perimeters of the
manufactured home park, according to site plans approved by the Planning and
Zoning Board.
   (G)   Shade trees. The developer shall plant shade trees on the property.
One tree with a minimum trunk diameter of not less than one inch shall be
planted on each manufactured home lot. Trees shall be of varieties recommended
by the city’s Parks and Recreation Department.
   (H)   Drainage and storm sewers. Drainage and storm sewers are as regulated
by this chapter.
   (I)   Water/sewer facilities. Water/sewer facilities are as regulated by
this chapter.
   (J)   Utilities. Utilities are as regulated by this chapter.
   (K)   Recreation areas. A park and recreation area shall be provided having
a minimum of 150 square feet for each manufactured home site, consolidated into
usable space. This requirement may be waived by the Planning and Zoning Board
if the manufactured home park has minimum lot sizes of 6,000 square feet.
   (M)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall meet minimum setbacks
in accordance with division (P)(4) below.
   (N)   Lot width. The lot width shall be a minimum 60 feet.
   (O)   Perimeter setbacks. Perimeter setbacks are as follows:
      (1)   Twenty five-foot perimeter setback from all public rights-of-way;
      (2)   Any perimeter yard abutting a residential district shall maintain a
15-foot setback; and
      (3)   All perimeter setbacks shall be maintained and landscape.
   (P)   Lot setbacks. Lot setbacks are as follows:
      (1)   Front yard. Front yard requirements shall be 15 feet from all road
rights-of-way within the manufactured home park.
      (2)   Rear yard. Rear yard requirements are ten feet.
      (3)   Side yard. Side yard requirements are eight feet.
      (4)   Accessory structures. Accessory structure requirements are five
feet, side and rear.
   (Q)   Off-street parking. There shall be a minimum of two paved, off-street
parking spaces on each manufactured home lot, which shall be located in the
side yard.
   (R)   Storage space. The manufactured home park shall provide a paved
storage area for boats, campers, RVs, and the like, for use only by tenants.
The number of spaces within this area shall be equal to one space for every
five manufactured homes sites. Each space shall be ten feet by 20 feet.
   (S)   Securing and skirting. All manufactured homes and accessory structures
shall be securely anchored to the ground, at intervals approved by the Building
Official. Manufactured homes, once in their permanent location upon the lot,
shall be fully skirted prior to occupancy.
   (T)   Additions to manufactured homes.
      (1)   Building permits shall be required for all additions, which shall
meet all setback requirements.
      (2)   No additions or structures erected shall have a height greater than
the height of the manufactured home to which it is attached; and shall be
supported by a foundation approved by the Building Official.
   (U)   Signs.
      (1)   The developer shall install, in accordance with standards of the
city, all road and street name signs.
      (2)   Each manufactured home park shall be permitted to display, on each
frontage, one identifying sign of maximum size of 25 square feet.
   (V)   Guarantees to include improvements. Guarantees may be required, in an
amount determined by the Planning and Zoning Board and approved by the Board of
Commissioners, to assure completion of all requirements within this section.
   (W)   General provisions.
      (1)   Sidewalks from the paved driveway to the main entry of the
manufactured home shall be a minimum of 48 inches in width.
      (2)   Each manufactured home shall have an address of three-inch high
letters mounted on the side fronting the street.
      (3)   Each manufactured home space shall be clearly defined by permanent
markers.
      (4)   Each manufactured home space shall be serviced by the public water
and sewer system. Manufactured homes that cannot be connected to the public
water and sewer system shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall not be used for commercial, industrial, or
other non-residential uses.
   (X)   Application requirements. The application shall be accompanied by
three copies of the plot plan drawn to scale and prepared by a licensed
engineer or architect. The following information shall be shown:
      (1)   The location and legal description of the proposed manufactured
home park;
      (2)   Plans and specifications of all buildings, improvements, and
facilities constructed or to be constructed within the manufactured home park;
      (3)   The proposed use of buildings shown on the site;
      (4)   The location and size of all manufactured home spaces;
      (5)   The location of all points of ingress and egress and internal
traffic circulation pattern;
      (6)   A landscaping plan;
      (7)   The location of all lighting standards to be provided;
      (8)   The location of all walls and fences, the indication of their
height, and the materials of their construction;
      (9)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (10)   Such other architectural and engineering data as may be required
to permit the Zoning Administrator and Board of Commissioners to determine if
the provisions of this chapter are being complied with; and
      (11)   An estimated time table for project development.
   (Y)   Mobile homes and manufactured homes. Mobile homes and manufactured
homes older than ten years from date of manufacture are not allowed to be
placed in any mobile home park or manufactured home park that is subject to
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.120; Ord. passed 4-19-2018)
§ 155.242 CAMPGROUNDS, RECREATION VEHICLE PARK, AND TRAVEL PARKS STANDARDS.
   Campgrounds may be established in specific districts with the following
standards.
   (A)   All campgrounds, recreational vehicle parks, or travel parks shall
have an area of not less than 45,000 square feet.
   (B)   All camping units/spaces, cabins, and/or service structures shall be
set back from all property lines a minimum of 25 feet.
   (C)   All campgrounds, recreational vehicle parks, or travel parks shall
provide the following minimum facilities.
      (1)   Each recreational vehicle space shall include one water connection.
For every three tent spaces or sleeping cabins, one water connection shall be
provided. All water installations shall conform to the State Plumbing Code and
current Building Codes adopted by the city.
      (2)   A minimum of 25% of the all recreational vehicle spaces shall be
provided with sewer hookups. Such sewer hookups shall be installed pursuant to
the requirements of the State Plumbing Code and the current Building Codes as
adopted by the city.
      (3)   One refuse container of approximately 90 gallons in size shall be
provided for every ten spaces.
      (4)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be provided per state
requirements.
   (D)   There shall be not less than 1,500 square feet of lot area for each
space provided in the travel park; provided, however, that, maximum density
shall not exceed 20 spaces per acre within the travel park.
   (E)   Every space shall be clearly marked to facilitate location by
emergency vehicles.
   (F)   All internal streets shall be paved with asphalt or portland cement
concrete and no parking shall be allowed on any internal street. Each space
shall have two off-street parking spaces. One space may be for the recreational
vehicle. In case of a trailer camper, the pull vehicle shall be counted as part
of the recreational vehicle.
   (G)   (1)   The applicant shall provide a documentation of compliance with
all state and local regulations relating to health, plumbing, and electrical
standards.
      (2)   Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the applicant
shall provide a copy of the all final inspections reports and/or licenses from
the Department of Health and Plumbing and Electrical Commissions.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.26.120)
PARKING, LOADING, AND STACKING REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.255 PURPOSE.
   (A)   No land shall be used or occupied; no structure shall be erected,
altered, used, or occupied; and no use shall be operated unless off-street
parking facilities, in at least the amount required, are provided or available
and maintained in the manner set forth.
   (B)   Uses existing on the effective date of the ordinance codified herein
shall not be reduced below the requirements of this section.
   (C)   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided and maintained as
required in this section for any addition to or the extension or enlargement of
a use of land or building which existed on the effective date of the ordinance
codified herein.
   (D)   The provisions and maintenance of the off-street parking facilities
required shall be the joint and several responsibility of the operator and
owner of the use and the operator or owner of the land on which, or the
structure in which they are located.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.28.010)
§ 155.256 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Standards.
      (1)    Each off-street parking space shall be an area of not less than
171 square feet, exclusive of access or maneuvering area, ramps, and other
appurtenances as per the following standards.
 
Required Minimum Off-street Parking Dimensions
Parking Angle  Stall Length  Stall Width  Aisle Width, One- Aisle Width, Two-
(Degrees)      (Feet)        (Feet)       Way (Feet)        Way (Feet)
90             19            9            25                25
60             19            9            18.5              20
45             19            9            13.5              20
30             19            9            1                 20
0 (parallel)   21            9            12                20
 
      (2)   Off-street parking facilities shall be located on the site on which
the use or structure for which they are provided is located except as otherwise
permitted under a special plan for location or sharing of facilities.
   (B)   Maintenance. Off-street parking facilities shall be constructed,
maintained, and operated in accordance with the following specifications.
      (1)   Drainage and surfacing. They shall be properly graded for drainage,
surfaced with concrete or asphalt, and maintained in good condition, free of
weeds, dust, trash, and debris.
      (2)   Protective barriers. They shall be provided with barriers of such
dimensions those occupants of adjacent structures are not unreasonably
disturbed, either by day or night, by the movement of vehicles.
      (3)   Outdoor lighting. When provided, outdoor light shall comply with §§
155.195 through
155.204.
      (4)   Entrances and exits. They shall be provided with designated
entrances and exits so located as to minimize traffic congestion.
      (5)   Prohibition of other uses. They shall not be used for the sale,
storage, repair, or dismantling of any vehicles, equipment, materials, or
supplies.
      (6)   Permanent barrier.
         (a)   In the event they are designed such that the facility abuts a
public sidewalk and vehicle parking is diagonal or perpendicular to the
sidewalk, a permanent barrier shall be installed three feet from the interior
edge of the sidewalk to prevent vehicle encroachment over the sidewalk.
         (b)   If the facility abuts and faces a street and there is no
sidewalk, permanent barriers shall be installed seven feet from the curb to
provide for a pedestrian way and to prevent vehicle encroachment.
      (7)   Compliance. All parking facilities shall comply with §
155.182.
      (8)   Parking space design. In residential districts, parking spaces
accessed by local roads and required by this chapter shall be located and
designed with a minimum of 23 feet or sufficient depth from the back of the
sidewalk so that there will be no vehicle encroachment over the public
sidewalk.
      (9)   Access. If a parking facility accesses a collector street, major
arterial, or minor arterial as designated by the major street plan map that
functionally classifies streets in the city, or, if by reasons of topography as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Board, the facility shall have a
controlled access with a designated entrance and exit, and sufficient
maneuvering space on the interior of the lot to preclude the necessity of
vehicles backing onto the street.
   (C)   Minimum amounts of off-street parking facilities required. The
following minimum amounts of off-street parking facilities shall be provided.
The classification of uses shall be deemed to include and apply to all uses,
and if the classification is not readily determinable, it shall be fixed by the
Zoning Administrator.
Table of Parking Spaces Required*
(SFGFA: Square Feet Gross Floor Area)**
Land Use Building Type Parking Spaces Required
Table of Parking Spaces Required*
(SFGFA: Square Feet Gross Floor Area)**
Land Use Building Type                  Parking Spaces Required
Dwellings, One-Family and Two-Family    2 spaces per dwelling unit
Dwellings, Multi-Family                 2.25 spaces per dwelling unit
Group Care Homes/Assisted Living and    0.50 per bedroom or suite
Congregate Care Facilities
Hotels, Motels, Rooming Houses, Bed and 1 space per guest room
Breakfast Establishments
Manufactured Home Parks                 2 spaces per manufactured home
Nursing, Long-term Care Facilities      1 space per 4 beds
Theaters, Auditoriums, Gymnasiums       1 space per 3 seats or 18 inches of
                                        linear bench
Convention Facilities, Assembly or      1 space per 15 square feet of assembly
Banquet Hall                            area
Place of Worship                        1 space per 4 seats or 24 inches of
                                        linear bench
Funeral Homes                           One space per 600 SFGFA
Schools, Elementary                     2 spaces per classroom
Schools, Secondary                      10 spaces per classroom
Restaurants, On-sale Liquor             1 space per 100 SFGFA plus 5 per drive-
Establishments                          through lanes
                                        No parking requirements except that all
Private & Public Utility Substations    areas of ingress/egress and loading/
                                        unloading/storage shall be hard
                                        surfaced
Commercial Storage or Mini Storage      30 feet of circulation aisle width
Units                                   immediately adjacent to area of
                                        building(s)
Medical Clinic/Office                   1 per 250 SFGFA
Industrial and Manufacturing            1 space per 400 SFGFA
Establishments
Warehouses                              1 parking space per 1,000 SFGFA
Offices, Commercial and Personal        1 space per 200
Service Establishments
Retail Trade                            1 space per 300 SFGFA
Drive-up Windows                        3 per drive through lane***
Sports & Recreation Facilities
Bowling Alley                           4 spaces per lane
Golf Course                             6 spaces per hole
Baseball/Softball/Soccer                36 spaces per field
Tennis Court                            4 spaces per court
Miniature Golf                          2 per hole
Recreation Center/Swimming Pool/Water   1 per 250 SFGFA
Park
Roller/Ice Skating Rink                 1 per 250 SFGFA
Sports Club/Health Spa                  1 per 250 SFGFA
Fire /Ambulance Facilities              4 spaces per bay
New & Used Vehicle and Equipment Sales  1 per 600 SFGFA**** and all areas used
                                        for storage and display shall be paved
Auto Repair, Auto Towing, Body Repair   1 per 250 SFGFA*****
and Painting
Day Care Center                         1 per full-time equivalent staff plus
                                        0.1 per child licensed
Furniture, appliance or home
improvement products (i.e., carpet,     1 per 600 SFGFA
paint, wallpaper, and the like)
Hardware Store/Home Center/Lumberyard   1 per 600 SFGFA
Hospital                                2 per bed
Shopping Center/Strip Center -
Buildings designed for 3 or more        1 per 200 SFGFA******
tenants
All non-residential buildings, except   1 per 300 SFGFA
those specified above
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Numbers include spaces required for employee and staff parking.
**Square footage shall be the total square footage of the combined usable
floors as measured by outside building dimensions.
***Stacking in drive-through lanes shall count as 1 space per 23 linear feet of
striped stacking lane.
****Parking spaces used for customer and employee parking exclusive of
automobile display area.
*****Automotive repair business indoor and outdoor vehicle storage or repair
areas that are not accessible to the public are exempt from the aisle width and
access requirements of this chapter. Proposed vehicle storage or repair areas
must be designated on the site plan and building floor plan and shall be
completely screened from the public.
******No more than 1/3 of the units shall be a On-Sale Liquor Establishment or
Restaurant. If more than 1/3 of the units are either a On-Sale Liquor
Establishment or Restaurant, parking shall be each individual use.
 
   (D)   Combined facilities. The off-street parking facilities required of two
or more uses located on the same building site or an immediate proximity may be
combined and used jointly, provided that the facilities shall provide the sum
total of the facilities required.
   (E)   Maximum amounts of off-street parking facilities. For commercial uses,
excluding new and used vehicle sales, minimum amounts of off-street parking
facilities may be exceeded by only 20%. Parking in excess of this maximum may
be approved by the Board of Commissioners upon justification of need.
   (F)   Special plan for location or sharing of facilities. Off-street parking
facilities may be located on another site or shared under the following
procedure:
      (1)   Application for approval of special plan. An application for
approval of a special plan shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning Board by
the owner(s) of the entire land area to be included within the special plan. It
shall include the owner(s) of all structures existing on the land and all
encumbrances of the land and structures. The application shall contain such
information required by this chapter or deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include plans showing the location of the uses or
structures for which off-street parking facilities are required and the
location of the proposed off-street parking.
      (2)   Review of application. Applications shall be reviewed by the
Planning and Zoning Board and either approved or disapproved by the Board of
Commissioners within 90 days of the date of the receipt of the application,
except that the applicant may request a continuance.
      (3)   Recording of special plan. A copy of the plan shall be recorded as
a restrictive covenant against the property.
      (4)   Amendment or withdrawal of special plan. A plan may only be amended
or withdrawn pursuant to the same procedure as for approval.
   (G)   Parking for persons with disabilities. It is the responsibility of the
owner to follow all provisions of the Americans With Disabilities Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. The following are basic requirements for accessible
spaces and are not a complete reiteration of the Americans With Disabilities
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
      (1)   (a)   The following number of off-street parking spaces, based on
the total required parking, are to be reserved for exclusive use by persons
with disabilities. One in every eight accessible spaces, but always at least
one space, must be van-accessible. Parking spaces for persons with disabilities
may be counted toward the total number of parking spaces required for the use.
Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Total Parking in Lot Required Minimum Number of Accessible Spaces
Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Total Parking in Lot Required Minimum Number of Accessible Spaces
1 to 25              1
26 to 50             2
51 to 75             3
76 to 100            4
101 to 150           5
151 to 200           6
201 to 300           7
301 to 400           8
401 to 500           9
501 to 1,000         2% of total spaces
1,001 and over       20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
         (b)   1.   The required number of accessible spaces for out-patient
medical facilities shall be 10% of the total number of parking spaces.
            2.   The required number of accessible spaces for facilities that
specialize in treatment or services for persons with mobility impairments shall
be 20% of the total number of parking spaces.
      (2)   Accessible parking spaces must be a minimum of 96 inches in width.
Parking access aisles shall be part of an accessible route to the building or
facility entrance. Two accessible parking spaces may share a common access
aisle. Access aisles adjacent to accessible spaces shall be a minimum of 60
inches in width. Van-accessible spaces shall be a minimum of 96 inches wide and
shall be served by an access aisle a minimum of 96 inches wide. All accessible
parking spaces shall be a minimum of 20 feet in length.
      (3)   An alternative to the provision of separate van-accessible spaces
is the provision of universal parking. Universal parking spaces shall be 132
inches wide with a 60-inch wide access aisle.
   (H)   Design. Parking lots shall be designed and paved in conformity to the
above standards unless otherwise first approved by the Board of Commissioners
during the review of the preliminary plat application. If the Board of
Commissioners allows a gravel parking lot, the following minimum standards
shall be met.
      (1)   The parking lot site shall be graded to remove vegetation and to
create a subbase with a minimum slope of at least 1% to provide for adequate
site drainage.
      (2)   The subbase shall be compacted.
      (3)   A minimum of six inches of gravel (three-quarters of an inch) shall
be applied over the subbase and compacted.
      (4)   Periodic maintenance of the gravel parking lot shall be required.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.28.020; Ord. passed 2-16-2017)
§ 155.257 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In all districts, and on the same premises with every structure
involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles or materials or merchandise,
there shall be provided adequate space for standing, loading and unloading in
order to avoid undue interference with public use of the streets or alleys.
   (B)   Off-street loading and unloading spaces shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   One off-street loading and unloading space shall be provided for
buildings up to and including 20,000 square feet of floor area, plus one
additional off-street loading and unloading space for each additional 20,000
square feet of floor area up to and including 100,000 square feet.
      (2)   There shall be provided an additional off-street loading and
unloading space for each additional 40,000 square feet of floor area in excess
of over 100,000 square feet.
      (3)   Where trailer trucks are involved, such loading and unloading space
shall be designed with appropriate means of truck access to a street or alley
as well as adequate maneuvering area.
      (4)   All areas devoted to permanent off-street loading and unloading as
required under this section shall be of asphalt or concrete construction.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.28.030)
§ 155.258 STORAGE AND PARKING OF TRAILERS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, AND
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is equipped for sleeping is
considered a recreational vehicle, including, but not limited to, any motor
home, travel trailer, fifth-wheel trailer, camper not mounted on a truck, or
any other vehicle or object which the officer deems to be a large RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE. This includes, but is not limited to, boats, snowmobiles, or jet skis
(or trailers to carry them). It also includes, but is not limited to, small
utility trailers, camper van conversions, tent trailers, or campers mounted in
trucks.
   (B)   Commercial vehicles may be parked on the driveway of a residence
provided that the vehicle is parked five feet back from the interior edge of
the sidewalk or the curb if there is no sidewalk, and must follow §
155.256(B)(1) for parking surface. Commercial vehicles loaded with live animals
or any hazardous material as defined by U.S. Department of Transportation
regulations will not be permitted.
   (C)   Trailers or recreational vehicles on roadways or on public places
cannot be occupied on a regular basis with respect to using them as a temporary
dwelling.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.28.040; Ord TSO 2011-01, passed 6-16-2011) Penalty,
see §
155.999
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 155.270 AUTHORITY.
   The city’s authority to regulate signs, billboards, and other advertising
structures is specified in SDCL Ch. 31-29.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.30.010)
§ 155.271 INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to establish effective local
regulation of outdoor advertising so as to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of those persons using and residing adjacent to public rights-
of-way. The following regulations are intended to promote and preserve the
natural aesthetics of the city while providing for the convenience of the
traveling public, for the promotion of locally available facilities, goods, and
services, and to minimize negative impacts on property adjacent to public
rights-of-way. It is, therefore, the intent of these regulations to achieve the
following:
   (A)   Safety. To promote the safety of persons and property by requiring
that signs:
      (1)   Do not create a hazard due to collapse, fire, collision, decay or
abandonment; and
      (2)   Do not create traffic hazards by distracting or confusing
motorists, impairing a driver’s ability to see pedestrians, obstacles, or other
vehicles or to see and interpret any official traffic sign, signal, or device.
   (B)   Communication. To promote the efficient transfer of information by
providing that:
      (1)   Business and services may identify themselves;
      (2)   Customers and other persons may locate a business or service; and
      (3)   No business, service, person or group is arbitrarily denied the use
of sight lines on a public right-of-way for communication purposes.
   (C)   Preservation of the natural landscape. To protect the public welfare
and to maintain and enhance the appearance and economic value of the landscape
by providing that signs:
      (1)   Do not create a nuisance to persons using the public right-of-way;
      (2)   Do not constitute a nuisance to the occupancy or use of adjacent
property as a result of their size, height, brightness, or movement; and
      (3)   Are constructed and installed in a manner which is in harmony with
buildings, neighborhoods, or other signs in the area.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.30.020)
§ 155.272 COMPLIANCE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   In any zoning district where signs are allowed, a sign permit shall be
required unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   In addition to all applicable state and federal regulations, any sign
erected within the city shall be required to conform to the following
regulations:
      (1)   To require a permit for certain types of signs subject to the
standards and procedures of this section;
      (2)   To allow certain signs that are small, unobtrusive, and incidental
to the principal use of the parcel on which they are located, subject to the
requirements of this chapter but without a requirement for a permit;
      (3)   To provide for temporary signs in limited circumstances; and
      (4)   To prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.30.030)
§ 155.273 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign or sign structure that is blank, obliterated, or
displays obsolete advertising material for a period in excess of 90 days. The
90-day period for determining if a sign is ABANDONED commences upon
notification of violation to the offender.
   BACK-TO-BACK SIGN. An off-premises or on-premises sign consisting of two
sign facings oriented in the opposite direction with not more than one face per
side.
   BANNER SIGN. An on-premises sign which is composed of lightweight material,
either enclosed or not enclosed in a rigid frame, secured or mounted so as to
allow movement of the sign caused by movement of the atmosphere. For the
purpose of this subchapter, a BANNER SIGN can only be used as a wall sign.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign erected for the convenience of the public, such as
directing traffic movement, parking, or identifying restrooms, public
telephones, walkways and other similar features, or facilities and bearing no
advertising in the message.
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. An off-premises or on-premises sign with two adjacent
faces oriented in the same direction and not more than ten feet apart at the
nearest point between the two faces.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign on a frame, pole, or other support structure not
attached to any building.
   HIGHWAY. Every way or place of whatever nature open to the public, as a
matter of right, for purposes of vehicular travel, is a HIGHWAY. The term
HIGHWAY shall also include private access easements and roadways.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign/billboard that advertises goods or services not
available at the location of the billboard or advertising sign.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign identifying an establishment’s activities,
products, or services conducted or available on the property upon which it is
located and signs advertising the sale or lease of the property upon which they
are located.
    SIGNS. Any sign defined in this subchapter which displays or conveys any
identification, description, illustration, or device illuminated or non-
illuminated, which directs attention to a product, service, business activity,
institution, business, or solicitation, including any permanently installed or
situated merchandise, or any emblem, painting, banner, pennant, or placard
designed to advertise, identify, or convey information, with the exception of
window displays.
   SIGN AREA. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing
the extreme limits of the actual sign surface, but excluding any structural or
supporting elements such as upright, aprons, poles, beams, or standards. In the
case of lettering on an awning or other undefined structure or space, a
perimeter shall be determined by adding two inches around the whole of the
lettering, using unbroken parallel lines. Logos shall not be included in square
footage, but must be subordinate to the sign. A logo that consists only of
words with or without a symbol shall be included in the sign square footage.
Logos attached to walls shall not exceed 20 square feet.
   SIGN FACING. The portion of a sign structure upon which advertising is
affixed or painted and visible in one direction at one time.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The sign face and support members that are permanently
affixed to the ground or attached to a structure. SIGN STRUCTURE does not
include the sign frame.
   SIGN TYPES. Sign types are canopy, ground/pole, projecting wall, roof, wall,
and wall/roof. SIGN TYPE pertains to the location of a sign on a property or
structure, and the method of support or attachment.
      (1)   CANOPY SIGN. This includes awnings and marquees. An overhead
covering projecting from and attached to a building, and the attachments
thereto.
      (2)   GROUND/POLE SIGN. A sign that is structurally self-supporting and
not attached to any other structure.
      (3)   PROJECTION WALL SIGN. A sign attached to and supported by a
building, projecting more than 12 inches from the wall to which it is attached.
A PROJECTING WALL SIGN shall not extend above the roof line.
      (4)   ROOF SIGN. A sign attached to roof of a building.
      (5)   WALL SIGN. A sign affixed to an exterior wall of a building and
which projects 12 or fewer inches from the wall.
      (6)   WALL/ROOF SIGN. A projecting wall sign which projects above the
roof line of a building and which is wholly supported by the building.
   SIGN USE. This refers to the way in which a sign is used based on the
function of the sign and/or its relationship to the property on which it is
located.
      (1)   AREA IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign erected to identify a group of
five or more commercial or industrial activities located either within a single
structure by identifying the structure or the area. The structure or area must
be identifiable as a unit through common ownership or management of the
building, utilities, and/or common facilities (i.e., parking, open space, mall,
and the like).
      (2)   BUSINESS SIGN. An on-premises sign or signs used to identify a
commercial or industrial activity.
      (3)   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A temporary sign erected to identify the
contractors, designers, and/or financial institutions involved in a major
construction project.
      (4)   HOME OCCUPATION SIGN. A sign erected to identify a home occupation.
      (5)   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN. A sign erected to identify an institutional
activity.
      (6)   RESIDENTIAL IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign that is showing the address
and/or name of the occupant(s) of a residential building.
      (7)   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SIGN. A sign identifying an unique
development or apartment complex being actively developed as evidenced by
buildings under construction or constructed and/or streets opened.
   SPECIALTY SIGNS. Specialty signs possess unique characteristics that require
special treatment or control. The following are included in the kinds of
specialty signs.
      (1)   PAINTED WALL SIGN. An on-premises sign painted directly upon a wall
or similar structure.
      (2)   PARASITIC SIGN. A sign affixed to a permanent supporting structure
that is in addition to signs specifically designed for said supporting
structure.
      (3)   TEMPORARY/PORTABLE SIGN. A sign not affixed to a permanent
supporting structure but which is designed to be moved from location to
location.
      (4)   MURAL. A pictorial representation not identifying goods or services
offered by a business.
      (5)   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN/READER BOARD.
         (a)   A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face of
the surface of the sign.
         (b)   A sign on which the message changes more than eight times per
day shall be considered an animated sign and not a changeable copy sign for
purposes of this subchapter.
         (c)   A sign on which the only copy that changes is an electronic or
mechanical indication of time or temperature shall be considered a “time and
temperature” portion of a sign and not a changeable copy sign for purposes of
this subchapter.
      (6)   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement, electric message, or
change of lighting, either natural or artificial, to depict action or create a
special effect or scene.
      (7)   PENNANT/BANNER SIGN. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other
material, whether or not containing a message of any kind, attached to a pole
or lighting standard, usually in series, that promotes the community or a
community event.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.30.040)
§ 155.274 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following signs shall be exempt from regulation under this chapter:
   (A)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Changing the sign face or the copy or message on signs specifically
designed for the use of replaceable copy;
      (2)   Painting, repainting, cleaning, or minor maintenance of a sign
provided no structural alteration is made; and
      (3)   Window signs, real estate signs, and like signs of a temporary
nature.
   (B)   Exempted signs.
      (1)   Governmental regulatory, directional, informational, and warning
signs; governmental agency flags, emblems, and insignia; and temporary signs
placed for the purpose of public safety;
      (2)   Commemorative plaques placed by recognized historical agencies and
commissions;
      (3)   Signs which can be viewed only from within the confines of a
structure or other clearly defined space;
      (4)   Instructional or identification signs less than two square feet,
such as parking information; and
      (5)   Political election signs not exceeding six square feet and removed
within one week after the election.
   (C)   Prohibited signs.
      (1)   All signs not expressly permitted under this chapter are prohibited
in the city. The following signs shall not be permitted, erected, or maintained
in any district, notwithstanding anything else contained in this chapter.
      (2)   Signs in section shall be removed or brought into conformity with
the provisions of this chapter within 30 days after receiving written notice
from the city.
      (3)   Such signs include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Signs attached or applied to trees, utility poles, vending
machines, boxes, benches, and other unapproved supporting structures;
         (b)   Signs encroaching on a public right-of-way or extending beyond a
property line unless specifically authorized;
         (c)   Illuminated signs containing flashing, intermitting, or moving
light that interfere with the traveled way of streets or obscure traffic signs
or devices;
         (d)   Wall or protruding signs that project above the wall upon which
they are attached;
         (e)   Signs that constitute pedestrian or vehicular traffic hazards or
which could be confused with any governmental regulatory, directional, or
warning sign;
         (f)   Moving signs;
         (g)   Off-premises advertising signs painted on building structures;
         (h)   Tethered, airborne devices advertising a business, product, or
service;
         (i)   Signs not complying with §
155.275;
         (j)   Searchlights, pennants, spinners, and streamers except for
occasions such as grand openings. Use shall be limited to a 15-day period;
         (k)   Signs placed on vehicles or trailers which are parked or located
for the primary purpose of displaying said signs; and
         (l)   Flags displaying an advertising message, except flags of any
nation, state, political subdivision, or corporate flag.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.30.050)
§ 155.275 NEW SIGNS.
   A sign permit shall be required for any new on-premises or off-premises sign
installation, including temporary signs. At the time of installation, the new
sign must conform to all requirements of this subchapter at the time of
installation.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   All signs shall be placed or erected in conformity with all
applicable side and rear yard setback requirements for structures. The minimum
front yard setback requirement for signs shall be five feet from any property
line.
      (2)   No sign, including political signs, are allowed to be located in
any public right-of-way or public or private access easement. All signs issued
by the city for public notice of proposed land use changes are exempt from this
requirement.
      (3)   There shall be a 250-foot separation between a new ground/pole on-
premises sign and an existing ground/pole on-premises sign.
      (4)   All sign structures shall be painted and maintained in muted colors
as to blend into the natural surroundings. Colors shall include, but not be
limited to, brown, black, or tan. Wood sign structures may remain unpainted and
be allowed to have a natural patina. At no time shall bright or neon colors be
used for either wood or metal sign structures.
      (5)   No debris, including but not necessarily limited to, wood material,
posts, metal, paper, plastic, cardboard, or other materials from the
construction or maintenance of a sign shall be left at the location or vicinity
of a sign. Any violation of this section is hereby declared a nuisance and
subject to abatement.
      (6)   No sign shall be constructed which resembles any official marker
erected by a governmental entity or which by reason of position, shape, or
color would conflict with the proper functioning of any official traffic
control device, sign, or marker.
      (7)   No sign shall exceed two sides. Signs shall have no more than one
frontal face (front) and one back face (back) as viewed from one static
position.
      (8)   Sign and sign structure design shall be reviewed and inspected by
the Building Official for compliance with the following:
         (a)   Building Code, as adopted; and
         (b)   Electric Code, as adopted.
   (B)   Off-premises sign requirements. All off-premises signs shall require a
conditional use permit and shall meet all the provisions of §§
155.335 through
155.341. In addition, due consideration shall be given to the relationship
between the sign(s) and the natural horizon/view shed in the area of the
proposed sign location. In addition to the general provisions of this chapter,
the following regulations shall apply to all off-premises signs.
      (1)   No off-premises sign shall be erected or placed closer than 500
feet from any residential district and/or dwelling unit.
      (2)   Off-premises signs shall be located no closer than 1,500 feet from
all other off-premises signs.
      (3)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 1,500 feet of any
dwelling unit or residential district without an approved conditional use
permit. All illuminated signs shall be installed and maintained in accordance
with §§
155.195 through
155.204 so as to minimize spillage of light outside of the sign face.
      (4)   Off-premises signs shall not exceed a height of 40 feet. Height
shall be measured from grade level directly below the face of the sign to the
highest part of the sign.
      (5)   The maximum display area of any off-premises sign located adjacent
to a two or more-lane street or highway shall not exceed 250 square feet on
each face. The maximum display area of any off-premises sign located on the
interstate shall not exceed 400 square feet on each face.
      (6)   All off-premises signs shall be placed or erected in conformity
with all applicable side and rear yard setback requirements for structures. The
minimum front yard setback requirement for on-premises or off-premises signs
shall be five feet from any property line.
      (7)   A vehicle or trailer of any form or type, whether licensed or not,
or in working condition or not, intended to be used as or in conjunction with
an on-premises or off-premises sign, shall not be located adjacent to any
public right-of-way or on private or public property so as to be visible from
the public right-of-way. Vehicles or trailers whose primary use is other than
outdoor advertising shall be exempt from this section.
   (C)   On-premises sign requirements.
       (1)   Number of signs per premises. Notwithstanding anything else in
this section, no more than two signs may be erected or maintained on any one
premises at any one time, except that when a premises is located on a corner
lot and has public entrances on two or more public ways, or that a building has
both a front and rear public entrance, one additional sign may be erected and
maintained. In calculating the total number of signs on a premises, both
permanent and temporary signs shall be combined in the total. A multi-faced
sign shall count as a single sign. Signs enumerated in §
155.274 shall not be counted in calculating the total.
      (2)   Sign area. Notwithstanding anything else in this section, the total
sign area per premises, including both permanent and temporary signs, shall not
exceed the following:
         (a)   Wall, roof, canopy, and projecting signs. The total square feet
of all walls, roof, and/or projecting signs shall be a sign area of two square
feet for each one linear foot of street frontage shall be allowed not to exceed
50 square feet. Every premises shall be allowed a minimum of 50 square feet of
sign area. Allowable sign area is not transferable from one frontage to
another. An additional 50 square feet of sign area shall be allowed for every
100 feet of street frontage over first 250 feet of street frontage. On corner
lots, each frontage shall be considered unique and separate in calculation sign
area. Multi-faced signs shall be computed as one sign if the signs are parallel
and are part of the same sign structure.
         (b)   Ground/pole signs. The total square feet of all ground/pole
signs shall be a sign area of one square foot for each one linear foot of
street frontage shall be allowed not to exceed 250 square feet. Every premises
shall be allowed a minimum of 50 square feet of sign area. Allowable sign area
is not transferable from one frontage to another. On corner lots, each frontage
shall be considered unique and separate in calculation sign area. Multi-faced
signs shall be computed as one sign if the signs are parallel and are part of
the same sign structure.
      (3)   Sign height. Ground/pole signs shall not exceed a height of 30
feet. Height shall be measured from grade level directly below the face of the
sign to the highest part of the sign.
      (4)   Projecting signs. In addition to the other provisions of this
chapter, the following regulations shall apply to all projecting signs.
         (a)   No projecting sign shall project more than seven feet beyond the
property line in the direction of the street. No portion of any projecting sign
shall be closer than three feet to the face of the street curb or curb line as
measured by a horizontal line from the curb or curb line to a vertical line
parallel to the most projected portion of the sign. In the Central Commercial
District (C-1), signs may project over the state highway and in all other
zoning district, no signs shall project over state highway rights-of-way unless
written permission is given by the appropriate state agency.
         (b)   No portion of any projecting sign shall be less than 14 feet
above grade level if it is projecting over public a right-of way.
         (c)   No single face of a projecting sign shall exceed 32 square feet
in area.
         (d)   No projecting sign shall have a vertical dimension greater than
six feet.
         (e)   There shall be no more than one projecting sign for any premises
unless the premises is located on a corner lot and has public entrances on two
or more public streets, in which case one projecting sign may be erected and
maintained for and toward each public way.
      (5)   Wall signs. In addition to the other provisions of this chapter,
the following regulations shall apply to all wall signs.
         (a)   No wall sign shall extend above the top of the wall upon which
it is placed.
         (b)   No wall sign, or any part thereof, shall project more than 12
inches from the wall upon which it is mounted.
         (c)   No wall sign shall extend beyond the vertical extremities of the
wall to which it is attached.
         (d)   Refer to §
155.275(C)(2) for limits on sign area.
         (e)   A banner sign shall be considered as wall sign. An annual permit
shall be obtained for each banner sign. The banner may be changed as long it
does not exceed the square footage of the approved sign permit.
      (6)   Roof signs. In addition to the other provisions of this subchapter,
the following regulations shall apply to all roof signs.
         (a)   No more than one roof sign may be erected or maintained on a
single premises.
         (b)   All roof signs must be set back a distance of at least four feet
from all the outside walls of the building on or over which they are located.
It is the intention of this provision to provide a clear passageway around the
sign.
      (7)   Ground/pole signs. In addition to the other provisions of this
chapter, the following regulations shall apply to all ground/pole signs.
Ground/pole signs shall be limited to one per street frontage except that
businesses on frontages of 250 feet or more may erect two ground/pole signs
with a minimum of 250 foot spacing between signs. However, the total sign area
of both signs may not exceed that allowed for the street frontage.
   (D)   Miscellaneous signs.
      (1)   In addition to the other provisions of this chapter, the following
regulations shall apply to all miscellaneous signs.
         (a)   In any commercial or industrial district, an area identification
sign may be placed and shall not apply to the limits set forth in division (C)
(2) above. All other provision of this chapter shall apply to any area
identification sign.
         (b)   In any commercial or industrial district, a parasitic sign may
be on a sign structure. The use of a parasitic sign shall be limited to 30
days. A parasitic sign may not be an off-premises sign.
         (c)   In any commercial or industrial zoning district, portable signs
may only be displayed for 15 permit days per calendar year at any one business
location. A separate permit shall be required for each sign. Permits for no
more than two portable signs may be issued at a particular business location if
the permits are of equal duration and run concurrently. Portable signs shall be
secured against overturning.
         (d)   Each subdivision that has been approved in accordance with the
regulations of Chapter 151 shall be allowed one on-premises sign per entrance,
not exceeding 75 square feet in area, advertising the name of such subdivision.
The subdivision sign shall be set back at least five feet from the property
line. The signs should be aesthetically pleasing and blend into the
surroundings.
         (e)   Approved temporary signs related to a community event are only
allowed to be erected 30 days prior to the event and must be removed within ten
days of the conclusion of the event. Temporary signs shall be approved by the
Planning Official for size and location and must substantially conform to the
regulations of this chapter. All non-event temporary sign permits are issued
for 30 days, renewable twice for a maximum of 90 days. The temporary sign must
be removed following the expiration of the temporary sign permit.
         (f)   Home occupation signs shall not exceed six square feet in area,
and shall be limited to one such sign per approved home occupation. A home
occupation shall be allowed to have one wall sign or one freestanding sign. The
freestanding sign shall be located at least five feet from the property line
and have a maximum height of five feet.
      (2)   The following signs shall be allowed without a permit but must
comply with the criteria set forth below.
         (a)   Real estate sale, political campaign, and other noncommercial
speech signs that do not exceed nine square feet in total and, if freestanding,
five feet in height. No more than one such sign per street frontage. Political
campaign signs may be erected 60 days prior to the scheduled date of the
primary election and must be removed not later than seven days after the
candidate is unsuccessful, withdraw, or the general election, whichever comes
first.
         (b)   Businesses working at a residentially zoned lot, such as
landscapers or window treatment installers, may post an identifying sign only
when they are physically at the residence, and the sign shall be removed
immediately when the working party leaves the property. Such sign shall not
exceed nine square feet in total area and, if freestanding, shall not exceed
five feet in height. No more than one such sign per street frontage per lot is
allowed.
         (c)   For each permitted or required parking area that has a capacity
of more than four cars, one sign not exceeding four square feet in area may be
allowed at each entrance to or exit from such parking area. In addition, one
sign not exceeding nine square feet in area is allowed for identifying or
designating the conditions of use of such parking area.
         (d)   Not more than one non-illuminated “for sale” or “for rent” sign
is allowed for the purpose of advertising the sale, rental, or lease of the
premises on which the sign is located. Such sign shall not exceed nine square
feet in size, shall be no more than five feet high and shall be at least five
feet from the property line.
         (e)   For construction on or development of lots, not more than three
“under construction” signs with a combined total area of 70 square feet,
stating the names of contractors, engineers, or architects, is allowed during
the time that construction or development is actively under way.
         (f)   Residential locator or E-911 signs are required for “emergency
911” signs.
         (g)   Directional signs shall not exceed 20 square feet.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.30.060) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.276 APPLICATIONS AND PERMITTING.
   (A)   Every sign permit issued by the Zoning Administrator or designee shall
expire by limitation, and become null and void, if the construction does not
commence within 60 days from date of permit, and shall expire by limitation in
120 days from the date of permit. For good cause, the Director may extend the
time limitations for another 120 days. Any extension granted shall be
accompanied by a fee equal to one-half of the original permit fee paid to the
city. Applications for a sign permit shall be made in writing upon forms
furnished by the city.
   (B)   At a minimum, the following complete information shall be provided
before an application is considered:
      (1)   Name and address of the sign owner and the contractor;
      (2)   Name and address of the property owner where the sign is to be
located;
      (3)   The legal description of the proposed sign location;
      (4)   Clear and legible drawing of the proposed sign to scale with
description of the sign showing construction type and lighting;
      (5)   Site plan showing the location and setbacks on the property where
the sign is to be located;
      (6)   The property owner’s signature; and
      (7)   Other such data and information deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator or her or his designee.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.30.070)
§ 155.277 OUTDOOR LIGHTING FOR OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All lighted outdoor advertising signs/billboards shall meet or exceed
the requirements outlined in §§
155.195 through
155.204.
   (B)   Signs may be illuminated subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Signs that contain, include, or are illuminated by any flashing,
intermittent (less than six seconds) moving light(s) are prohibited.
      (2)   Electronic variable message signs giving public information such
as, but not limited to, time, date, temperature, weather, or other similar
information, and commercial electric variable message signs which function in
the same manner as multi-faced signs are permitted, provided such signs do not
interfere with traffic safety, do not change messages less than every six
seconds and do not resemble or simulate traffic control or safety devices or
signs.
      (3)   Signs must be effectively shielded to prevent beams or rays from
being directed toward any portion of the traveled ways and must not be of such
intensity or brilliance to cause glare or impair the vision of the driver of
any motor vehicle or otherwise interfere with any driver’s operation of a motor
vehicle.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.30.080)
§ 155.278 SIGN MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Any sign existing on the date of adoption of the ordinance codified
herein which does not conform with the provisions of this code, is eligible for
characterization as a “legal nonconforming sign” and is permitted to remain
except as follows.
      (1)   The sign has been removed, relocated, or destroyed.
      (2)   The sign has been brought into compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   The sign is abandoned.
      (4)   The sign may be repaired if the expense of ordinary and customary
maintenance does not exceed 50% of the depreciated value of the sign or if the
same has not been damaged beyond 50% of its depreciated value by an act of God
unless special circumstances warrant a variance by the Board of Adjustment,
such as, but not necessarily limited to acts of vandalism or an accident.
   (B)   (1)   Signs shall be maintained in a safe and legible condition at all
times, including the replacement of defective or damaged parts, painting,
repainting, cleaning, and other services required for maintenance of said
signs.
      (2)   Signs requiring basic maintenance as deemed by the Planning
Official shall be brought into compliance within 30 days upon written notice.
   (C)   (1)   Signs deemed to be unsafe by the Planning Official shall be
removed or brought into compliance within 24 hours upon written notice.
      (2)   Prior to the Planning Official deeming a sign unsafe, he or she
shall obtain a professional opinion from an engineer licensed in the state
stating that, in the best interest of public safety, said sign ought to be
removed or otherwise brought into compliance.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.30.090)
§ 155.279 ENFORCEMENT OF SIGN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   In addition to any and all remedies allowed under the laws of the
state and this chapter, a violation of any requirement of this chapter shall
also be subject to the penalties as outlined in §§
155.390 through
155.407 and §
155.999.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever it shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator that
any sign or sign structure has been constructed or erected or is being
maintained in violation of the terms of this chapter or has been abandoned,
said sign or sign structure is hereby declared to be unlawful.
      (2)   Any sign or sign structure found to be unlawful shall be made to
conform to all applicable laws and regulations or shall be removed at the
expense of the sign owner or landowner (if the sign owner is unknown and
reasonable efforts have been made to locate the sign owner with no success).
   (C)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator may cause to be removed any unlawful
sign or sign structure. The city shall prepare a written notice which shall
describe the sign and specify the violation involved and shall state that if
the sign is not removed or the violation or condition is not corrected within
30 calendar days from the date of the notice, the sign shall be removed in
accordance with the provision of this chapter at the expense to the sign owner
or landowner (if the sign owner is unknown and reasonable efforts have been
made to locate the sign owner with no success).
      (2)   Service of the notice shall be made upon the sign owner and
landowner by mailing a copy of such notice by certified mail, postage prepaid,
return receipt requested. If service is made upon the landowner, service shall
be to the landowner at their address as it appears on the last equalized
assessment role of the county.
      (3)   Any person receiving notice may challenge the determination of the
Zoning Administrator. The person(s) receiving the initial notice will have 14
days to file a written notice of appeal to the Board of Adjustments. Failure by
any person to appeal the notice within that time period shall constitute a
waiver of right to an administrative hearing.
      (4)   The sign owner or landowner, if the sign owner is unknown, shall
have 90 days to remove advertisements for establishments that are no longer in
business.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.30.100)
§ 155.280 PERMITS AND FEES.
   Upon making application for a sign permit, said applicant shall pay the
applicable fee as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by resolution. The
Board of Commissioners may revise the fees as set forth herein from time to
time by resolution.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.30.110)
LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERING REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.295 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of these regulations is to provide for the orderly, safe,
healthful, and aesthetic development of the city and to promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the community.
   (B)   The objectives of these regulations are as follows:
      (1)   To aid in regulating and controlling vehicular and pedestrian
circulation in parking areas;
      (2)   To enhance the environmental and aesthetic conditions of the
community;
      (3)   To protect and enhance the value of property and to provide
wildlife habitat; and
      (4)   To reduce heat and noise, wind and air turbulence, and the glare of
sunlight and vehicle lights, erosion, and air pollution.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.32.010)
§ 155.296 LANDSCAPING REQUIRED.
   Landscaping conforming to the standards set forth in this section shall be
required in the following districts:
   (A)   All residential districts;
   (B)   All commercial districts;
   (C)   All industrial districts; and
   (D)   All planned developments.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.32.020)
§ 155.297 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BERM. An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen
undesirable views, and /or decrease noise.
   CALIPER. Diameter of a tree trunk. The term CALIPER is used for trees less
than 12 inches in diameter. For trees less than four inches in diameter, it is
measured six inches from the ground. For trees between four inches and 12
inches in diameter, it is measured 12 inches from the ground.
   CITY DEPARTMENT. Any and all departments of the city.
   DBH (DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT). The term DBH is used for trees with a
diameter greater than 12 inches and is measured four and one-half feet above
the ground.
   DECIDUOUS. A plant with foliage that is shed annually.
   DEVELOPED AREA.
      (1)   The area of a lot that is disturbed for the purpose of developing
structures, parking facilities, loading or storage areas, paved access to off-
street parking or loading areas or other areas paved with an all-weather
material, or landscaped areas.
      (2)   For the purpose of calculating landscape points, it may be
submitted in the form of the legal description of the property, or a scaled,
dimensioned, and well defined area of development that is referenced on the
site plan.
   DEVELOPER. The legal or beneficial owner of a lot or parcel or any land
proposed for development and/or inclusion in a development, including the owner
of an option, contract to purchase or lease.
   EVERGREEN. A plant with foliage that persists and remains green year-round.
   GROUNDCOVER. An evergreen or deciduous planting less than 24 inches in
height. Turf grass is excluded.
   IRRIGATION SYSTEM. A permanent underground piping and sprinkler head system
designed using industry standard methods to provide uniform irrigation coverage
over a landscaped area.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.
      (1)   A person registered to practice landscape architecture as provided
by the State Board of Technical Professions.
      (2)   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE means the performance of professional
services such as planning, design, preparation of construction drawings and
specifications, including the design and layout of roadways, service areas,
parking areas, walkways, steps, ramps, pools, the location of buildings and
other structures, and the grading of land, surface, and subsoil drainage,
erosion control, planting reforestation, and the preservation of the natural
landscape, in accordance with accepted professional standards.
   LANDSCAPE BUFFER. A combination of living vegetation, such as trees, shrubs,
grasses, or ground cover material planted or transplanted and maintained.
   LANDSCAPE DESIGNER. Any person submitting a landscape plan who is not a
licensed landscape architect, architect, or engineer, shall be “limited to
consultation and preparation of plans and specification with respect to
choosing types of plants and planning the location thereof.”
   LANDSCAPE PLAN. The preparation of graphic and written criteria,
specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the effects of natural
and human-made features such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation,
walks, structures, and other features to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   LANDSCAPED AREA. Any area that contains trees, shrubs, and/or groundcover
that have been claimed for point credits.
   MULCH. An organic material such as seed hulls, pine needles, or tree bark
used to control weed growth, reduce soil erosion, and reduce water loss.
   PARKING LOT. Any off-street, unenclosed ground level facility used for the
purpose of temporary storage of motor vehicles. Enclosed parking facilities,
such as single or multi-story garages or parking facilities constructed within
the confines of a larger building or structure, or parking facilities
associated with single-family and duplex residential development are not
included within this definition.
   PARKING LOT PLANTING. Plantings of hardy trees, shrubs, and/or ground cover
required due to the construction of impervious surface parking to be planted
within and/or around the perimeter of the parking lot area, excluding parking
garages, decks, and covered parking.
   PARKING LOT ISLAND. A planting island contained completely within the
confines of a parking lot.
   PARKING PENINSULA. A planting island that extends out into the parking area
and is bounded on at least one side by the outer edge of the paving or a
building.
   PLANTING PLAN. The preparation of graphic and written criteria of plant
placement, plant specification of type, size, and spacing, and other features
to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   PLANTING SEASON. The most favorable time to plant trees in the city.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another special use.
The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for platting purposes shall mean that every
RIGHT-OF-WAY hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate
and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such RIGHT-OF-WAY and not
included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels.
   SIGHT-PROOF FENCE. A solid opaque fence or wall that is a minimum of six
feet in height and is made of wood, masonry, decorative metal, or other
suitable material in compliance with the Building Code.
   SIGNIFICANT TREE. Any existing tree with a caliper of six inches or greater
that is determined to be in good health by a qualified professional (i.e.,
Urban Forester, Certified Arborist) following guidelines established by the
International Society of Arboriculture.
   SHRUB. A living self-supporting woody deciduous or evergreen species no less
than eight inches in height, and no greater than 15 feet in height, which will
remain full and attractive throughout the year.
   SPECIMEN TREE. A particularly special example of a species because of its
size, age, habit, or any trait that either epitomizes the character of species
or makes the tree an unusual example of its species.
   TREE. A living self-supporting woody or evergreen plant that normally grows
to a minimum height of 15 feet, and which has one or several self-supporting
stems or trunks and numerous branches.
   TREE CLASSIFICATION TERMS. The terms “small tree,” “medium tree,” and “large
tree,” which refer to the size of a tree at the time it is installed or
retained (as outlined in § 155.300(A)(3)), regardless of its species.
   TURF GRASS. Existing or installed grass that has been sodded, seeded, or
hydro-mulched. TURF GRASS eligible for point credits must be located within the
property lines of a development. The maximum credit for turf is 25% of the
total landscape points required for any site. All TURF credited for points
shall completely cover all exposed areas of soil after one full growing season.
   XERISCAPE. A method of landscaping that emphasizes water conservation,
accomplished by following sound horticultural and landscaping practices, such
as planning and design, soil improvement, limited turf areas, use of mulches,
use of low-water demand plants, efficient irrigation practices, and appropriate
maintenance.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.32.030)
§ 155.298 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   All rules, regulations, conditions, and requirements set forth in this
section are applicable as follows:
   (A)   Any development or construction with required yards in all zoning are
subject to these regulations;
   (B)   A final landscape plan shall not be required for single-family or
duplex development;
   (C)   Any alteration to existing building(s), development(s), or
construction that alters the amount of gross floor area of the structure or
building shall be required to come into compliance with landscaping
requirements as follows:
      (1)   Any alteration to existing building(s), development(s), or
construction that alters the amount of gross floor area of the structure or
building shall require a minimum of ten points of landscaping be installed,
plus two points of landscaping for every additional parking space provided for
the building addition;
      (2)   The entire property shall come into compliance with the landscape
code when the size of the building addition exceeds 100% of the size of the
existing structure or building;
      (3)   If the site (including proposed building addition and parking
areas) meets or exceeds current landscape standards, additional landscaping
shall not be required; and
      (4)   If the site has insufficient green space to provide required
landscaping, up to 10% of the number of parking spaces required for a building
addition may be used for landscaping, however point values increase from two to
ten points for each substituted parking space.
   (D)   The property owner, manager, or property owners’ association is
responsible, in perpetuity, for maintaining all landscaping by keeping lawns
mowed, all plants properly groomed and maintained as disease-free, and planting
beds groomed, except in naturally occurring dense growths of underbrush or
shrubs;
   (E)   An inspection of all plantings to ensure compliance with the submitted
landscape plan is required prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy;
   (F)   (1)   Nothing herein shall affect in any way the rights of, or
exercise by, any public utility or city department of its present and future
acquired rights to clear trees and other growth from lands used by the public
utility or city department.
      (2)   The utility or city department shall cooperate and coordinate with
the city when clearing or pruning in the rights-of-way.
   (G)   Landscaping within rights-of-way;
      (1)   Up to 25% of the required landscaping may be placed in the street
right-of-way. The type and location of vegetation shall not interfere with
utilities and the safe and efficient flow of street traffic. Approval by the
appropriate city departments responsible for street and utilities shall be
required; and
      (2)   No trees or shrubs shall be placed in the sight triangle for street
intersection or street and driveway intersections as required in the §
155.182.
   (H)   Nothing herein shall reduce the lines of sight and traffic visibility
standards adopted in this chapter. Plantings within 25 feet of an intersection
shall not exceed a height of 18 inches;
   (I)   All pervious surface areas of public and private parks, playgrounds,
playing fields, and other outdoor recreation facilities shall be excluded from
the calculation of site points as required by these regulations;
   (J)   Property owners in all zoning districts shall be responsible for
landscaping the area between the street rights-of-way line and the curb-line.
In addition, this area shall not be hard-surfaced, other than a permitted
driveway or sidewalk, and it shall not be used for parking;
   (K)   Any plant material shall meet the size requirements in §
155.300(A)(3);
   (L)   Turf grass shall be planted in such a manner as to completely cover
all exposed areas of soil after one full growing season;
   (M)   No disturbed ground shall be left exposed. Grass and other approved
and appropriate ground covers or mulch shall cover all non-paved and non-built
developed area; and
   (N)   The homeowner, property owner, manager, property owners’ association,
or homeowners’ association shall:
      (1)   Maintain the landscaping by keeping lawns mowed, all plants
properly groomed and maintained as disease-free, and planting beds groomed,
except in naturally occurring dense growths of shrubs or undergrowth; and
      (2)   Replace any required planting(s), which have been removed, are
diseased, or no longer living within one year or the first planting season,
whichever occurs first, except those in naturally occurring dense growths of
shrubs or undergrowth.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.32.040; Ord. passed 2-16-2017)
§ 155.299 LANDSCAPE PLAN APPROVAL STEPS.
 
       Calculate Points. Determine the number of Site Points required for
STEP 1 development, based on the size of the Developed Area, and the number of
       Parking Lot Points based on the number of parking spaces.
STEP 2 Determine Plant Requirements. Determine the quantity, type, and size of
       plant materials needed to meet point requirements.
STEP 3 Determine Additional Requirements. Determine whether Residential,
       Subdivision or other buffers apply to the development.
       Develop a landscape plan. Develop a landscape or planting plan with
STEP 4 plantings that meet point requirements, including any applicable buffer
       (s).
 
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.32.050)
§ 155.300 LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Planting requirements/point system.
      (1)   The developer may use any combination of plantings to obtain the
necessary number of points required for the development. Different lots and
landscapes will lend themselves to different types of plantings. These
regulations attempt to encourage creativity and diversity in landscaping.
      (2)   Landscaping within any developed area must equal or exceed a
minimum number of points in order to obtain approval. Site points are
determined by the size of the developed area, and parking lot points are
determined by the number of parking spaces.
         (a)   Number of points required for the developed area are as follows.
 
Size of Developed Area      Number of Points Required
                            Site Points = 25
1 to 5,000 square feet      Parking Lot Points = Two points per required
                            parking space and one point for each proposed
                            additional parking space
                            Site Points = 25, plus one point for each
                            additional 200 square feet of developed area
More than 5,000 square feet Parking Lot Points = Two points per required
                            parking space and one point for each proposed
                            additional parking space
 
         (b)   Exemptions from site points for the developed area include:
            1.   Industrial use units, and transportation facilities: the
number of required points shall be derived from the parking space calculation
only (three points per each required parking space).;
            2.   Single-Family and Duplex Residential; and
            3.   Developments within C-1.
         (c)   When only a portion of a large tract is developed (e.g., one
acre of a ten-acre tract), only the developed area shall be considered when
determining the number of points required.
         (d)   Examples of retail development are as follows.
                        Developed Area = 20,000 square feet
Description of Property Required Parking Spaces = 20
                        Proposed Parking Spaces = 30
                        Site Points for sites over 5,000 square feet require
                        25 points plus one point for each additional 200
Requirements            square feet.
                        Parking Lot Plantings require two points for each
                        required parking space and one point for each
                        additional parking space.
                        Site Points for 5,000 square feet        25
                        Additional 15,000 square feet (÷ by 200)+ 75
                        Site Points                              = 100
Calculation of Points   Two points x 20 required parking spaces  40
                        One point x 10 additional parking spaces + 10
                        Parking Lot Points                       = 50
                        Total Points Required (100 Site Points + 150
                        50 Parking Lot Points)
 
      (3)   Landscaping point values are as follows.
Type of Plant Material Minimum Size (at time of planting) Point Value
Type of Plant      Minimum Size (at time of planting)    Point Value
Material
Large Tree         8-inch or greater caliper             26
                   7-inch caliper                        24
                   6-inch caliper                        22
                   5-inch caliper                        20
                   4-inch caliper   11-12 feet height    18
                   3-inch caliper   9-10 feet height     15
Medium Tree        2-inch caliper   7-8 feet height      12
                   Single trunk: 1- 5-6 feet height      9
Small Tree or      inch caliper
Ornamental Tree    Multiple Trunk (minimum 3 trunks): 6-
                   foot height, and the smallest trunk   9
                   1-inch caliper minimum
Large Shrub        5 gallon, 24-inch height at planting  3
Medium Shrub       3 gallon, 12-inch height at planting  2
Small Shrub        2 gallon, 8-inch height at planting   1
Ornamental Grasses 1 gallon                              1/2
Groundcover        1 gallon                              1/4
                   4-inch pots                           1/2
Existing           6-inch caliper (see 7-42)             22 to 50
Significant Tree
Landscaped Berm    30-inch height; 10-foot length, 3:    1 per 5 linear foot
                   1 slope
Turf Grass         N/A                                   1/4 per square yard
 
      (4)   A minimum of 60% of required points shall be used for landscaping
in the front and side yards;
      (5)   A minimum of 25% of required points shall be used for evergreen
plantings; and
      (6)   A maximum of 25% of required points may be used for turf grass.
   (B)   Landscaping requirements for single-family residential and
manufactured home residential use units in the following districts: R-1, R-2,
R-3.
      (1)   All required perimeter yards shall be landscaped. The landscaping
of these yards shall, at a minimum, consist of a combination of living
vegetation, such as trees, shrubs, grasses or ground cover materials, planted
or transplanted and maintained, or preserved as existing natural vegetation
areas (e.g., woods or thickets).
      (2)   Within the perimeter yards, there shall be at least one medium tree
planted and/or maintained for every 75 feet, or fraction thereof, of frontage
with a minimum of one tree per lot.
   (C)   All non-residential and commercial use units in the following
districts: R-1, R-2, R-3, C-1, GI, and PD.
      (1)   All required front, side, and rear yards shall be landscaped,
except walkways, parking, pertinent equipment, drainage utilities, and other
accessory structures permitted by this subchapter. The landscaping of these
yards shall consist of a combination of living vegetation, such as trees,
shrubs, grasses, or ground cover materials, planted or transplanted and
maintained, or preserved as existing natural vegetation areas (e.g., woods or
thickets).
      (2)   All trees and shrubs shall be planted, maintained, or transplanted
in accordance with the standards of the American Standard for Nursery Stock (a
copy of which is on file in the city office). All newly planted trees and
shrubs shall be mulched and maintained to give a clean and weed-free
appearance.
   (D)   Required landscaping for industrial use units, and transportation
facilities in the following districts: C-1, GI, and PD.
      (1)   (a)   For each required parking space, three points shall be used
to plant parking lot plantings.
         (b)   If the parking lot is located in the rear of the building, up to
50% of the parking lot points may be used along public frontage or around the
building.
      (2)   For industrial development abutting a street designated as a
freeway or expressway by the street plan, landscaping shall be provided
according to the following:
         (a)   For each 20 linear feet, or fraction thereof, of that portion of
the developed area abutting a freeway/expressway right-of-way, at least one
medium tree shall be planted on the developed area. The tree shall be planted
within 20 feet of the right-of-way.
         (b)   A vegetative buffer consisting of trees, shrubs, and/or berms
shall be provided around all parking lots and outside storage areas not
screened by buildings from the freeway/expressway. The vegetative buffer shall
be at least three feet in height and shall be placed along the freeway/
expressway frontage of the parking lots and outside storage areas.
      (3)   (a)   For industrial development abutting a street other than a
freeway or expressway, landscaping shall be provided according to the
following:
         (b)   For each 40 linear feet or fraction thereof, of that portion of
the developed area abutting a street right-of-way, at least one medium tree
shall be planted on the developed area. The tree shall be planted within 20
feet of the right-of-way.
      (4)   Uses within the ILR or IH District, when located across any street
from any use other than industrial, shall provide a continuous five-foot
minimum landscape buffer on the outside of any required fence.
   (E)   Automotive parking lot landscape requirements for the following
districts: R-1, R-2, R-3, C-1, GI, and PD.
      (1)   The purpose of parking lot islands and/or parking lot peninsulas is
to help reduce glare and heat buildup; to promote interior islands for
pedestrian safety and traffic separation; to visually break up large expanses
of pavement; and to reduce surface runoff.
      (2)   All non-covered, street-level parking facilities established and
governed by this subchapter shall be landscaped in accordance with the
following requirements.
         (a)   In addition to the number of site points required, two
additional points are added to the site for each required parking space. Any
proposed parking space in excess of the number of required spaces shall require
one point of landscaping. These points must be used to plant parking lot
plantings. The plantings may be located:
            1.   Around the perimeter of the lot to provide a uniform and
attractive design; and/or
            2.   Within parking lot islands, peninsulas, and/or landscaped
areas within the developed parking lot.
         (b)   Each parking lot island and/or peninsula shall be a minimum of
171 square feet (the minimum area of a single parking space) with a minimum
average width of five feet.
         (c)   Each parking lot island and/or peninsula shall contain a minimum
of one tree.
         (d)   The distance between any parking space and a landscaped area
shall be no more than 75 feet.
         (e)   Required parking lot plantings shall be in-ground and not placed
upon a paved surface.
         (f)   All parking lot planting areas shall be protected with concrete
curbs, or equivalent barriers. Bumper blocks shall not be used for boundaries
around the landscaped area.
         (g)   Each tree shall be planted a minimum of two feet away from the
outside of any permanent barrier of a landscaped area or edge of the parking
area.
         (h)   Ground cover or grasses shall be planted to cover each parking
lot planting area within three years from the date of issuance of the
certificate of occupancy. All ground cover shall have a mature height of not
more than 24 inches. Loose rock, gravel, decorative rock or stone, or mulch
shall not exceed 20% of the parking lot planting area.
         (i)   Space devoted to required parking lot planting areas shall be in
addition to any required front, side, and rear yard buffer requirements.
         (j)   Stand-alone parking lots shall require two points of landscaping
for each parking space.
   (F)   Exceptions to automotive parking lot landscaping requirements. The
requirements of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Parking garages or parking decks;
      (2)   Display areas for uses in the following use units:
         (a)   Automotive sales and rentals;
         (b)   Automotive and equipment: sales and rentals, light equipment;
and
         (c)   Automotive and equipment: sales and rentals, farm and heavy
equipment.
      (3)   Parking lots of existing developments, legally established prior to
the adoption of these regulations, unless there is additional square footage
added to the parking area, in which case, one point worth of landscaping shall
be added for each additional proposed parking space.
   (G)   Sight-proof screening and security fences.
      (1)   For properties located in multi-family, office, or commercial or
industrial districts, a sight-proof fence on the front property line and/or
side property line(s) abutting a street may be erected, provided a five-foot
wide landscape buffer shall be required on the outside of the fence.
      (2)   A security fence in the front yard, not to exceed a height of eight
feet, may be erected when permitted in industrial zoned districts and
neighborhood and public utility facilities. Such security fences may be topped
with strands of barbed wire when the height of the barbed wire is over six feet
from grade. When located on a property across any street from residential,
office, and commercial zoned districts, a five-foot wide landscape buffer
located on the outside of the fence shall be required.
      (3)   When property within an industrial zoned district, or neighborhood
and public utility facilities is separated by a local residential, collector,
or arterial street from a residential district or use, no industrial use shall
be made of the property until the owner/developer has erected sight-proof fence
along a side or rear property line or along the front building or property
line. In such cases, a five-foot wide landscape buffer, located on the outside
of the fence shall be required on the front and side property lines. If there
is any outdoor work, sales, display, and/or storage areas in the required front
yard, a sight-proof fence and a five-foot wide landscape buffer, located on the
outside of the fence, shall be required along the front property line.
      (4)   Sight-proof screening or fencing required for any landscape buffer
may be credited with two landscape points per every 20 linear feet if
constructed of upgraded building materials, such as masonry (limited to brick,
split-face concrete block, stone, or cultured stone), decorative pre-cast
concrete fence systems, or decorative iron.
   (H)   Residential buffers.
      (1)   On any office, commercial, industrial, planned development, or
multi-family development (three or more units) adjacent to a single-family or
duplex residential district or use, a landscaped buffer along the property line
(s) of the developing property is required. The buffer shall run the entire
length of the abutting lot line(s).
      (2)   The type of buffer may consist of any or all of the following:
         (a)   A solid fence not less than six feet in height, with either:
            1.   A landscape buffer, minimum five feet in width, located on the
inside of the fence; or
            2.   Trees spaced 25 feet on center.
         (b)   A landscaped buffer no less than six feet in width, planted with
a series of evergreen plantings at least six feet in height and spaced in a
manner to provide an impervious visual barrier; or
         (c)   A natural, undisturbed wooded area at least 20 feet in width.
   (I)   Subdivision buffers. All residential developments adjacent to arterial
streets shall provide a landscaped buffer, located on the outside of any
subdivision fence, consisting of any combination of trees, shrubs,
groundcovers, earthen berms, and/or rock or stone accents, arranged in a manner
to achieve visual continuity.
      (1)   The buffer shall contain a minimum of four points for every 20 feet
of frontage.
      (2)   If the buffer is provided within the right-of-way, it shall be
located within ten feet of the property line along the entire adjacent public
street frontage, exclusive of driveways and accessways at points of ingress and
egress.
      (3)   No trees, shrubs, fences, berms, or other landscape improvements
that would impede visibility shall be located in sight triangles.
      (4)   The type and location of plantings within the public rights-of-way
shall not interfere with utilities. Plantings whose mature height exceeds 15
feet shall not be planted beneath overhead utility lines. Approval by the
appropriate city departments responsible for street and utilities shall be
required.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.32.060)
§ 155.301 LANDSCAPE PLANS.
   At the time of submission for a building permit, and also at the time of
application for all planned developments and conditional use permits, a
landscape plan, separate and apart from other required plans, shall be
submitted and made a part of the file. No landscape plans are required for
single-family or two-family residential developments.
   (A)   Landscape plans may be prepared by any of the following:
      (1)   A planting plan may be submitted by any person, provided the plan
is limited to plant specification and placement only;
      (2)   A landscape architect registered in the state; and
      (3)   A licensed architect or professional engineer licensed in the
state, provided the services are incidental to the performance of his or her
normal practice as an architect or engineer.
   (B)   All landscape plans shall include the following information:
      (1)   North arrow and scale;
      (2)   The location of existing property lines and dimensions of the
tract, accurately drawn to scale;
      (3)   Exact locations and outline of all rights-of-way (both existing and
proposed by the street plan of streets);
      (4)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings and parking
areas, including the exact number of parking spaces provided;
      (5)   The location and size of any permanent fixture or structure,
including but not limited to sidewalks, walls, fences, trash enclosures,
project storage, lighting fixtures, signs, and benches which are relevant to
the landscape plan;
      (6)   (a)   The location, size, and type of all above-ground and
underground public utilities with notation, where appropriate, as to any safety
hazards to avoid during installation of landscaping; and
         (b)   Alternatively, a letter of no objection provided by the utility
company may be provided.
      (7)   The location, size, type, spacing (on center), and quantity of all
proposed plant materials and existing plant materials credited for points shall
be graphically represented and referenced on the plan by a common name and an
appropriate key of all plant species;
      (8)   Detailed sprinkler diagram or irrigation plan showing coverage. If
an automatic irrigation system is not proposed, the location of all required
hose connections and other watering sources shall be noted;
      (9)   All screening required by these regulations; and
      (10)   A table listing the square footage of the developed area, number
of proposed parking spaces, and all plant materials by common name, size, type,
quantity, and point value and totals.
   (C)   Consideration should be given to the location of trees so that when
they reach mature height, they do not interfere with utility wires. In
addition, as required in other sections of this code, property owners shall
keep vegetation trimmed so that it does not obstruct the free, convenient, and
safe travel over and along streets and sidewalks.
   (D)   A certificate of occupancy, for any use, shall not be issued until the
required landscaping has been installed in accordance with the landscape plan,
and it shall be illegal for any person, firm, or corporation to occupy or
operate a business in any new structure or building addition for which
landscaping, as shown by the plans, is not provided; except that, if a
structure and all site improvements are complete except for the required
landscaping, and it is not the planting season (May through September),
temporary occupancy may be permitted for a period of six months, or until the
next planting season, whichever comes first. If the required landscaping has
not been completed by the required time, the property owner shall be in
violation of this chapter and subject to the penalties set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.32.070) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.302 LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The property owner shall be responsible for the irrigation of all
required landscape areas and plant materials, with exception of natural areas
and xeriscape plantings, utilizing one or a combination of the following
methods:
      (1)   An automatic or manual underground irrigation system (conventional
spray, bubbler, and the like), equipped with a rain and freeze sensors;
      (2)   An automatic water-saving irrigation system (drip, porous pipe,
leaky pipes, and the like) equipped with a rain and freeze sensors; and
      (3)   A hose attachment within 100 feet of all required landscape areas
and plant materials.
   (B)   The irrigation method used shall be in place and operational at the
time of the landscape inspection for certificate of occupancy; and shall be
maintained and kept operational at all times to provide for efficient water
distribution.
   (C)   Landscape areas utilizing xeriscape plants and installation techniques
may use a temporary and above-ground system and shall be required to provide
irrigation for the first three years only.
   (D)   Landscape plans shall indicate, by a detail, a drawing or, by
specification in a note on the site plan, the type and location of irrigation
that will be used. Plans should be specific enough to show that adequate
irrigation would be provided to all required landscape areas and plant
materials.
   (E)   No irrigation shall be required for undisturbed natural areas or
undisturbed existing trees.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.32.080)
§ 155.303 EXISTING TREE CREDIT.
   In order to encourage the preservation of the city’s older trees, credits
toward required points may be given in the event existing trees are preserved.
   (A)   Landscape points shall be applied for each existing significant tree
of the following sizes.
Size of Existing Significant Tree Landscape Points Applied
Size of Existing Significant Tree Landscape Points Applied
6-inch caliper                    22
7-inch caliper                    24
8-inch to 10-inch caliper         26
10.1-inch caliper to 15-inch DBH  30
15.1-inch to 20-inch DBH          35
20.1-inch to 25-inch DBH          40
Over 25-inch DBH                  50
 
   (B)   Trees for which an owner/developer wishes to receive credit must be in
the developed area; however, no more than 25% of the total points may be
located within the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Any significant tree claimed for points that dies during construction,
or as a result of construction, shall be replaced with a tree (or trees) to
equal or exceed the point of value of the lost tree.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.32.090)
§ 155.304 HEALTH, SAFETY, AND AESTHETIC BARRIERS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever property in one zoning category abuts property of a
more restrictive zoning category and the property in the less restrictive
category is being developed, the Zoning Administrator may require, as a
condition of the building permit, such barriers be constructed by the developer
as are deemed necessary and appropriate for the protection of the more
restrictive area.
      (2)   The zoning from most restrictive to least restrictive is as
follows: AG, R-1, R-2, R-3, C-1, and GI and in any planned development with
similar uses. Such devices may include fences, hedges, traffic controls and
patterns, or any other device reasonably necessary to attain the goals sought.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY OF ONE ZONING CATEGORY shall
be deemed to abut another zoning category whenever two properties directly
abut.
   (B)   The division (A) above shall not apply to of an R-2 property abutting
an R-1 district.
   (C)   In commercial and industrial districts, outside storage of goods or
materials shall be prohibited in any area on the street frontage of a building.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.32.100)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 155.315 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming uses, buildings, and structures and to specify those
circumstances under which they shall be permitted to continue.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.34.010)
§ 155.316 CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the lawful use of a premises
or a building or structure existing immediately prior to the effective date of
the ordinance codified herein or any amendment thereto may be continued
although such use does not conform to the provisions hereof except as otherwise
provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.34.020)
§ 155.317 CHANGE OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   (1)   If no structural alterations or additions are made, a
nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming permitted use of the
same or a more restrictive classification.
      (2)   For the purposes of this chapter, each of the following
classifications shall be considered to be MORE RESTRICTIVE:
         (a)   Agricultural;
         (b)   Single-Family Residential;
         (c)   One- and Two-Family Residential;
         (d)   Multi-Family Residential;
         (e)   General Commercial; and
         (f)   General Industrial.
   (B)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a more restrictive
use or to a permitted use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less
restrictive use.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.34.030)
§ 155.318 EXTENSION OR ENLARGEMENT.
   (A)   Definition. A nonconforming use shall not be enlarged, extended,
converted, reconstructed, or structurally altered unless such use is changed to
a use permitted in the district in which the premises is located or required to
do so by law or order.
   (B)   Exception. However, if a building or structure is legally conforming
as to use, but legally nonconforming as to yards or height or off-street
parking space, the building or structure may be enlarged or added to, provided
that the enlargement or addition complies with the off-street parking
requirements of the district in which the building or structure is located and
further does not encroach into any required setback beyond the building line
established by the existing building or structure.
   (C)   Restrictions.
      (1)   No legally nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in
whole or in part to another location on the lot unless every portion of the
building or structure is made to conform to all of the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the expansion of the legal
nonconforming use if the property is for a single-family dwelling and any
expanded use complies with yard, height, lot coverage, and use requirements for
R-1 Zoning.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.34.040)
§ 155.319 RESTORATION AFTER DAMAGE.
   (A)   When the use of a building is nonconforming as defined by this title
and such a building is damaged by a fire, explosion, act of God, or the public
enemy to the extent of more than 50% of its fair market value, it shall not be
restored except in conformity with the provisions of the district in which the
building is located.
   (B)   When damaged by less than 50% of its value, a legal nonconforming
building may be repaired or reconstructed, and used as before the time of
damage, provided such repairs or reconstruction are completed within one year
of the date of such damage.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.34.050)
§ 155.320 DISCONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   In the event that a nonconforming use is discontinued for more than one
year, the Board of Commissioners may adopt, after notice by certified mail to
the property owners, an amortization schedule to bring about the gradual
elimination of such nonconforming use.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.34.060)
§ 155.321 EFFECT ON USE WHICH IS ILLEGAL UNDER PRIOR LAW.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as authorization for, or
approval of, the continuance of the use of a premises in violation of zoning
regulations in effect immediately prior to the effective date of the ordinance
codified herein or any amendment thereto.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.34.070)
§ 155.322 EXISTING SMALL LOTS.
   Where an individual lot is held in separate ownership and complies with all
applicable zoning and subdivision requirements, except for the minimum lot size
requirement of the zoning district in which it is located, such lot may be
developed for any permitted uses or conditional uses specified in that zoning
district except for duplex or multi-family development.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.34.080)
AUTHORIZING CONDITIONAL USES
§ 155.335 GENERAL.
   (A)   The city recognizes that diversity and the blending of compatible uses
is essential to a healthy and dynamic community.
   (B)   Toward that end, the following procedure is established to properly
integrate conditional uses with permitted uses in the district.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Board may authorize by conditional use permit
the uses designated in this chapter when located in a zoning district allowing
such use.
   (D)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall impose such conditions as are
appropriate and necessary to ensure compliance with the Comprehensive Plan and
protect the health, safety, and general welfare in the issuance of such
conditional use permit.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.36.010)
§ 155.336 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A property owner or a designated representative may apply to the city
for a conditional use, using forms available from the Zoning Administrator. If
the request is by a designated representative, the designation shall be in
writing, signed by the property owner, and filed with the application fees.
   (B)   (1)   An applicant shall submit a preliminary development/
redevelopment plan to the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (2)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   The location and legal description of the property;
         (b)   Position, size, and use of all structures, improvements, and
facilities to be constructed/reconstructed;
         (c)   Location of all points of ingress and egress and internal
traffic circulation pattern;
         (d)   If applicable, landscape, lighting, and drainage plan;
         (e)   Parking plan; and
         (f)   Such other architectural and engineering data as may be required
by the Planning and Zoning Board.
   (C)   The city shall set a date for public hearing on the request. Said date
for the public hearing shall be a day when the Planning and Zoning Board is
regularly scheduled to meet as determined by the rules, policies, and
regulations as adopted or which may hereafter be adopted by the Planning and
Zoning Board for holding public hearings on such requests, or the Planning and
Zoning Board may designate a special meeting at which to hear a requested
conditional use application. The Planning and Zoning Board shall act on all
applications within 90 days of submission of the application, or the
application shall automatically be approved; provided, however, that, the
applicant may waive this requirement in writing and consent to the extension of
the period.
   (D)   Notification of surrounding property owners, tenants, and interested
parties shall be accomplished by the following.
      (1)   A sign noting the fact that a conditional use permit request is
pending shall be posted on the site not less than ten calendar days before the
public hearing before the Planning and Zoning Board. The sign shall be
maintained on the site until the final action has taken action on the request
or the petition is withdrawn. Approved signs shall be secured from the city who
shall require a reasonable deposit sufficient to cover the cost of replacement
of the sign or signs and who shall determine the number and location of the
sign or signs to be posted on the site addressed in the petition for
conditional use permit.
      (2)   The petitioner shall submit postal receipts to demonstrate a good
faith attempt to notify by certified letter with return receipt all property
owners within 250 feet, inclusive of public right-of-way, of the site measured
from the perimeter of the lot or lots which contain the buildings and area
dedicated to the proposed use. The certified mailings shall include the date
set for the hearing before the Planning and Zoning Board and contemplated uses,
and shall be on a form provided by the city. The property owners listing shall
be prepared by the city and based on the County Director of Equalization office
records of ownership and addresses. Notices are to be sent by the applicant to
all parties on the aforementioned list by certified mail with return receipt
requested no less than ten calendar days prior to the public hearing on the
request held by the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall hold its public hearing, having
given ten days notice of the date, place, and time of the hearing in the city’s
designated legal newspaper.
   (E)   The Planning and Zoning Board may impose such conditions regarding the
location, character, or other features of the proposed use or buildings as it
may deem advisable in the furtherance of the general purposes of this chapter.
The Planning and Zoning Board shall makes its decision, fully setting forth its
findings and conditions, if any, for approval. Any decision to grant a
conditional uses shall be based upon and accompanied by a statement regarding:
      (1)   The objectives of the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   The purpose of this chapter and its relevant zoning districts when
making a decision to approve or disapprove a conditional use permit; and
      (3)   The following conditional use standards:
         (a)   The location, character, and natural features of the property;
         (b)   The location, character, and design of adjacent buildings;
         (c)   Proposed fencing, screening, and landscaping;
         (d)   Proposed vegetation, topography, and natural drainage;
         (e)   Proposed pedestrian and vehicular access, circulation, and
parking, including that related to bicycles and other unpowered vehicles and
provisions for handicapped persons;
         (f)   Existing traffic and traffic to be generated by the proposed
use;
         (g)   Proposed signs and lighting;
         (h)   The availability of public utilities and services;
         (i)   The objectives of the adopted Comprehensive Plan and the purpose
of the ordinance codified herein;
         (j)   The overall density, yard height, and other requirements of the
zone in which it is located;
         (k)   The effects of noise, odor, smoke, dust, air, and water
pollution and the degree of control through the use of clarifiers, screening,
setbacks, and orientation; and
          (l)   The degree to which conditions imposed will mitigate any
probable adverse impacts of the proposed use on existing adjacent uses.   
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.36.020)
§ 155.337 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   The decision rendered by the Planning and Zoning Board on a
conditional use permit may be appealed to the Board of Commissioners. Any
person or party has the right to appeal the decision of the Planning and Zoning
Board regarding any conditional use permit.
      (2)   Appeals must be made in writing and filed with the city by close of
business on the fifth working day from the Planning Commission’s decision. When
an official appeal has been filed, the Board of Commissioners shall conduct a
public hearing to act on all applications which have been appealed to them for
public hearing as provided in this section.
   (B)   Upon the filing of any appeal of the Planning Commission’s decision of
a conditional use permit with the Planning Department, the applicant shall pay
to the city an administration fee of $100.
   (C)   Upon the filing of any appeal of a Planning and Zoning Board decision
of a conditional use permit, the city shall set a date for public hearing on
the request. Said date for the public hearing shall within 30 days of the
appeal and shall be a day when the Board of Commissioners is regularly
scheduled to meet.
   (D)   The city shall mail a notification of the appeal to all land owners as
identified in the original mailing as required in §
155.336(D)(2). Notices are to be sent by the city to all parties on the
aforementioned list by first class mail no less than ten calendar days prior to
the public hearing on the request held by the Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners shall review the decisions and
recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Board of all applications coming
before the Board of Commissioners as provided in this chapter.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners, in making its determination of such
applications, may make changes in accordance with or in rejection or
modification of the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Board. Any
modification to the Planning and Zoning Board decision shall be in compliance
to the conditional use permit criteria stated in §
155.336(E) inclusively.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.36.030)
§ 155.338 GOVERNING BODY PERCENTAGE OF VOTE REQUIRED FOR APPROVAL OF
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   Whenever a vote of the Planning and Zoning Board as set forth in this
chapter is necessary for the approval of a conditional use permit, such
approval shall be obtained by receiving the affirmative vote of not less than a
majority (51%) of the Planning and Zoning Board members in attendance and
voting. Whenever a vote of the Board of Commissioners is required under this
chapter pursuant to an appeal of a conditional use permit matter, any decision
approving the conditional use permit application on appeal, with modifications
or otherwise, shall be obtained by receiving the affirmative vote of a majority
(51%) of the Board of Commissioners in attendance and voting.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.36.31; Ord. 2.01C, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 155.339 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Approved plans shall not be changed, modified, or altered without
authorization from the Planning and Zoning Board giving final approval, and all
work shall be completed and enforced in accordance with the approved plans. The
conditions of approval of a conditional use permit may be amended.
   (B)   Amendments are considered major or minimal and are addressed in the
following manner.
      (1)   Major amendments shall be processed in the same manner as required
for a separate conditional use permit. A major amendment is required when:
         (a)   A change to specific stipulations addressed in the initial
approval or a subsequent amendment;
         (b)   The structure and/or occupied site is substantially enlarged. A
structure is considered to be substantially enlarged when the gross square
footage increases by 20% or 2,000 square feet, whichever is less. The land or
site which supports the use is considered to be substantially enlarged when the
gross square footage of the occupied site increases by 10% or 10,000 square
feet, whichever is less; and
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator determines that the proposed change is
major and requires public hearing review.
      (2)   (a)   Minimal amendments must be reviewed and approved by the
Zoning Administrator. A minimal amendment involves a change to the site plan
affecting any or all of the following: parking, circulation, landscaping, and
lot coverage by buildings or building setbacks.
         (b)   The Director shall determine that the proposed modification to
the site will not have a significant adverse impact on neighboring properties,
the street network, or the appearance of the property in approving a minimal
amendment.
         (c)   The Director shall consider the criteria outlined in §
155.336(E) inclusively to determine if the proposed modifications still meet
the requirements of a conditional use permit.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall file a memorandum explaining the
changes with the original conditional use permit file or major amendment file.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.36.040)
§ 155.340 EXPIRATION AND RENOVATIONS.
   (A)   A conditional use permit approved shall expire if the primary use
proposed under the conditional use permit has not been undertaken and completed
according to the terms and conditions of the conditional use permit within two
years of the approval of the conditional use permit. A conditional use permit
is considered approved upon the effective date of the Planning and Zoning Board
or Board of Commissioners’ action, resolution, or ordinance relating thereto.
   (B)   A conditional use permit approved shall expire one year after the use
discontinues on the premises.
   (C)   The use is changed to another permitted use in the underlying
district.
   (D)   Upon written request to the Director and prior to the conditional use
permit expiration date, the Director shall place the extension request on the
next regular scheduled Planning Commission meeting. The Planning and Zoning
Board may extend the period of the conditional use permit where it is warranted
in light of the relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to the size
and phasing of the development, economic cycles, and market conditions. The
Planning and Zoning Board may grant one two-year extension to the original
conditional use permit or major amendment. If a longer extension is requested,
the extension shall be processed as a major amendment and shall follow all
procedures required in §
155.339(B)(1).
   (E)   (1)   A conditional use permit may be revoked only for cause
consisting of failure to maintain the standards required for the conditional
use permit.
      (2)   A notice of intent to revoke a conditional use permit shall be
given in writing 30 days prior to actual revocation and shall specify the area
or areas of continued failure to meet requirements and maintain conditions the
city may have imposed.
      (3)   If, during that period, proof of compliance is made by the holder
of the conditional use permit, the conditional use permit shall be continued in
force.
      (4)   If a hearing has been requested following receipt of notice of
intent to revoke, the Planning and Zoning Board shall hold a public hearing on
the matter and make a final determination on the revocation.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.36.050)
§ 155.341 DENIAL OF REQUEST.
   In the event the request for a conditional use permit is denied by the
Planning and Zoning Board or the Board of Commissioners, re-application shall
not be permitted for a period of one year, unless the Zoning Administrator
determines that the request has substantially changed.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.36.060)
AMENDMENTS
§ 155.355 STANDARDS FOR AMENDMENTS.
   A proposed amendment shall be considered on its own merits using the
following criteria as a guide.
   (A)   Text or map amendments. Proposed amendments shall:
      (1)   Be necessary because of substantially changed or changing
conditions of the area and district affected, or in this chapter generally;
      (2)   Be consistent with the intent and purposes of this chapter;
      (3)   Not directly or indirectly adversely affect any other part of this
chapter; and
      (4)   Be consistent with and not in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Errors or oversights as may be found in this chapter as originally
adopted shall be corrected under the normal amendment procedure.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.38.010)
§ 155.356 TEXT AMENDMENTS.
   Text amendment requests shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
Requests may be initiated by the Planning and Zoning Board or Board of
Commissioners.
   (A)   Proposed amendment. The proposed amendment shall be presented at a
regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning and Zoning Board, at which time the
Board may initiate a study of the amendment. If no study is deemed necessary, a
public hearing shall be set.
   (B)   Hearing by the Planning and Zoning Board. The Planning and Zoning
Board shall publish legal notice not less than ten days prior to the public
hearing. At the close of the public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Board
shall forward its recommendation to the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Hearing by Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners shall
publish legal notice not less than ten days prior to the public hearing on the
amendment. After taking into account all pertinent information and the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Board, the Board of Commissioners
shall make a final determination within 30 days from the date of the hearing.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.38.020)
§ 155.357 REZONING REQUESTS.
   An application for a rezoning shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
Rezoning requests may be initiated by either the property owner or a designated
representative or by an appropriate governmental agency. If by a designated
representative, the designation shall be in writing, signed by the property
owner, and filed with the application.
   (A)   Appearance. The applicant shall appear before the Planning and Zoning
Board to present the application, at which time the Planning and Zoning Board
may initiate a study of the request. If in the opinion of the Planning and
Zoning Board a study is not required, a public hearing shall be set.
   (B)   Notification procedure. The applicant shall notify by certified
letter, at least ten days in advance of the public hearing, the owners of
equity of all property in the city limits within 250 feet, inclusive of streets
and alleys, from any part of the property subject to the rezoning, of the date,
place, and time of the public hearing. Such notification shall fully set forth
a description of the development plan for the property, if any, in the event
the rezoning request is approved.
   (C)   Hearing by the Planning and Zoning Board. The Planning and Zoning
Board shall publish legal notice not less than ten days prior to the public
hearing. At the close of the public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Board
shall forward its recommendation to the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Hearing by Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners shall
publish legal notice not less than ten days prior to the public hearing. After
taking into account all pertinent information and the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Board, the Board of Commissioners shall make a final
determination within 30 days of the date of the hearing.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.38.030)
§ 155.358 PROTEST.
   (A)   Approval or denial of any application for a zoning district
classification shall be by a majority of all members of the Board of
Commissioners. After publication of the Board of Commissioners’ approval as
provide for in SDCL § 9-19-7, the zoning district classification change shall
take effect unless the referendum be invoked, or unless a written protest be
filed with the City Clerk, signed by at least 40% of the owners of equity in
the lots included in any proposed district and the lands within 250 feet from
any part of such proposed district.
   (B)   A CORPORATION shall be construed to be a sole owner and, when parcels
of land are in the name of more than one person, owner representation shall be
in proportion to the number of signers who join in the petition in relation to
the number of owners.
   (C)   If a protest is filed, the ordinance does not become effective unless
the ordinance is approved by a resolution by two-thirds of the Board of
Commissioners at its next regularly scheduled meeting. The protest provisions
of this section do not apply to any ordinance regulating or establishing
floodplain areas.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.38.040)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS
§ 155.370 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The purpose of the variance is to modify the strict application of the
specific requirements set out in each zoning district in conditions where such
strict application would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship
depriving an owner of the reasonable use of his land.
   (B)   The variance shall be used only where necessary to overcome some
condition which prevents an owner from using his or her lot as this chapter
intended.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.40.010)
§ 155.371 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Board of Adjustment which may, in appropriate
cases and subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards, grant variances,
hear appeals, or make special exceptions to the terms of this chapter in
harmony with its general purpose and intent and in accordance with the general
or specific rules herein contained.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.40.020)
§ 155.372 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   If neither the Planning and Zoning Board or the Board of Commissioners
are designated as the Board of Adjustments, then the Board of Adjustments shall
consist of five persons to be appointed by the Mayor. The terms of all members
shall be for three years each and so arranged that the term of at least one
member will expire each year. Members of the Board shall be removable for cause
by the mayor upon written charges and after a public hearing.
   (B)   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose
term becomes vacant. The Mayor shall also appoint a first alternate and a
second alternate for a term of three years each. If a member is unable to
attend a meeting, the first alternate or second alternate, in turn, shall serve
in that person’s place.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.40.030)
§ 155.373 RULES.
   The Board shall organize and adopt rules to govern its proceedings;
provided, however, that such rules are not inconsistent with the city’s
ordinances, the Comprehensive Plan, or state or federal law.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.40.040)
§ 155.374 MEETINGS.
   (A)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and held as the
Board may determine.
   (B)   The Chairperson or, in her or his absence, the acting Chairperson may
administer oaths, and the Board may compel the attendance of witnesses. All
business of the Board shall be transacted at such meetings.
   (C)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be
a public record.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.40.050)
§ 155.375 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Administrator may make an
appeal to the Board. The petitioner shall file an application for a variance,
in writing, on a form furnished by the city. Every application shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   Legal description of the land on which such variance is requested,
together with local street address;
      (2)   Name and address of each owner of the property;
      (3)   Name, address, phone number, and signature of the applicant;
      (4)   Zoning district classification under which the property is
regulated at the time of such application;
      (5)   The specific standard, regulation, or decisions which is being
appealed;
      (6)   The specific remedy that is being requested; and
      (7)   Any drawings, plans, and other documentation requested by the
Board.
   (B)   Upon the filing of any application for a variance with the Planning
Department, the applicant shall pay to the city the appropriate fee as
designated in §
155.400.
   (C)   Notification of surrounding property owners, tenants, and interested
parties shall be accomplished by posting a sign on the property and/or by
mailing notices of public hearing to neighboring property owners. Legal notice
is the general circulation paper.
      (1)   (a)   A sign noting the fact that a variance request is pending
shall be posted on the site not less than ten calendar days before the public
hearing before the Zoning Board of Adjustments. The sign shall be maintained on
the site until the final action has taken action on the request or the petition
is withdrawn.
         (b)   Approved signs shall be secured from the city who shall require
a reasonable deposit sufficient to cover the cost of replacement of the sign or
signs and who shall determine the number and location of the sign or signs to
be posted on the site addressed in the petition for the variance.
      (2)   The petitioner shall submit postal receipts to demonstrate a good
faith attempt to notify by certified letter with return receipt all property
owners within 250 feet, inclusive of public right-of-way, of the site measured
from the perimeter of the lot or lots which contain the buildings and area
dedicated to the proposed use.
      (3)   The certified mailings shall include the date set for the hearing
before the Zoning Board of Adjustments and variance requested, and shall be on
a form provided by the Planning Department.
      (4)   The property owners listed shall be prepared by the city and based
on the County Director of Equalization office records of ownership and
addresses. Notices are to be sent by the applicant to all parties on the
aforementioned list by certified mail with return receipt requested no less
than ten calendar days prior to the public hearing on the request held by the
Zoning Board of Adjustments.
   (D)   Upon the filing of an application for a variance, the city shall set a
date for public hearing on the request. Said date for the public hearing shall
be a day when the Zoning Board of Adjustments is regularly scheduled to meet as
determined by the rules, policies, and regulations as adopted or which may
hereafter be adopted by the Zoning Board of Adjustments for holding public
hearings on such requests. The Zoning Board of Adjustments shall consider and
decide the applications for variances within 30 days of the public hearing and
in accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Variances shall be granted only where special circumstances or
conditions (such as exceptional narrowness, topography, or siting), fully
described in the finding of the Board, do not apply generally in the district.
      (2)   Variances shall not be granted to allow a use otherwise excluded
from the particular district in which requested.
      (3)   For reasons fully set forth in the findings of the Board, the
aforesaid circumstances or conditions are such that the strict application of
the provisions of this chapter would deprive the applicant of any reasonable
use of his or her land. Mere loss in value shall not justify a variance; there
must be a deprivation of beneficial use of land.
      (4)   Any variance granted under the provisions of this section shall be
the minimum adjustment necessary for the reasonable use of the land.
      (5)   The granting of any variance is in harmony with the general
purposes and intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood, detrimental to the public welfare, or in conflict with the
Comprehensive Plan for development.
   (E)   Before the Board shall have the authority to grant a variance, the
person claiming the variance has the burden of showing that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be contrary to the public
interest;
      (2)   The literal enforcement of this chapter will result in unnecessary
hardship;
      (3)   By granting the variance contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, the spirit of this chapter will be observed; and
      (4)   By granting the permit, substantial justice will be done.
   (F)   Every decision by the Board shall be accompanied by a written finding
of fact based on testimony and other evidence, specifying the reason for
granting or denying the variation. The concurring vote of three-fourths of the
Members of the Board of Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of any such administrative official or
to grant any variance.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.40.060)
§ 155.376 SIGNS.
   The sign posting requirement as required by §
155.370, pertaining to variance applications, shall be satisfied provided the
sign noting the fact that a variance request is pending is no smaller than 18
inches by 18 inches in size.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.40.61; Ord. 2.01C, passed 6-4-2015)
§ 155.377 LIMITATIONS.
   Any order of the Board of Adjustment granting a variance shall be invalid
unless substantially completed within two years from the date of such order,
and such order shall expire without notice. For good cause, the Board may
extend this.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.40.070)
§ 155.378 COURT REVIEW.
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board, or
bureau of the city, may petition a court of record within 30 days after the
filing of the Board’s decision, as provided by SDCL § 11-4-25.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.40.080)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.390 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be administered by the Zoning
Administrator, who shall:
   (A)   Maintain and keep current zoning maps and records of amendments,
variances, and conditional use permits;
   (B)   Conduct inspections as prescribed by this subchapter;
   (C)   Interpret the provisions of this subchapter;
   (D)   Issue all building permits and make and maintain records thereof;
   (E)   Issue all certificates of occupancy and make and maintain records
thereof; and
   (F)   Issue and renew where applicable all temporary use permits and make
and maintain records thereof.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.010)
§ 155.391 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   The Planning and Zoning Board shall:
   (A)   Establish rules of procedure that are necessary to the performance of
its function under this chapter;
   (B)   Review and decide all applications for conditional uses in accordance
with §§
155.335 through
155.341;
   (C)   Review and make recommendation to the Board of Commissioners on all
applications brought forth by the public in accordance with this subchapter, or
as required by state statutes not specifically identified herein and further,
to review annually this subchapter and on the basis of the review, suggest
amendments thereto; and
   (D)   Until such time that a Board of Adjustment has been appointed, the
Planning and Zoning Board shall have full power to function as a Board in its
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.020)
§ 155.392 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall:
   (A)   Establish rules of procedure that is necessary to the performance of
its functions under this subchapter; and
   (B)   Review and decide all applications and amendments brought forth by the
public in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.030)
§ 155.393 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator or his or her
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in
any building or upon any premises an ordinance violation, the Administrator or
his or her authorized representative may enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the
Administrator by this chapter, provided that if such building or premises be
occupied, he or she shall first present proper credentials and request entry;
and if such building or premises be unoccupied, he or she shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the building or premises and request entry. If such entry is refused, the
Administrator or his or her authorized representative shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
   (B)   When the Administrator or his or her authorized representative shall
have first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law
to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care,
or control of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper
request is made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the
Administrator or his or her authorized representative for the purpose of
inspection and examination pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.040)
§ 155.394 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
the Administrator may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any
persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done; and any such
persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Director to
proceed with the work.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.050)
§ 155.395 OCCUPANCY VIOLATION.
   Whenever any building or structure regulated by this chapter is being used
contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the Administrator may order such
use discontinued and the structure, or portion thereof, vacated by notice
served on any person causing such use to be continued. Such persons shall
discontinue the use within the time prescribed after receipt of such notice to
make the structure, or portion thereof, comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.060)
§ 155.396 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No new building shall be occupied and no change in occupancy of a building
or part of a building shall be made until after the Administrator shall have
issued a certificate of occupancy therefor as regulated in the current Building
Codes adopted by the city. After final inspection, if it is found that the
building, structure, or land complies with the provisions of this chapter and
other laws of this jurisdiction, the Administrator shall issue a certificate of
occupancy.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.070)
§ 155.397 COOPERATION OF OTHER OFFICIALS AND OFFICERS.
   The Administrator may request and shall receive so far as is required, in
the discharge of her or his duties, the assistance and cooperation of other
officials of this jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.080)
§ 155.398 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be treated in the manner specified below.
   (A)   The owner or agent of a building or premises in or upon which a
violation of any provision of this chapter has been committed or shall exist;
the lessee or tenant of an entire building or entire premises in or upon which
violation has been committed or shall exist; or the agent, architect, building
contractor, or any other person who commits, takes part in, or assists in any
violation or who maintains any building or premises in or upon which such
violation shall exist shall be guilty of a violation of a city ordinance. Each
and every day that such violation continues after notification may constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building,
structure, or land is used in violation of this chapter, the appropriate
authorities of the city, in addition to other remedies, may institute
injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion,
maintenance, or use; to correct or abate such violation; or to prevent the
occupancy of said building, structure, or land.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.090) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.399 APPEALS.
   Within 30 days of the Zoning Administrator’s decision, a person may appeal,
in writing, to the Zoning Board of Adjustments. The appeal shall be accompanied
by fees as required for a variance. Upon receipt of an appeal and fee, the
Zoning Board of Adjustments shall consider and decide within 30 days.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.100)
§ 155.400 FEES.
   Upon making application for filing of appeals and applications for
amendments to this chapter, said applicant shall pay the applicable fee as set
forth in the fee schedule adopted by resolution. The Board of Commissioners may
revise the fees as set forth herein from time to time by resolution.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.110)
§ 155.401 PENDING ORDINANCE RULE.
   An applicant may be denied a permit, plat, replat, rezone, variance,
conditional use permit, or other use of property for a use allowed by this
subchapter if, at the time of application, an amendment is pending which, if
adopted, would proscribe the proposed use.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.120)
§ 155.402 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Any person directly affected may file a written complaint alleging a
violation of this subchapter. The complaint shall state the basis for the
violation, how the complainant is affected, and be filed with the Zoning
Administrator, who shall timely investigate and take appropriate action as
provided by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.130)
§ 155.403 INTERPRETATION, ABROGATION, AND SEVERABILITY.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, these
provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and
general welfare. It is not the intent of this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or
impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions; however, the
city shall only enforce the provisions of this chapter. All other ordinances
inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of this
inconsistency only. If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, or other portion
of this title is held unconstitutional or invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, it shall in no way affect the validity of any remaining portions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.150)
§ 155.404 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. Whenever the provisions of
this chapter require a greater width or size of yards, courts, or other spaces;
require a lower height of building or lesser number of stories; require in any
other percentage of lot to be left unoccupied; or impose other higher standards
than are required in any other ordinance, the provisions of this chapter shall
govern. Wherever the provisions of any other ordinance require a greater width
or size of yards, courts, or other open spaces; require a lower height of
building or a lesser number of stories; require a greater percentage of lot to
be left unoccupied; or impose other higher standards than are required by the
provisions of this chapter, the provisions of such ordinance shall govern.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.160)
§ 155.405 CONFLICT WITH PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISIONS.
   Where any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different from
those imposed by any other provisions of these regulations, or any other
ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provisions
are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall control. These
regulations are not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or any other
private agreement or restriction. Restrictive covenants may be taken into
consideration by the city in the issuance of building permits. As a rule of
law, the city may not enforce covenants.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.170)
§ 155.406 REPEALER.
   All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or before
February 3, 2011 not included, recognized, and continued in force by reference
therein by the city’s ordinances are repealed.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.180)
§ 155.407 CONSTRUCTION OF REPEALER.
   The repeal provided for in §
155.406 shall not be construed to revise any ordinance or part thereof that has
been repealed by a subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.190)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person convicted
of a violation of any provision of this chapter, rule, or regulation adopted or
issued in pursuance thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
Additionally, the city may enforce a violation of this chapter, including the
failure to timely obtain proper permitting, with the imposition of a civil
penalty in an amount that can be established by the Board of Commissioners by
resolution, which may from time to time be amended. Each violation and each day
upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The
penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided,
shall apply to the amendment of any section herein, whether or not such penalty
is reenacted in an amendatory ordinance.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty described above, the city may pursue other
remedies, including, but not limited to, abatement of nuisances, injunctive
relief, and revocation of licenses or permits. The owner or owners of real
estate within the district affected by the regulation of this chapter may also
pursue such remedies by filing a complaint through the Planning and Zoning
Board.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2011, § 2.42.140; Ord. 2023-19, passed 12-7-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ZONING AND LAND USE CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
3.2   - -    Grants Midcontinent Communications, G.P. the non- exclusive right to erect,
             maintain, and operate in the city
#3.1  1-5-   Grants Montana-Dakota Utilities Co. the non- exclusive right to erect,
      2006   maintain, and operate in the city
3.3   12-7-  Grants Prairiewave Black Hills, L.L.C. the non- exclusive right to erect,
      2006   maintain, and operate in the city
14    6-18-  Grants placement, construction, and modification of wireless telecommunication
      2009   facilities
1177  5-6-   Grants Knology of the Black Hills, L.L.C. the non-exclusive right to erect,
      2013   maintain, and operate in the city
2013- 5-6-   Grants Wow of the Black Hills, L.L.C. the non- exclusive right to erect,
      2013   maintain, and operate in the city
3.4   2-20-  Grants Midcontinent Communications the nonexclusive right to erect, maintain,
      2014   and operate in the city
3.5   2-20-  Grants Knology of the Black Hills, L.L.C., D/B/A WOW! Internet, Cable, and
      2014   Phone the non-exclusive right to erect, maintain, and operate in the city
2024- 6-6-   Extends Midcontinent Communications’ franchise for the construction and
01    2024   operation of a communications system within the city for an additional ten
             years
2024- 8-1-   Extends Clarity Telecom, LLC. d/b/a Bluepeak’s franchise for the construction
10    2024   and operation of a communications system for an additional ten years.
            
 
TABLE II: ZONING AND LAND USE CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2.01B 12-4-  (A) Rezoning 48 tracts of land as C-1 (General Commercial)
      2014
           (B) Rezoning 12 tracts of land as R-1 (Single-Family Residential)
2.01D - -    (A) Rezoning 16 tracts of land of the Infinity Business Park
      2017   Subdivision as C-1 (General Commercial)
           (B) Rezoning tract 2, Richardson Subdivision, from AG (Agricultural
             District) to PDD (Planned Development District)
TSO   3-2-   Rezoning 2 tracts of land of the Sun Valley Estates Subdivision and of
2018- 2018   Section 14 from AG (Agricultural District) to R-1 (Single Family
01           Residential District)
TSO   7-19-  Rezoning 3 tracts of land of the Sun Valley Estates Subdivision,
2018- 2018   Section 14 and Section 23 from AG (Agricultural District) to R-1
02           (Single Family Residential District)
TSO   12-5-  Rezoning 2 tracts of land of the Shadowland Ranch Subdivision to R-1
2019- 2019   (Single Family Residential District)
01
TSO   11-18- Rezoning 7 tracts of land of the Summerset Subdivision, Section 31,
2021- 2021   Township 3 North, Range 7 East, Black Hills Meridian from PD (Planned
01           Development District) to R-1 (Single Family Residential District)   
TSO          Rezoning Summerset Subdivision Lots AR, BR, and C of Lot 1, Block 9,
2022- 2-17-  Section 36, Township 3 North, Range 6 East, Black Hills Meridian, City
04    2022   of Summerset, Meade County, South Dakota from PD (Planned Development
             District) to C1 (General Commercial District)
             Rezoning Powles Land Development, LLC- Lots 17 through 19, Block 1;
             Lots 5 through 8, Block 2; and Lots 1 through 12, Block 5; and
TSO   9-3-   dedicated public right-of-way for Glenwood Drive and Arapahoe Street of
2020- 2020   Sun Valley Estates. Formerly a Portion of the Un-platted Portion of the
01           SE 1/4 of Section 14 Township 4 North, Range 6 East, Black Hills
             Meridian, City of Summerset, Meade County, South Dakota from AG
             (Agricultural) to R-1 (Single Family Residential)
             New Leaf, LLC Plat of Tract 1 of Pine Hills Subdivision (Formerly the
TSO   9-17-  remainder of Lot B of the NE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of Section 36, Less
2020- 2020   Sturgis Road and Emerald Heights Road right-of-way) Located Section 36,
02           T3N, R6E, BHM, Summerset, Meade County, South Dakota from R3 (Multi-
             Family Residential) to GC (General Commercial)
             Rezoning a Plat of Lot 3 of Norman Estates Subdivision located in a
TSO   6-6-   portion of Lot U1 in the N 1/2 SW 1/4 of Section 5 and in the unplatted
2024- 2024   portion of the NE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Section 5, Township 2 North, Range 7
01           East of the Black Hills Meridian, City of Summerset, Meade County,
             South Dakota to C1 (General Commercial)
TSO   6-20-  Rezoning SW 1/4 of Section 32, Township 3, North, Range 7 East of the
2024- 2024   Black Hills Meridian, City of Summerset, Meade County, South Dakota to
02           R3 (Multi-Family Residential)
             Rezoning plat of Lot A1 of the Black Rock Subdivision and dedicated 10
TSO          feet public right-of-way to Norman Avenue; formerly a portion of the N
2024- 11-21- 1/2 of the SW 1/4 of Section 5, Township 2 North, Range 7 East, Black
03    2024   Hills Meridian and Lot U3 all located in the N 1/2 of the SW 1/4 of
             Section 5, Township 2 North, Range 7 East, Black Hills Meridian, Meade
             County, South Dakota to C-1 (General Commercial)
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Law
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAW
SDCL Section Code Section
SDCL Section                  Code Section
1-19A-11.1                    153.029
Ch. 1-25                      30.36
1-25-1.1                      30.19
3-17-6                        31.001
5-18A-3                       94.19
5-18A-8                       33.40
5-18A-14                      33.40
5-18A-22                      33.40
5-18C-3                       33.40
5-18C-4                       33.40
5-18C-6                       33.40
5-18C-8                       33.40
6-1-1                         33.36
7-18-14                       150.01
Ch. 7-25A                     113.17
Title 9                       52.01
9-1-1                         10.02,
                              10.04
9-1-5                         33.35
9-2-1 through 9-2-3           Ch. 30
9-2-1                         Ch. 30,
                              30.02
9-2-2                         Ch. 30,
                              30.02
9-2-3                         30.01
9-9-1                         30.15
9-9-2                         30.16
9-9-6                         30.18
9-9-7                         30.17
9-9-8                         30.18
9-9-9                         30.20,
                              30.21
9-9-11                        30.19
9-9-12                        30.19
9-9-13                        30.19
9-9-14                        30.20
9-9-16                        30.20
9-9-20                        30.22
9-9-26                        30.22
9-9-27                        30.22
9-12-1(2)                     52.28
9-12-3.1                      31.023
9-12-20                       113.48
Ch. 9-13                      30.20
9-13-6                        32.02
9-13-13                       10.04,
                              32.02
9-13-14                       32.03
9-13-14.1                     30.18
9-13-14.2                     30.18
9-13-21                       32.01
9-14-3                        31.015
9-14-4                        31.016
9-14-10                       31.002
9-14-16                       31.022
9-14-16.1                     31.022
9-14-17                       31.017
9-14-18                       31.017
9-14-19                       31.017
9-14-20                       31.017
9-14-22                       31.019
9-14-24                       31.020
9-14-27                       31.021
9-14-28                       31.023
9-14-30                       31.023
9-14-33                       31.023
9-14-34                       31.023
9-14-35                       31.023
Ch. 9-19                      52.01
9-19-1                        10.04
                              10.99,
                              30.37,
9-19-3                        70.99,
                              90.99,
                              91.999
9-19-5                        30.35
9-19-6                        30.35
9-19-7                        30.36,
                              155.358
9-19-7.1                      30.36
9-19-8                        30.36
9-19-9                        30.36
9-19-15                       30.38
9-19-16                       30.38
9-19-17                       30.38
9-21-2                        33.02
9-21-15                       33.04,
                              52.02
9-21-16                       52.02
9-21-19                       33.20
9-22-1 et seq.                31.018
9-22-2                        31.018
9-22-23                       33.01
9-23-1                        33.04
9-23-2                        33.04
9-29-3                        131.01
9-29-11                       130.35
9-29-16                       31.035
9-29-19                       31.035
9-30-2                        94.01
9-31-1 through 9-31- 5        70.02
9-34-7                        112.12
9-34-8                        118.03
9-34-9                        110.02
9-34-10                       110.03
9-34-17                       110.04
9-34-18                       110.01
Ch. 9-36                      150.01
Ch. 9-38                      95.01
9-38-1 et seq.                95.01
Ch. 9-43                      52.05
9-45-1                        94.02
9-46-1                        94.15,
                              94.16
9-46-3                        94.17
9-46-4                        94.18
9-46-5                        94.19
9-46-6                        94.20
9-46-11                       94.21
9-47-1                        52.01
9-47-2                        52.02
9-47-3                        52.03
9-47-4                        52.04
9-47-5                        52.05
9-47-6                        52.06
9-47-8                        52.07
9-47-13                       52.25
9-47-14                       52.26
9-47-15                       52.27
9-47-17                       52.28
9-47-18                       52.08
9-47-20                       52.45
9-47-21                       52.46
9-47-22 through 9-47-26       52.48
9-47-22                       52.47
9-47-23                       52.47
9-47-24                       52.47
9-47-25                       52.47
9-47-26                       52.47
9-47-27                       52.48
9-47-28                       52.49
                              51.079,
9-18-15                       53.081,
                              53.082,
                              53.083
9-48-21                       53.117
9-48-25                       53.117
9-48-15                       53.117
10-12-7                       33.03
Ch. 10-46                     33.37
11-3-2                        151.020
11-3-3                        151.020
11-3-4                        151.053
11-3-6                        151.053
11-3-7                        151.051
11-3-9                        151.053
11-3-10                       151.053
11-3-12                       151.004
11-3-20.1 through 11-3-20.4   151.080
Ch. 11-4                      31.056
11-4-8                        30.36
11-4-25                       155.378
Ch. 11-6                      31.056,
                              155.009
11-6-26                       151.002,
                              151.053
11-6-31                       151.020
12-1-2.1                      32.04
12-4-5.2                      32.02
Ch. 12-27                     32.04
12-27-39                      32.04
21-10-6                       92.021
21-10-28 to 21-10-34          95.02
Title 22                      130.01
                              31.088,
                              71.999,
22-6-2                        91.999,
                              92.999,
                              153.999
22-6-2(2)                     10.99,
                              131.13
22-11-4                       130.17
22-11-5                       130.17
22-11-9.2                     130.20
22-18-1 et seq.               130.16
22-34-1                       132.01
22-42-1                       119.02
26-6-14.1                     119.02
31-1-5(1) through (4)         70.22
Ch. 31-12A                    151.004,
                              151.052
Ch. 31-29                     115.01,
                              155.270
Title 32                      70.03
32-14-1                       70.01
32-14-1(27)                   70.22
32-15-17                      70.21
32-17-1 to 32-17-26           71.061
32-17-4                       71.061
32-17-27                      71.061
32-20A-1                      70.20
32-20A-2                      70.21
32-20A-3                      70.22
32-26-21.1                    70.07
32-26-46                      70.08
32-26-47                      70.08
32-30-2.5                     70.06
34-1-17 et seq.               110.04
34-20G                        119.01
34-20G-1                      119.02
34-20G-55                     119.03
                              119.01,
34-20G-58                     119.04,
                              119.05
34-20G-60                     119.05
34-20G-72                     119.02
34-46-14                      130.41
34-46-20                      130.44
34-46-2(25)                   130.44
34-46-21                      130.44
                              113.01,
Title 35                      113.17,
                              113.48
35-1-1                        113.01
35-1-1(17A)                   113.29
35-2-1 et seq.                Ch. 113
35-2-1.1                      113.22,
                              113.45
35-2-1.2                      113.45
35-3-13                       113.15
Ch. 35-4                      113.45
35-4-2                        113.15
35-4-2(2)                     113.15
                              113.15,
35-4-2(3)                     113.17,
                              113.27,
                              113.28
                              113.15,
35-4-2(4)                     113.45,
                              113.47
                              113.15,
35-4-2(5)                     113.17,
                              113.27,
                              113.28
35-4-2(6)                     113.15,
                              113.45
35-4-2(8)                     113.15
35-4-2(9)                     113.15
35-4-2(11)                    113.15
                              113.15,
35-4-2(12)                    113.17,
                              113.22,
                              113.47
                              113.15,
35-4-2(13)                    113.19,
                              113.45
35-4-2(15)                    113.15
                              113.15,
                              113.17,
35-4-2(16)                    113.22,
                              113.26,
                              113.47
35-4-2(21)                    113.15
35-4-2(23)                    113.28
35-4-2.11                     113.26
35-4-6                        113.17
35-4-10                       113.17
35-4-10.2                     113.27
35-4-11                       113.17 -
                              113.19
35-4-11.2                     113.19
35-4-14                       113.16
35-4-14.1                     113.16
35-4-19                       113.47
35-4-21                       113.47
35-4-22                       113.47
35-4-78                       113.60
35-4-79                       113.61
35-4-79.4                     113.62
35-4-81                       113.21
35-4-81.2                     113.21,
                              113.28
35-4-127                      113.28
35-4-128                      113.29
36-4-11                       110.04
36-18A-45                     151.053
37-14-2                       117.01
37-14-4                       117.03
37-14-5                       117.02
37-14-18                      117.04
37-14-19                      117.04
37-14-20                      117.04
37-16-1                       118.01
37-16-2                       118.02
37-16-3                       118.03
37-16-4                       118.04
37-16-5                       118.05
Ch. 40-15                     117.04
42-7A-64                      113.22
                              51.001,
                              51.007,
Ch. 46A-10A                   51.045,
                              51.048,
                              51.061
46A-10A-9.1                   51.027
46A-10A-9.2                   51.027
46A-10A-9.3                   51.027
46A-10A-9.4                   51.027
46A-10A-9.5                   51.027
46A-10A-34                    51.075
46A-10A-43                    51.048
46A-10A-49                    51.060
46A-10A-50 through 46A-10A-54 51.062
Ch. 46A-11                    51.001,
                              51.045
Ch. 46A-11A                   51.007
49-13-1                       110.01
49-31-1                       110.01
Ch. 50-7                      113.16
113.15(A)(17)                 113.46
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
30.001             30.01
30.002             30.02
30.003             30.03
30.055             30.15
30.056             30.16
30.059             30.17
30.060             30.18
30.061             30.18
30.062             30.18
30.063             30.19
30.064             30.20
30.065             30.21
30.066             30.22
30.095             30.35
30.096             30.36
30.097             30.37
30.098             30.38
31.01              31.015,
                   31.022
31.02              31.016
31.03              31.017
31.04              31.018
31.05              31.019
31.06              31.020
31.07              31.021
31.09              31.023
31.15              31.001
31.16              31.002
32.01              32.01
32.02              32.02
32.03              32.03
32.04              32.04
33.01              31.035
34.01              33.01
34.02              33.02
34.04              33.03
34.05              33.04
34.06              33.05
34.20              33.20
34.30              33.35
34.31              33.36
34.32              33.37
50.01              52.01
50.02              52.02
50.03              52.03
50.04              52.04
50.05              52.05
50.06              52.06
50.08              52.07
50.09              52.08
50.27              52.25
50.29              52.26
50.30              52.27
50.32              52.28
50.45              52.45
50.46              52.46
50.47              52.47
50.48              52.47
50.49              52.47
50.50              52.47
50.51              52.47
50.52              52.48
50.53              52.49
70.01              70.01
70.02              70.02
70.03              70.03
70.05              70.04
70.06              70.05
70.07              70.06
70.08              70.07
70.99              70.99
73.01              70.20
73.02              70.21
73.03              70.22
91.01              93.01
91.02              93.02
91.03              93.03
91.04              93.04
91.05              93.05
92.01              90.01
92.02              90.02
92.03              90.03
92.04              90.04
92.05              90.05
92.06              90.06
92.07              90.07
92.08              90.08
92.99              90.99
93.117             91.070
93.118             91.071
93.119             91.072
93.999             91.999
94.01              94.01
94.15              94.02
94.25              94.15
94.27              94.16
94.28              94.17
94.29              94.18
94.30              94.19
94.31              94.20
94.32              94.21
95.01              95.01
95.02              95.01
95.03              95.01
95.15              95.02
95.16              95.02
110.01             112.01
110.02             112.02
110.03             112.03
110.04             112.04
110.05             112.05
110.06             112.06
110.07             112.07
110.08             112.08
110.09             112.09
110.10             112.10
110.11             112.11
110.12             112.12
110.25             110.01
110.26             110.02
110.27             110.03
110.28             110.04
110.29             110.05
111.01             117.01
111.02             117.02
111.03             117.03
111.04             117.04
112.01             118.01,
                   118.02
112.03             118.03
112.04             118.04
112.05             118.05
114.01             116.01
114.02             116.15
114.03             116.16
114.04             116.17
114.05             116.18
114.06             116.19
114.07             116.45
114.08             116.02
114.09             116.03
114.10             116.46
114.11             116.30
114.12             116.31
114.13             116.32
114.14             116.33
114.15             116.34
114.99             116.99
130.01             130.01
130.15             130.15
130.16             130.16
130.17             130.17
130.18             130.18
130.19             130.19
130.20             130.20
130.21             130.21
130.22             131.03
130.23             131.04
130.24             131.05
130.25             131.06
130.26             131.07
130.27             131.08
130.28             131.09
130.35             130.35
130.36             130.36
130.37             130.37
130.38             130.38
130.39             130.39
130.40             130.40
130.41             130.41
130.42             130.42
130.43             130.43
130.99             130.99
131.01             131.01
133.01             132.01
131.03             131.10
131.04             131.11
131.05             131.12
131.06             131.02
133.02             132.02
133.03             132.03
133.04             132.04
133.05             132.05
133.99             132.99
135.01             130.02
135.99             130.99
                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                Date Passed Code Section
–                     - -         Ch. 153
1.150.033IPMC           - -         152.02
1.150.031IRC            - -         152.03
3.2                     - -         TSO Table I
#3.1                    1-5-2006    TSO Table I
3.3                     12-7-2006   TSO Table I
                                    51.001,
                                    51.003-
                                    51.007,
                                    51.020-
                                    51.033,
                                    51.045-
9                       1-18-2007   51.048,
                                    51.060-
                                    51.063,
                                    51.075-
                                    51.079,
                                    51.090-
                                    51.092
#10                     5-17-2007   115.01-
                                    115.08
#4                      6-7-2007    31.050-
                                    31.056
                                    111.01-
                                    111.04,
5                       9-7-2007    111.20-
                                    111.23,
                                    111.55-
                                    111.63
16                      11-1-2007   131.15-
                                    131.21
                                    154.001-
                                    154.004,
                                    154.015,
                                    154.016,
                                    154.030,
                                    154.031,
                                    154.045-
19                      - -2008     154.051,
                                    154.065-
                                    154.069,
                                    154.080,
                                    154.081,
                                    154.095-
                                    154.099,
                                    154.999
                                    111.05,
5.01C                   6-5-2008    111.06,
                                    115.09
5.01D                   8-7-2008    111.40,
                                    111.41
                                    114.01-
                                    114.03,
25                      8-7-2008    114.15-
                                    114.20,
                                    114.35-
                                    114.41
                                    53.001 -
                                    53.012,
                                    53.025 -
                                    53.036,
                                    53.050 -
30                      8-21-2008   53.061,
                                    53.075 -
                                    53.086,
                                    53.095 -
                                    53.102,
                                    53.999
30-A                    11-20-2008  53.081
14                      6-18-2009   TSO Table I
5                       9-7-2009    111.20-
                                    111.23
30-B                    11-19-2009  53.085
30-C                    11-19-2009  53.096
                                    71.001-
                                    71.005,
                                    71.020-
                                    71.044,
                                    71.055-
                                    71.062,
22                      7-8-2010    71.075-
                                    71.090,
                                    71.105-
                                    71.110,
                                    71.125-
                                    71.131,
                                    71.999
                                    91.001-
                                    91.009,
                                    91.020-
                                    91.027,
33                      7-8-2010    91.040-
                                    91.043,
                                    91.055-
                                    91.057,
                                    91.999
                                    150.01-
                                    150.13,
                                    150.25-
23                      8-19-2010   150.28,
                                    150.40-
                                    150.43,
                                    150.99
30-D                    9-16-2010   53.083
31                      9-16-2010   53.115 -
                                    53.117
33.01B                  10-5-2010   91.999
36                      11-4-2010   10.25-
                                    10.30
                                    155.001-
                                    155.008,
                                    155.020-
                                    155.023,
                                    155.035-
                                    155.040,
                                    155.055-
                                    155.060,
                                    155.075-
                                    155.080,
                                    155.095-
                                    155.102,
                                    155.115-
                                    155.120,
                                    155.135-
                                    155.142,
                                    155.155-
                                    155.162,
                                    155.175-
                                    155.183,
                                    155.195-
–                     2-3-2011    155.204,
                                    155.215-
                                    155.229,
                                    155.240-
                                    155.242,
                                    155.255-
                                    155.257,
                                    155.270-
                                    155.280,
                                    155.295-
                                    155.304,
                                    155.315-
                                    155.322,
                                    155.335-
                                    155.341,
                                    155.355-
                                    155.358,
                                    155.370-
                                    155.378,
                                    155.390-
                                    155.407,
                                    155.999
5.01G                   3-3-2011    111.42,
                                    111.43
1.10.01-T               3-24-2011   30.16
4.01A                   6-16-2011   31.052
TSO 2011-01             6-16-2011   155.258
33.01C                  8-16-2012   91.002
1177                    5-6-2013    TSO Table I
2013-                   5-6-2013    TSO Table I
3.4                     2-20-2014   TSO Table I
3.5                     2-20-2014   TSO Table I
36A                     4-3-2014    10.29-
                                    10.32
                                    92.001,
                                    92.002,
                                    92.015-
                                    92.022,
                                    92.035-
1.90A                   5-15-2014   92.038,
                                    92.050-
                                    92.054,
                                    92.065-
                                    92.072,
                                    92.999
33.01D                  6-5-2014    91.003
1.34A                   7-18-2014   33.38-
                                    33.40
2.01B                   12-4-2014   TSO Table II
5.01 I                  1-15-2015   111.24-
                                    111.25
                                    155.024,
2.01C                   6-4-2015    155.336,
                                    155.376
38                      1-7-2016    31.070-
                                    31.076
2.01D                   - -2017     TSO Table II
18.2017                 2-16-2017   50.01-
                                    50.05
                                    155.009,
                                    155.020,
                                    155.038,
                                    155.058,
                                    155.078,
–                     2-16-2017   155.117,
                                    155.137,
                                    155.180,
                                    155.182,
                                    155.256,
                                    155.298
                                    151.001-
                                    151.006,
                                    151.020,
                                    151.021,
                                    151.035-
                                    151.038,
#115                    2-16-2017   151.050-
                                    151.054,
                                    151.065-
                                    151.068,
                                    151.080-
                                    151.082,
                                    151.999
TSO 2018-01             3-2-2018    TSO Table II
–                     4-19-2018   155.241
                                    50.06-
18.02                   4-19-2018   50.08,
                                    50.11,
                                    50.12
TSO 2018-02             7-19-2018   TSO Table II
                                    96.01 -
39                      10-4-2018   96.16,
                                    96.99
--                      7-31-2019   31.080-
                                    31.089
--                      9-19-2019   71.081
--                      9-19-2019   92.035
--                      9-19-2019   153.052
TSO 2019-01             12-5-2019   TSO Table II
TSO 2020-01             9-3-2020    TSO Table II
TSO 2020-02             9-17-2020   TSO Table II
Title XIII, Sec. 131.13 6-17-2021   131.13
2021-01                 11-18-2021  TSO Table II
2021-04                 9-2-2021    92.073
2021-06                 10-21-2021  53.084
2021-07                 11-4-2021   131.14
TSO 2022-04             2-17-2022   TSO Table II
2022-01                 3-17-2022   153.025
2022-02                 3-17-2022   152.01
2022-03                 3-17-2022   152.02
2022-04                 3-17-2022   152.03
2021-03                 9-2-2021    119.01-
                                    119.06
2022-06                 6-2-2022    153.214
2022-07                 7-7-2022    151.052
2022-09                 9-1-2022    92.073
2022-10                 12-19-2022  111.42
                                    31.080,
2022-11                 12-19-2022  31.082,
                                    31.083
2022-12                 12-19-2022  33.38
2022-13                 12-19-2022  33.40
2022-14                 12-19-2022  153.079
2022-16                 1-5-2023    116.17
2022-17                 1-5-2023    113.15
                                    54.01-
--                      2-2-2023    54.10,
                                    54.99
2023-05                 6-15-2023   155.180
2023-04                 7-6-2023    32.04
2023-06                 7-20-2023   91.024
2023-07                 7-20-2023   91.007
2023-08                 7-20-2023   92.019
2023-09                 7-20-2023   92.037
2023-10                 7-20-2023   91.999
2023-11                 7-20-2023   93.01
2023-12                 7-20-2023   10.99
2023-13                 7-20-2023   93.02
2023-15                 7-20-2023   71.999
2023-16                 10-5-2023   92.039
2023-17                 12-7-2023   151.002
2023-18                 12-7-2023   153.999
2023-19                 12-7-2023   155.999
2024-01                 6-6-2024    TSO I
TSO 2024-01             6-6-2024    TSO II
2024-02                 4-18-2024   150.25
TSO 2024-02             6-20-2024   TSO II
2024-03                 4-18-2024   10.28
2024-05                 4-18-2024   10.31
2024-07                 4-18-2024   50.01
2024-08                 4-18-2024   91.999
2024-09                 7-18-2024   153.190-
                                    153.195
2024-10                 8-1-2024    TSO I
2024-11                 9-19-2024   31.083
                                    153.045,
                                    153.046,
                                    153.048,
2024-12                 9-19-2024   153.049,
                                    153.051-
                                    153.054,
                                    153.057,
                                    153.059
TSO 2024-03             11-21-2024  TSO II
2024-14                 12-19-2024  Ch. 50, Appendix A
2025-01                 2-20-2025   153.051
2025-03                 5-15-2025   31.080
                                    50.01,
2025-04                 7-17-2025   50.02,
                                    50.08,
                                    50.11
                                   
 
