WALL, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Legislation current through Ord. 24-01 passed 9-5-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend, or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature (as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections) shall be known and designated as the Code of Wall,
South Dakota, for which designation “code of ordinances,” or “codified
ordinances” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do
not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Wall, or the area within the territorial limits of the
city, and such territory outside the city over which the city has jurisdiction
or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory provision.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last unless the last is a holiday; then, it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Wall. ALL ITS MEMBERS or ALL
COUNCIL MEMBERS means the total number of Council members holding office
including the Mayor.
   COUNTY. The County of Pennington.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council or similar board or body of the City of
Wall.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
State of South Dakota, the ordinances of the city, and, when appropriate, any
and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Wall, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   MUST or SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law,
an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words
SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the Register of Deeds of the county or counties in which the municipality is
located or his or her heirs or successors.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   PERSON. A natural person, joint venture, joint stock, company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business, trust, organization, or the
manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer, or employee of any of them.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action, and
evidences of debt.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real property and personal property.
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be published shall be equivalent to the required publication.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   RESOLUTION. Any determination, decision, or direction of the governing body
of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating, effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of South Dakota.
   STREET. Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs, and other public ways in the city which have been or
may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use or such other public property
so designated in any law of this state.
   TENANT and OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   WRITTEN. Includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multi-graphed, or
otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.010)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-13-13
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code, as now or later amended, or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCES TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND, OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS;
GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released, or discharged but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Continuing violations. Whenever any code, resolution, or ordinance of
the city is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor or wherever in such code, resolution, or ordinance the doing of any
act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, any person who shall be convicted of any
such violation shall be punished by a fine not more than the amount of $500
that is set by state law, by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or by both the
fine and imprisonment. Each day of any violation of this code, resolution, or
ordinance shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Assessing additional cost incurred. Whenever additional cost is
incurred by the city for legal fees, engineering fees, city employee time
spent, and/or other expenses pertaining to the above- described violations, any
person who shall be convicted of any such violation shall be liable for
reimbursement of described additional cost incurred by the city. Such costs can
be assessed and may be applied toward property taxes of said person.
   (C)   Liability of corporations for violations. For a violation of this code
or any other ordinance of the city which, by nature, does not require intent
exercisable only by natural persons, a corporation may be fined or punished by
appropriate penalties in addition to any punishment provided for its agents who
violate this code or other ordinance while acting as agents.
   (D)   Prosecution’s election when offense created by more than one section.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
(Prior Code, Chapter 1.12) (Ord. 92-2, passed - -; Ord. 07-7, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 9-19-3 and 22-6-2(2)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Territorial boundaries
   
11.02   Precincts
   
11.03   Wards
§ 11.01 TERRITORIAL BOUNDARIES.
   The city shall include all territory embraced within the original town or
city together with all subsequent additions taken into the city since that
time, less territory legally excluded therefrom, if any, according to the
recorded plats thereof recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.010)
§ 11.02 PRECINCTS.
   There shall be only one voting precinct for the entire city for municipal
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.020)
§ 11.03 WARDS.
   (A)   Ward One. The first ward of the city shall be all property west of the
railroad track that lies north and south of West 4th Avenue, all property south
of 4th Avenue to 6th Avenue that lies west of Glenn Street, all property from
6th Avenue to South Boulevard that lies west of Norris Street, and all property
south of South Boulevard that lies west of Glenn Street/Hwy. 240.
   (B)   Ward Two. The second ward of the city shall be all property from East
6th Avenue to South Boulevard that lies east of Norris Street and all property
south of South Boulevard that lies east of Glenn Street/Hwy. 240.
   (C)   Ward Three. The third ward of the city shall be all property east of
the railroad tracks and north of 4th Avenue and all the property from East 4th
Avenue to East 6th Avenue that lies east of Glenn Street.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.030) (Ord. 11-16, passed 12-29-2011; Ord. 13-03, passed 9-
5-2013; Ord. 21-08, passed 12-20-2021)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCES AND FUNDS
      
33.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Quorum required
   
30.03   Meetings
   
30.04   Order of business
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   Form. Pursuant to SDCL § 9-8-4, the municipality is an aldermanic form
of government made up of elected officers who shall consist of six Council
members and one Mayor at large. The city is divided into three wards, and two
Council members shall be elected from each ward.
   (B)   Terms of office. The Council shall consist of the Mayor elected at
large and two Alderpersons elected from and by the voters of each of the three
wards.
   (C)   Mayoral duties. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council
but shall have no vote except in case of a tie. He or she shall perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by the laws and ordinances and shall take
care that such laws and ordinances are faithfully executed. He or she shall
give the Council information relative to the affairs of the city and shall
recommend for its consideration on such measures as he or she may deem
expedient. He or she shall have the power to sign or veto any ordinance or
resolution passed by the Council and the power to veto any part or item of an
ordinance or resolution appropriating money. The Mayor shall structure
committees and committee functions as to best serve the governing of municipal
affairs. Appointment to committees and committee functions shall be determined
by the Mayor.
   (D)   Elected officials. At the first regular meeting after the annual
election in each year and after the qualifications of the newly elected Council
member, the Council shall elect from among its own members a President and Vice
President who shall hold their respective offices for the municipal year. The
President of the Council, in the absence of the Mayor, shall be the presiding
officer of the Council and, during the absence of the Mayor from the city or
his or her temporary disability, shall be Acting Mayor and possess all of the
powers of the Mayor. In the absence or disability of the Mayor and President of
the Council, the presiding Vice President shall perform the duties of the Mayor
and President of the Council. In the event of the death of the Mayor, the
President of the Council shall act as Mayor and receive the pay of the Mayor.
He or she shall retain the duty of Mayor until the Council officially appoints
him or her, selects a new Mayor, or a city election is held for the office of
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.010) (Ord. 15-01, passed 4-9-2015; Ord. 16-02, passed 4-21-
2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-8-4
§ 30.02 QUORUM REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to SDCL § 9-8-8, a majority of the Alderpersons elected shall
constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time
to time. Therefore, a quorum would consist of at least four Council members
present at a public meeting to take action.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.020) (Ord. 15-01, passed 4-9-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-8-8
§ 30.03 MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the governing body shall be held at the designated
location on the dates and times as the Council shall adopt by resolution. This
schedule is subject to change in the case of a holiday or for lack of having a
quorum. Special meetings may be called at any time by the Mayor to consider
such matters as may be mentioned in the call for the meeting. Until such time
as the Council adopts a resolution changing the meeting times, the regular
meetings shall be held on the first Thursday following the second day of the
month at the hour of 6:30 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.030) (Ord. 15-01, passed 4-9-2015)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall call to order all Council meetings, and the City
Finance Officer shall make note if a quorum is not present, as a quorum is
needed to conduct business in the prescribed manner.
   (B)   Unfinished business from preceding meetings shall be taken up in order
unless some other business is made the special order of the meeting. Robert’s
Rules of Order will be followed for all parliamentary procedure. No vote of the
City Council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a special meeting unless at
such special meeting there is as large a number of Alderpersons present as were
present when such vote was taken.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.040) (Ord. 15-01, passed 4-9-2015)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Retirement plan
Officers
   
31.15   Establishment of positions
   
31.16   Terms
   
31.17   Qualifications
   
31.18   Vacancies
   
31.19   Conflict of interest
   
31.20   Public records; publication
   
31.21   Bonds
   
31.22   Finance Officer
   
31.23   Superintendent of Public Utilities
Organizations
   
31.35   Volunteer Fire Department
   
31.36   Library Board
   
31.37   Cemetery Committee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 RETIREMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Participation. The city shall be a participating municipality in the
State Retirement System, as provided by law, for the purpose of general
employees in its employ under the State Retirement System, hereinafter called
the “retirement system.”
      (1)   The effective date of the city’s participation in the retirement
system is January 1, 1966.
      (2)   All general employees of the city on or after January 1, 1966,
whose status and hours of employment meet the requirements of the retirement
system shall be included in the membership of the retirement system.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.010)
   (B)   Payments into plan. The City Finance Officer is directed to deduct the
applicable percentage of the salaries paid to general employees and forward
same to the retirement system; such deductions to be made from each and every
eligible employee’s salary on each and every payroll after January 1, 1966. The
City Finance Officer is further directed to pay, from city funds, a matching
applicable percentage that was paid by employees participating in the
retirement plan and forward same to the retirement system together with payment
of employees’ applicable percentage.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.020)
OFFICERS
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITIONS.
   The officers of the city shall include the following: Finance Officer,
Public Works Director, and such additional officers as may be deemed necessary
for the proper administration of municipal business. Such officers shall be
hired by the Mayor and Council members and shall hold office until their
successors are duly hired and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.010) (Ord. 12-2, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 31.16 TERMS.
   Each city officer shall enter upon the discharge of his or her duties as
soon as each has duly qualified and shall hold office until his or her
successor has been hired and is duly qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.020) (Ord. 12-2, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 31.17 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Mayor and Alderperson shall qualify by filing the municipal oath with
the City Finance Officer. All other officers may be required to take an oath of
office before entering upon the discharge of duties. The oath shall be
subscribed by the person taking it and shall be filed and preserved in the
office of the Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.030) (Ord. 12-2, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 31.18 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. The removal of any city officer, Alderperson, or Mayor for
which he or she was elected, appointed, or hired shall cause a vacancy in the
office or position. Reasons for removal may be, but are not limited to: his or
her failure (after notice of his or her election, appointment, or hiring) to
qualify and enter into the duties of his or her office or the conviction of any
such officer of any public offense other than a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.040)
   (B)   Fill vacancies. In the case of vacancy for officers, regardless of the
cause, the vacancy shall be filled by advertising and hiring. Vacancies in the
office of Alderpersons shall be filled until the next regular election by
appointment of the Council with a qualified person from the ward in which the
vacancy exists.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.050)
(Ord. 12-2, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 31.19 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   The city follows the provisions of SDCL Chapters 5-18A and 6-1 and other
applicable laws regarding conflict of interest for municipal officials and
employees.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.060) (Ord. 12-2, passed 6-7-2012; Ord. 18-10, passed 11-1-
2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapters 3-23, 5-18A, and 6-1
§ 31.20 PUBLIC RECORDS; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   Public records. Every city officer shall keep a record of the official
acts and proceedings of his or her office, and such record shall be open to
public inspection during the business hours under reasonable restriction. Fees
shall be charged for copies of any public records that are requested, pursuant
to SDCL § 1-27-35.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.070)
   (B)   Publications. The Finance Officer shall deliver to the official
newspaper within seven days, pursuant to SDCL § 9-18-1.1, a full account of the
proceedings of each meeting of the City Council, giving a detailed statement of
all expenditures of money, the names of the persons to whom payment is made,
and showing the services rendered therefor. The newspaper publishing such
proceedings shall receive payment as set by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.080)
(Ord. 12-2, passed 6-7-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 1-27-35 and 9-18-1.1
§ 31.21 BONDS.
   It shall be the duty of the city to pay the premium on all bonds required to
be furnished by city officers, employees, and officials.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.090) (Ord. 12-2, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 31.22 FINANCE OFFICER.
   The duties of the City Finance Officer shall be as follows.
   (A)   He or she shall keep his or her office at such place as the governing
body may direct.
   (B)   He or she shall keep the corporate seal, all papers and records of the
municipality, and a record of the proceedings of the governing body whose
meetings it shall be his or her duty to attend.
   (C)   He or she shall draw and countersign all warrants on the treasury in
pursuance of orders or resolutions of the governing body and keep a full and
accurate account thereof in books provided for that purpose.
   (D)   He or she shall cause to be made estimates of the expenses of any work
done by the municipality and countersign all contracts made on its behalf.
   (E)   He or she shall keep regular books of account in which he or she shall
enter all indebtedness of the municipality and shall, at all times, show the
financial condition of the city; the amount of bonds, warrants, certificates,
or other evidences of indebtedness issued by the city; and the amounts of all
bonds, warrants, certificates, or other evidences of indebtedness which have
been redeemed and the amount of each outstanding.
   (F)   He or she shall countersign all bonds, warrants, or other evidences of
indebtedness of the municipality and keep accurate account thereof, stating to
whom and for what purpose issued and the amount thereof.
   (G)   He or she shall keep an account with all receiving and disbursing
officers of the city showing the amount they have received from the different
sources of revenue and the amount which they have disbursed under the direction
of the governing body.
   (H)   He or she shall audit and adjust all claims and demands against the
city before they are allowed by the governing body, keep a record of his or her
accounts and doings, keep a record in which he or she shall enter all contracts
with an index thereto (which books shall be open to the inspection of all
parties interested) and perform such other duties as may be required by
ordinances, resolution, or direction of the governing body.
   (I)   He or she shall report to the governing body by the first meeting in
May each year the receipts, expenses, and financial condition of the
municipality, which report shall be published within 30 days thereafter in the
official paper.
   (J)   He or she shall make and keep a list of outstanding municipal bonds,
to whom issued, for what purpose, when and where payable, and the rate of
interest they respectively bear and recommend such action to the governing body
as will secure the prompt payment of the principal and interest of such bonds.
   (K)   He or she shall report annually by the first meeting in November to
the governing body an estimate of the expenses of the municipality and the
revenue necessary to be raised for the ensuing year.
   (L)   He or she shall receive all money belonging to the municipality
(including taxes, licenses, fines, and income) from all other sources and keep
an accurate and detailed account thereof in such a manner as the governing body
may, from time to time, direct.
   (M)   He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation
and of the debits and credits belonging thereto.
   (N)   He or she shall keep all monies in his or her hands belonging to the
municipality separate and distinct from his or her own monies.
   (O)   He or she shall report to the governing body, upon request, a full and
detailed account of all receipts and expenditures since his or her last report
and the balances in the treasury.
   (P)   He or she shall keep a record of all warrants paid during the year
with their date, amount, number, the fund from which paid, and the person to
whom paid and the time of payment.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.010)
Statutory reference:
   Annual estimate by auditor or clerk of expenses and revenue, see SDCL § 9-
22-23
   Annual financial reports; publication; filing, see SDCL § 9-22-21
§ 31.23 SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Public Utilities shall keep his or her office,
when required, at some convenient place in the city.
   (B)   He or she shall perform all necessary duties to secure the successful
operation of the municipal waterworks and the municipal sewers.
   (C)   The governing body may, by ordinance, prescribe any further duties and
shall also fix his or her compensation.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.030)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.35 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Department and membership established. There is established a
Volunteer Fire Department for the city, to be composed of not less than 15
members including officers. No person shall be a member of the Department who
shall not have attained the age of 18 years. A list of the members shall be
filed with the City Finance Officer, and in the event of any changes to the
membership, a corrected list shall also be provided. The City Council may, at
will, increase or decrease the membership number by resolution. The Fire
Department shall have power to formulate and adopt bylaws for its government
which shall be approved by the City Council and filed with the City Finance
Officer. The bylaws shall be consistent with the provisions of this code and
may be amended under such rules and procedure as provided in the bylaws.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.010)
   (B)   Hazards of members. Each member, by joining the Department,
voluntarily assumes the hazards of injury or accident in the service with no
liability on behalf of the city, the elected officials, or employees.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.020)
   (C)   Officers, terms, term limits, and vacancies. The officers of the Fire
Department shall be the Chief, Assistant Chief I, Assistant Chief II,
Treasurer, and Secretary, who shall be elected annually at the regular November
meeting and will take office on January 1, with a term of one year. A vacancy
in any elected office shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term at
a special election called for that purpose by the Chief or Assistant Chief.
Notice of the special election shall be given in the same manner as notices of
regular meetings for the Department.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.030)
   (D)   Meetings. The Department shall hold regular monthly meetings and
special meetings for the transaction of business as deemed necessary and as
provided for in its bylaws. The Department shall be in control of its
membership and may remove or discharge any member (except for officers, as
provided for in division (D) above) under which condition, cause, and procedure
is provided for in its bylaws. The Department shall have the power to fix
membership fees and fines and provide for the collection thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.080)
   (E)   Finances. It shall be the duty of the City Finance Officer to track
the finances for the Fire Department with the city finances. Checking and/or
savings account will be kept separate from city funds and shall be maintained
by the City Finance Officer. Bills shall be submitted for payment no later than
2:00 p.m. the day before the City Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.110)
   (F)   Budget. A proposed budget for expenses and revenues shall be submitted
as requested to the Finance Officer on an annual basis.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.120)
(Ord. 10-13, passed 12-30-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.36 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   Board established. There is established a Library Board for the city
to be composed of two Council members and a maximum of five lay members
including officers. All members of the Board are authorized to vote. The City
Council may, at will, increase or decrease the membership of the Board by
resolution. The Library Board shall be responsible for the evaluation of all
librarians. Evaluations shall be done on an annual basis and completed by
December 1. The Library Board shall have power to formulate and adopt bylaws
for its government not inconsistent with the provisions of this code and may
amend the same under such rules and procedure as it shall in such bylaws
provide.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.010)
   (B)   Officers. The officers of the Library Board shall be the President,
Vice President, and Secretary. The Board President shall be in charge of all
meetings or the Vice President, in the absence of the President.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.020)
   (C)   Meetings. The Board shall, at a minimum, hold quarterly meetings and
special meetings for the transaction of business as deemed necessary and as
provided for in its bylaws.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.030)
   (D)   Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to attend all
meetings and to keep an accurate record of all meeting minutes and provide a
copy to each member of the Board. A copy of all the minutes shall be filed with
the City Finance Officer by the librarian, and copies shall be provided to the
Mayor and the City Council. All minutes shall be reviewed by the City Council
at the following regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.040)
   (E)   Librarian. It shall be the duty of the librarian to submit all bills
to the City Finance Officer for payment.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.050)
   (F)   Finances. It shall be the duty of the City Finance Officer to track
the finances for the library with the city finances. Checking and/or savings
account will be kept separate from city funds and shall be maintained by the
City Finance Officer. Bills shall be submitted for payment no later than 2:00
p.m. the day before the City Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.060)
   (G)   Budget. A proposed budget for expenses and revenues shall be submitted
upon request to the Finance Officer on an annual basis.
(Prior Code, § 2.18.070)
(Ord. 10-15, passed 12-30-2010)
§ 31.37 CEMETERY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Finances. It shall be the duty of the City Finance Officer to track
the finances for the cemetery with the city finances. Checking and/or saving
accounts will be kept separate from city funds and shall be maintained by the
City Finance Officer. Interest from saving accounts shall be divided with half
the amount deposited into the checking account and half of the amount to be
reinvested.
(Prior Code, § 2.19.030)
   (B)   Cemetery lots and records. It shall be the duty of the Finance Officer
to sell any cemetery lot. Lots shall be sold at a price as set from time to
time. There shall be no more than two occupants in a lot, whether it is a
burial or cremation or any combination thereof. Records of cemetery deeds and
lots shall be kept in duplication within the Finance Office.
(Prior Code, § 2.19.050)
(Ord. 10-16, passed 12-30-2010)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCES AND FUNDS
Section
   
32.01   Annual municipal budget ordinance
   
32.02   Payment of money
   
32.03   Payment of warrants
   
32.04   Insurance of property
   
32.05   Emergency spending
§ 32.01 ANNUAL MUNICIPAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to SDCL § 9-21-34, the Annual Municipal Budget Ordinance
shall be submitted to the City Council for first reading not later than the
first regular meeting in November.
   (B)   The second reading of the Annual Municipal Budget Ordinance shall be
held at least five days after the first reading.
   (C)   The Annual Municipal Budget Ordinance shall be published prior to
December 31 following adoption.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.050) (Ord. 21-02, passed 8-23-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-21-34
§ 32.02 PAYMENT OF MONEY.
   No money shall be paid out of the treasury except, upon the warrant of the
Mayor and countersigned by the Finance Officer, bonds and interest coupons
which, when due, may be paid upon presentation; in case the same are payable at
some place other than within the city, the money for their redemption shall be
sent to the place where they are payable in time to meet such payment when due.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.010)
§ 32.03 PAYMENT OF WARRANTS.
   All warrants shall be paid in the order in which they are presented out of
the funds upon which they may be drawn, and the Finance Officer shall note on
the back of each warrant presented the date of such presentation and the date
of such payment. Every such warrant shall be paid upon presentation if there is
sufficient money in the fund upon which it is drawn to pay the same; if not, it
shall be registered as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.020)
§ 32.04 INSURANCE OF PROPERTY.
   The Finance Officer of the city shall, under the direction of the City
Council, keep all public property of the city properly protected by insurance
against loss or damage by fire, lightning, tornado, and hail in reliable and
responsible insurance companies and securely keep such policies or insurance.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.030)
§ 32.05 EMERGENCY SPENDING.
   (A)   The City Council deems it unnecessary to hold a special meeting when
an emergency occurs and approved monies are needed for the immediate repair.
   (B)   Purchases for routine maintenance supplies, not to exceed the amount
of $3,500, shall be approved by the Public Works Department, the Finance
Officer, and the Mayor. Should repairs other than routine be needed, an
emergency meeting of the applicable committee members, the Public Works
Director, the Finance Office, and the Mayor may be called. Issues other than
emergencies are to be resolved at regular Council meetings. The emergency
spending cost cannot exceed the amount of $20,000, at which time a special City
Council meeting would become necessary.
   (C)   The City Council grants committees the authority to approve emergency
spending not to exceed $20,000.
(Prior Code, § 3.24.010) (Ord. 07-10, passed - -; Ord. 11-10, passed 9-8-2011)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION
Section
Sales and Use Tax
   
33.01   Purpose; interpretation
   
33.02   Effective date
   
33.03   Collections
   
33.04   Use tax
Sales and Service Tax
   
33.15   Purpose; effective date
   
33.16   Collection
   
33.17   Rates
   
33.18   Revenue; allocation
 
   
33.99   Penalty
SALES AND USE TAX
§ 33.01 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional
needed revenue for the city by imposing a Municipal Retail Sales and Use Tax
pursuant to the powers granted the municipality by the state, by virtue of SDCL
Chapter 10-52, as amended, designated as the “Uniform Municipal Non-Ad Valorem
Tax Law.”
(Prior Code, § 3.14.010)
   (B)   Interpretation. It is declared to be the intent of this subchapter and
the taxes levied hereunder, that the same shall be interpreted and construed in
the same manner as all sections of the State Retail Occupational Sales and
Service Act (SDCL Chapter 10-45), as amended, and SDCL Chapter 10-46, as
amended, and that this shall be considered a similar tax except for the rate
thereof to that tax.
(Prior Code, § 3.14.070)
(Ord. 05-14, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapters 10-45, 10-46, and 10-52
§ 33.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   From and after the first day of January 2006, there is imposed as a
Municipal Retail Occupational Sales and Service Tax upon the privilege of
engaging in business a tax of 2% on the gross receipts of all persons engaged
in business within the jurisdiction and territorial limits of the city who are
subject to the State Retail Occupational Sales and Service Tax, as set forth in
SDCL Chapter 10-45, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 3.14.020) (Ord. 05-14, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 10-45
§ 33.03 COLLECTIONS.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to the authorization granted by SDCL Chapter 10-
52, as amended, which tax shall be collected by the Department of Revenue of
the state in accordance with the same rules and regulations applicable to State
Sales Taxes, as provided for by law, and under such additional rules and
regulations as the Commissioner of Revenue of the state shall lawfully make and
prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 3.14.030) (Ord. 05-14, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 10-52
§ 33.04 USE TAX.
   In addition to the tax hereinbefore imposed, there is imposed an Excise Tax
on the privilege of the use, storage, and consumption within the jurisdiction
and territorial limits of the city of all tangible personal property purchased
from and after the August 1, 1971, at the same rate as the Municipal Sales and
Service Tax hereinbefore established, upon all transactions or use, storage,
and consumption of tangible personal property which are subject to the State
Use Tax Act, as set forth in SDCL Chapter 10-46 and as amended.
(Prior Code, § 3.14.060) (Ord. 05-14, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 10-46
SALES AND SERVICE TAX
§ 33.15 PURPOSE; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional
needed revenue for the city imposing a tax upon sales of leases or rentals of
hotel, motel, campsites, or other lodging accommodations with the municipality
for periods of 28 consecutive days or less (see SDCL § 10-52A-2); sales of
alcoholic beverages, as defined in SDCL § 35-1-1; establishments where the
public is invited to eat, dine, or purchase and carry-out prepared food for
immediate consumption; and ticket sales or admissions to places of amusement,
athletic, or cultural events.
(Prior Code, § 3.16.010)
   (B)   Effective date and enactment of tax. From and after May 1, 1988, there
is imposed a Municipal Retail Occupational Sales and Service Tax upon the sales
of leases or rental of hotels, motels, campsites, or other lodging
accommodations within the municipality for periods of 28 consecutive days or
less, SDCL § 10-52A-2; sales of alcoholic beverages, as defined in SDCL § 35-1-
1; establishments where the public is invited to eat, dine, or purchase and
carry-out prepared food for immediate consumption; and the ticket sales or
admissions to places of amusement, athletic, or cultural events.
(Prior Code, § 3.16.020)
(Ord. 88-1, passed - -; Ord. 01-15, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 10-52A-2 and 35-1-1
§ 33.16 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL § 10-52A and
shall be collected by the State Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 3.16.030) (Ord. 88-1, passed - -; Ord. 02-3, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 10-52A
§ 33.17 RATES.
   The rate of tax upon the sales of leases or rentals of hotels, motels,
campsites, or other lodging accommodations within the municipality for periods
of 28 consecutive days or less, SDCL § 10-52A-2; sales of alcoholic beverages,
as defined in SDCL § 35-1-1; establishments where the public is invited to eat,
dine, or purchase and carry-out prepared food for immediate consumption; and
ticket sales or admissions to places of amusement, athletic, or cultural events
is 3%.
(Prior Code, § 3.16.040) (Ord. 88-1, passed - -; Ord. 01-15, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 10-52A-2 and 35-1-1
§ 33.18 REVENUE; ALLOCATION.
   Any revenue received under this subchapter in excess of 2% may be used only
for the purpose of land acquisition, architectural fees, construction costs,
and payment for civic center, auditoriums, or athletic facility buildings
including the maintenance, staffing, and operations of such facilities and the
promotion and advertising of the city, its facilities, attractions, and
activities.
(Prior Code, § 3.16.050) (Ord. 88-1, passed - -)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports on payments prescribed
by §§
33.01 through
33.04 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be a fine not to exceed $200, or imprisonment not to exceed
30 days or both (SDCL § 9-19-3). In addition, all collection remedies
authorized by SDCL Chapters 10-45 and 10-46, as amended are authorized for
collection of these excise taxes by the Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 3.14.080)
   (C)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
33.15 through
33.18 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not to exceed $200, imprisonment not to exceed 30
days, or both (SDCL § 9-19-3). In addition, all such collection remedies
authorized by SDCL Chapter 10-45 (and acts amendatory thereto) and SDCL Chapter
10-46 (and acts amendatory thereto) are authorized for collection of these
taxes by the Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 3.16.070)
(Ord. 88-1, passed - -; Ord. 01-15, passed - -; Ord. 05-14, passed - -)
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3 and Chapter 10-45 and 10-46
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Superintendent of Public Utilities
   
50.02   Work provided by city personnel
§ 50.01 SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Management and operation. The city-owned public utilities are its
water system and sewer system. Subject to the supervision of the City Council,
the city-owned public utilities shall be operated by a city employee to be
known as Superintendent of Public Utilities, to be employed by the Mayor and
subject to the approval of the City Council. The salary of such Superintendent
shall be paid monthly and shall be such sum as shall be fixed by the City
Council. The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall employ such
assistant or assistants as may be necessary for the regular dispatch of the
work and business of this Department. Such assistant or assistants shall be
under the direct supervision of the Superintendent of Public Utilities.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.010)
   (B)   Duties of Superintendent of Public Utilities. The duties of the
Superintendent of Public Utilities shall be as follows.
      (1)   He or she shall be responsible for the maintenance and operation of
the municipal water plant and its distribution system and also the city sewers.
      (2)   It shall be his or her duty to keep the public utilities in a good
state of repair to the end that service to consumers may be interrupted as
little as possible.
      (3)   He or she shall keep or cause to be kept monthly log sheets on
forms to be provided for that purpose on which shall be shown daily well
readings, meter readings, and such other facts as may be required to complete
such forms.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.020)
§ 50.02 WORK PROVIDED BY CITY PERSONNEL.
   The City Public Works Department may provide certain services to the
citizens and businesses of the city if said services are not provided by anyone
within a 50-mile radius of the city. These services are limited to street
sweeping, sewer cleaning, and sanding parking lots. These rates shall be set by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.010) (Ord. 07-3, passed - -; Ord. 12-1, passed 4-5-2012)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Right to collect; exceptions
   
51.03   Establishment of facility; applicability
   
51.04   Rubble site regulations
   
51.05   Unlawful dumping
   
51.06   Family unit container regulations
   
51.07   Charges
   
51.08   Commercial hauler license
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FAMILY DOMESTIC UNIT. Any single, independent family unit, irrespective of
the number of persons constituting such family. Each independent family unit
living in multiple-dwelling residences, apartment houses, or any type of
residence (including, but not limited to, trailer houses) which have normal
cooking facilities and is occupied more than three days a week shall be deemed
a FAMILY DOMESTIC UNIT for the purposes of this chapter. A rooming house that
supplies lodging only for hire and which does not serve meals to any lodgers
and does not permit cooking and eating on the premises shall be deemed a ONE-
FAMILY DOMESTIC UNIT for the purposes of this chapter.
   GARBAGE. Solid and semi-solid putrescible animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving, or
consumption of food or of material intended for use as food and all offal
excluding useful industrial byproducts from all public and private
establishments and from all residences.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste which is defined as hazardous by state, federal,
or local laws or regulations or which is deemed by the Director of Public Works
or City Council as posing a hazard to the waste facility, human health, or the
environment.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Includes material containing pathogens of sufficient
virulence and quantity that exposure to such material by a susceptible host
could result in an infectious disease. Such materials include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Isolation waste and material generated by contact with hospitalized
patients who are isolated to protect others from communicable diseases as
defined by the Center for Disease Control;
      (2)   Cultures and stocks of infectious agents and associated
biologicals, specimen cultures from medical and pathological laboratories,
cultures and stocks of infectious agents from research and industrial
laboratories, wastes from the productions of biologicals, and discarded live
and attenuated vaccines together with any culture dishes and devices used to
transfer, inoculate, or mix cultures or other such agents;
      (3)   Human blood and blood products, all waste human blood, and blood
products such as serum, plasma, and other blood components;
      (4)   Pathological waste consisting of tissue, organs, body parts, or
body fluids that are removed during surgery or autopsy;
      (5)   Contaminated sharps including hypodermic needles, syringes, pasteur
pipettes, broken glass, scalpel blades, and other similar items which have come
into contact with infectious agents during use in patient care or in medical
research;
      (6)   Contaminated animal carcasses, body parts, and bedding including
all such materials exposed to pathogens in research, and the production of
biologicals or in the in vitro testing of pharmaceuticals; and
      (7)   Miscellaneous contaminated waste including materials contaminated
by contact with pathogens during surgery or autopsy, laboratory testing or
experimentation, materials which were in contact with the blood of patients
undergoing hemodialysis, and all other materials contaminated by contact with
pathogens. INFECTIOUS WASTE shall not include material which has been rendered
noninfectious by autoclaving, incineration, or other process recognized and
accepted by the medical profession or material determined to be not infectious
by responsible, authorized, licensed practitioner at the facility at which such
waste was generated; provided, however, the Public Works Director, under the
direction of the City Council, shall have final authority within their sound
discretion to determine what is and what is not infectious waste.
   LIQUID WASTE. Liquids or waste containing free moisture.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and nonputrescible wastes including, but not limited to:
garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residues, street
cleanings, market and industrial solid wastes, and sewage treatment wastes in
dry or semi-solid form.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and
noncombustible wastes such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, trees or portions of trees, or other
litter with similar properties.
   SPECIAL WASTE. Includes all hazardous waste, liquid waste, infectious waste,
and other waste requiring special handling under any state, federal, or city
law or regulation.
   TOXIC WASTE. Any waste which is defined as toxic by state, federal, or local
laws or regulations or which is deemed by the Public Works Director or City
Council as posing a toxic hazard to the waste facility, human health, or the
environment.
   WASTE FACILITY. Any area designated by the City Council as a separate
transfer station or restricted use solid waste facility or recycling center.
   WHITE GOODS. All household appliances including, but not limited to: stoves,
refrigerators, washers, dryers, air conditioners, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.010) (Ord. 94-1, passed - -)
§ 51.02 RIGHT TO COLLECT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Right to collect. The city specifically reserves unto itself the
exclusive right to collect, remove, and dispose of all residential garbage,
trash, and refuse within the corporate limits of the city or its possessions;
provided, however, nothing herein shall limit or prevent the city from making
and entering into contracts with private person, corporations, or other
governmental subdivisions for the purpose of contracting for the collection,
removal, and disposal of all garbage. All commercial establishments (including,
but not limited to, motels, food service establishments, and retail and service
establishments) shall arrange for disposal of refuse generated by or accruing
to such establishment either by a licensed commercial garbage hauler or by
personnel and vehicles of such establishments.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.080)
   (B)   Exceptions. The owners or occupants of any premises within the limits
of the city, in addition to the duties imposed by this chapter, shall be
responsible for the removal, at their sole cost and expense, to the waste
facility or to such locations as may hereafter be designated by the Public
Works Director or City Council the following specific items:
      (1)   Discarded automobiles, automobile parts, furniture, and white
goods;
      (2)   Wool, hides, furs, waste materials from slaughter or packing houses
or junk yards, dead animal carcasses, or animal renderings;
      (3)   Construction waste and material;
      (4)   Christmas trees and tree waste;
      (5)   Manure, other than light spread manure for application to lawns or
gardens for fertilizing purposes; provided, however, manure is not being kept
on any premises for any purpose or kept in piles for later use is prohibited;
      (6)   Highly explosive or inflammable garbage, trash, or refuse; and
      (7)   All other specific items of garbage, trash, or refuse as may be
hereafter designated as excepted wastes by the Public Works Director or City
Council. The Public Works Director shall be and is authorized and empowered to
permit persons subject to the foregoing exceptions to accumulate such wastes
and to periodically dispose of the same subject to such reasonable terms as
specified by the Public Works Director. Otherwise, such accumulated wastes
shall be removed within 24 hours of accumulation. The city, by motion or
resolution, can mandate certain materials be eliminated from the waste facility
either by required recycling or disposal in an alternative site or by an
alternative method. Until such time as federal and state laws mandate or until
such time as the city mandates, as stated above, recycling of household items
shall be on a voluntary basis.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.090)
(Ord. 94-1, passed - -)
§ 51.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF FACILITY; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Establishment of facility. The City Council establishes the following
real property: SE one-quarter/SW one-quarter, SW one-quarter/SE one-quarter,
Sec. 33, T1N, R16E of BHM as the restricted use solid waste facility, and Tract
A of Outlot 1 (SW one-quarter/SE one-quarter, and Tract B, SE one-quarter/SE
one-quarter, Sec. 31, T1N, R16E of BHM, Pennington County, South Dakota)
together with such further property, public or private, as may hereafter be
used in connection therewith, as the same may be established by resolution of
the City Council, to be an authorized solid waste facility or temporary or
permanent depository of garbage, trash, or refuse for the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.020)
   (B)   Regulation. All general ordinances of the city are declared to be
applicable to all waste facility sites.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.040)
(Ord. 94-1, passed - -)
§ 51.04 RUBBLE SITE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Free rubble site dump. One free dump of a pickup size load is allowed
with a current paid city utility bill. CURRENT shall be defined as the current
month. No other previous utility bill will be allowed for a free dump. The use
of another person’s utility bill will not be allowed unless that person is
present in the vehicle. White goods, tires, asbestos, waste oil, petroleum-
contaminated soil, and other banned items are exempt from the Free Dump Policy
and will be charged a fee. This policy is good during the normal working hours
of the rubble site that will be set and can be changed by resolution. Fees for
services may be changed by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.130)
   (B)   Recycling at the rubble site. Recycling at the rubble site is
prohibited by any person under the age of 18 years of age. Persons over the age
of 18 will be permitted only when a release agreement has been properly filled
out and filed with the City Finance Office. The release agreement will need to
be filled out and filed with the City Finance Office each year before a person
can continue recycling at the rubble site.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.135)
(Ord. 08-4, passed - -; Ord. 09-4, passed 5-7-2009; Ord. 10-9, passed 10-5-
2010)
§ 51.05 UNLAWFUL DUMPING.
   (A)   Unlawful dumping. No garbage, trash, or refuse shall be stored or
accumulated anywhere within the limits of the city in a manner other than
authorized by this chapter nor thrown or swept into any street, gutter, sewer,
intake, alley, vacant lot, pond, or any other property, public or private.
Every occupied premises within the city shall be responsible for the keeping of
the alley to the rear of and the sidewalks in front of or abutting any building
or improvements free from any accumulation of garbage, trash, or refuse. No
commercial establishment or resident shall throw any garbage, trash, or refuse
generated out of the commercial establishment or residence into any city-owned
container except as designated for such use. No garbage, trash, or refuse
(except as designated by this chapter) shall be stored or accumulated at the
old dump site or the restricted use site. The unlawful dumping shall be
punishable under state law.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.050)
   (B)   Unlawful usage of other dumpsters. No commercial establishment or
resident shall throw any garbage, trash, or refuse generated out of the
commercial establishment or residence into any container except for their own
container designated for such use.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.055)
(Ord. 94-1, passed - -; Ord. 12-7, passed 12-6-2012) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 FAMILY UNIT CONTAINER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All family domestic units within the city shall dispose of their
refuse in the following manner.
All refuse shall be placed in metal or plastic garbage cans equipped with
tightly-fitted covers or in plastic bags suitably designed and sufficiently
strong to hold and confine the materials placed therein. Garbage cans shall be
not more than 32-gallon capacity. Materials placed into a garbage can shall be
drained and wrapped in paper to avoid odor and to prevent freezing to the can.
No hot ashes shall be placed into any garbage container. All ashes must be
placed in a cardboard box separate from all other garbage. The Public Works
Director or City Council may require the use of plastic or metal garbage cans
at any location if a persistent problem exists with animals breaking plastic
bags.
   (B)   Garbage cans and waste material containers required by this section
shall be kept on the premises adjacent to an alley bordering on the premises
and so as to be accessible from the alley adjoining the premises. Where no
alley is available, garbage cans and waste material containers shall be placed
on the parkway or parking adjoining the premises on the day of the garbage
collection only during such times as is practically necessary to permit
scheduled collection and in no event more than 24 hours before or after the
scheduled collection time. Garbage cans and waste material containers shall be
so placed that the collectors of garbage do not have to carry such cans or
containers for a distance of more than ten feet to reach the collection
vehicle. No garbage truck shall be required to use any private driveway in
collecting refuse under the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall place any hazardous or special waste into any
container for collection by the city or any commercial refuse collector
authorized by the city to collect garbage and the like.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.070) (Ord. 94-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 CHARGES.
   (A)   The city shall make a charge for each month for the collection and
disposal of refuse from each family domestic unit within the city. Such charges
for collection and disposal of refuse shall be payable by and chargeable to
either the owner or occupant of each dwelling and occupied by a family domestic
unit. Such charge shall be added to the monthly water bill for each family
domestic unit and shall be due and payable with and in addition to such water
bill. All utility charges (including, but not limited to, refuse collection and
disposal) shall be due by the first of the month following the service and
delinquent by the tenth of the month following. In the event of nonpayment of
the refuse collection and disposal charges, water service and refuse collection
service to the dwelling unit may be forthwith discontinued by the city.
   (B)   In the event refuse collection and disposal service shall be provided
by the city under the provisions of this chapter from any family domestic unit
within the city, not independently served by the city water service and charged
therefor, the owner and occupant of the dwelling unit occupied by such family
domestic unit shall be charged for each month at the same rate that water users
are charged. Such refuse collection and disposal service charge shall be
forthwith payable to the city by either the owner or occupant of such dwelling
unit. In the event of failure of payment of such charges, refuse collection and
disposal service to such dwelling unit may be forthwith discontinued.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing methods of charges and collections for
refuse collection and disposal, the Finance Officer, under the direction of the
City Council, may from time to time adopt, use, and enforce such other methods
of billing and collection as may be reasonable, efficient, feasible, and
appropriate to the end that, in every case, all collection and disposal charges
provided by this section shall be paid.
   (D)   Rates for the charges for collection and disposal of garbage and
refuse shall be set by resolution by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.100) (Ord. 94-1, passed - -; Ord. 05-2, passed - -)
§ 51.08 COMMERCIAL HAULER LICENSE.
   (A)   Definition. A COMMERCIAL HAULER, for the purposes of this section,
shall be defined as any person who hauls or transports garbage, trash, refuse,
rubbish, and waste material through or upon the streets or alleys of this city
for a consideration or a fee or as a part of a business activity.
   (B)   License required. It is unlawful for a commercial hauler to haul or
transport any garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash, or waste material through or
upon any street or alley of this city without first having obtained a license
to perform such services from the city.
      (1)   Application for license. The application for a license required by
the provisions herein shall be filed at the office of the Municipal Finance
Officer.
      (2)   Amount of fee. The annual fee of the license shall be determined by
the City Council by the adoption of a resolution.
      (3)   Approval required. Before any license shall be issued under the
provisions of this section, the same shall first be approved by the City
Council.
      (4)   Financial assurance. Prior to issuance of such license, the
commercial hauler shall provide financial assurance in the form of a bond,
letter of credit, certificate of deposit, or other assurance acceptable to the
city in an amount to be established by resolution of the City Council to assure
performance in conformity with federal, state, and local regulations.
      (5)   Proof of insurance. Prior to issuance of such license, the
commercial hauler must provide proof of liability and workers’ compensation
insurance. Thereafter, proof of insurance shall be provided annually on or
before December 31 of each year to the City Finance Officer.
      (6)   Indemnification. As part of the license agreement, the commercial
hauler shall indemnify the city against and hold the city harmless from any
expense, liability, and claims of any kind of character arising out of either
the commercial hauler’s failure to follow of federal, state, city, and landfill
regulations or arising out of any injury or damage occurring during the course
of conducting his or her business.
      (7)   Landfill contract. Prior to issuance of such license, the
commercial hauler shall provide proof of a contract to haul to a landfill
certified by the state and authorized by the city.
      (8)   Transfer. No license issued under the provisions of this section
shall be transferable.
      (9)   Expiration. Every license issued under the provisions of this
section shall be reviewed for renewal or expiration on or before December 31
following its date of issuance.
      (10)   Display of license. A copy of the license issued hereunder shall
be displayed on/in each vehicle at all times.
      (11)   Licenses generally. Licensed commercial haulers shall provide
themselves with suitable vehicles which shall be watertight and shall be
permanently covered on top so as to prevent the escape of odors and contents
and so as to hide the garbage form the public view. Such vehicles shall be
thoroughly washed at such times as may be directed by the city or as may be
necessary to keep vehicles in proper sanitary condition. Such vehicles, when
conveying garbage, shall be so loaded and unloaded that the contents shall not
fall or spill upon the ground. No article or item shall be carried on such
vehicle so as to drag upon the street. All vehicles used for the collection of
garage shall be equipped with an all-metal box which shall otherwise comply
with the requirements of this section. All-metal boxes shall be equipped with
metal doors which shall be in a closed position when the truck is in motion.
      (12)   Loading of vehicles. Vehicles used for transporting garbage,
trash, rubbish, and waste material to a sanitary landfill shall be so loaded
that no material shall fall off or be blown off the vehicle while in transit.
      (13)   Revocation. Any license issued under the provisions of this
section may be revoked by the City Council for the violation by the licensee of
any applicable provision of state law or city ordinance, rule, or regulation.
      (14)   Frequency of garbage collection. Collections from family domestic
units shall be at least once a week. Collections from commercial units shall be
frequent enough so as to avoid unsanitary conditions.
      (15)   Reporting of weights. All licensed commercial haulers will report
to the City Finance Officer, on a monthly basis, the total weight and/or
tonnage of garbage, trash, rubbish, and waste materials collected within the
city for every calendar month. Each hauler will provide certified scale weigh
tickets or other form of certified weight measures deemed acceptable by the
city for garbage collected within the city on or before the tenth of every
calendar month for the previous month’s garbage collections.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.140) (Ord. 04-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter or any subdivision thereof is declared
to be contrary to the public welfare and is declared to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.120)
   (B)   Any person who is caught recycling at the rubble site without
following the proper procedure, as stated in §
51.04, will be fined up to $100 and will be required to file the release
agreement with the City Finance Office.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.135)
    (C)   The unlawful usage of other dumpsters, according to §
51.05, shall be punishable under §
10.99 and/or state law.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.055)
(Ord. 94-1, passed - -; Ord. 08-4, passed - -; Ord. 12-7, passed 12-6-2012)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Municipal waterworks system authority
   
52.03   Compliance
   
52.04   Use during fires unlawful
   
52.05   Water conservation
   
52.06   Customer complaints
   
52.07   Notification for shut-off and turn-ons
   
52.08   Inspections
New Service
   
52.20   Application for service
   
52.21   Deposit for new service
   
52.22   Users outside of city limits
   
52.23   New remote water meter bills
Installation and Standards
   
52.35   Connection to water
   
52.36   Meter installations and tests
   
52.37   Unauthorized water use
   
52.38   Standards for installing water service
Fees, Payments, and Billing
   
52.50   Rates; payments
   
52.51   Temporary disconnect service charge
   
52.52   Commercial reconnection fee
   
52.53   Bill adjustment in case of leaks
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   AVAILABILITY CHARGE. Having a meter installed for available water usage but
will not include water usage and will be subject to a monthly fee.
   COMMERCIAL. All other premises not herein specified; each school or
government building shall be metered and charged at the regular commercial
rate.
   IN KIND. Usage that is metered for reporting purposes but not charging the
account for this usage.
   MINIMUM CHARGES. Availability charge and usage up to 2,000 gallons of water
per month.
   NONPROFIT. An account that is defined as such from a decision made by the
Council.
   OUT-OF-CITY LIMITS USER. Any user, whether it is commercial or residential,
that is not located within the city limits and is using city water.
   OWNER/CONSUMER. Any person who is the owner and consumer of the property
served.
   RESIDENTIAL. As herein used, includes all premises occupied and used
exclusively as a home by not more than two families.
   SPECIAL WATER. Any user of water that is set at a reduced rate that is only
decided by the Council and the rate may be set by resolution.
   UNSUBSIDIZED FEE. A monthly charge for the purpose of supplementing the
needed operational expenses that are not covered by the revenue. Out-of-city
limit users are subject to this charge.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.140) (Ord. 05-18, passed - -; Ord. 10-7, passed 8-5-2010;
Ord. 18-02, passed 6-1-2018)
§ 52.02 MUNICIPAL WATERWORKS SYSTEM AUTHORITY.
   The municipal waterworks system shall be operated as a public utility of the
municipality, and the rates, charges, rentals, regulations, and provisions of
this chapter shall be and remain applicable thereto until duly amended. This
municipality reserves the right and power to amend this chapter as the need or
as propriety thereof arises, and the rates and charges herein specifically
specified may be increased or decreased provided that, as so amended, the gross
receipts of the system shall be sufficient each year to pay all costs of
operation and maintenance, depreciation, principal and interest on indebtedness
therefor, and reserves which may be required.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.010)
§ 52.03 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Customer consent to rules. Every person applying for water service
from the municipality and every owner of property for which such application is
made shall be deemed by such application to consent to all the rules,
regulations, and rates contained in the resolutions and ordinances of the
municipality and to any modification thereof and to all new rules, regulations,
or rates duly adopted.
   (B)   Penalty for noncompliance. The municipality reserves the right to
discontinue service to any or all consumers of the water system, without notice
when necessary for repairs, for nonpayment of bills or for disregard of rules
and regulations affecting the service. When service has been discontinued for
nonpayment of bills or for disregard of regulations, it shall not be resumed
except upon payment of the bill together with penalty thereon, full compliance
with the regulations, and the payment of a fee of $25 to the City Finance
Officer for re-establishment of service.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.070) (Ord. 92-3, passed - -)
§ 52.04 USE DURING FIRES UNLAWFUL.
   It is declared to be unlawful for any person in this municipality or any
person owning or occupying premises connected to the municipal water system to
use or allow to be used during a fire any water from the system except for the
purpose of extinguishing the fire, and upon the sound of the fire alarm, it
shall be the duty of every such person to see that all water services are
tightly closed and that no water is used, except for necessary household
purposes, during the fire.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.090) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   No outside watering (including lawn, trees, and garden irrigation)
shall be permitted during the months hereafter specified. Outside watering
shall be allowed between the house of 6:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. according to the
following schedule: outside watering shall be allowed during the designated
hours at addresses bearing an even number of days of the month bearing an even
date and may be allowed at addresses bearing the odd number on days of the
month bearing an odd number, and no outside watering shall be allowed on the
thirty-first day of any month. No outside watering is allowed from 9:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m.
   (B)   (1)   Normal status. The aforesaid measures shall apply during the
months June, July, and August of each year.
      (2)   Alert status. During such times as when any one of the wells is out
of service for longer than two days, outside watering hours will be from 10:00
p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
      (3)   Critical status. During such times as when any two or more of the
wells is out of service for longer than two days, no outside watering will be
permitted.
   (C)   The Public Works Director shall notify the Council monthly on the
condition of the wells. Based upon the information by the Public Works
Director, the Council shall determine which condition exists. If the Council
shall determine that the status of the wells has changed from the previous
determination, it shall publish notice of its new determination in the legal
newspaper and shall make such news releases as it may find appropriate to
inform the public of such change in status and the restrictions which shall
then apply.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.010) (Ord. 00-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS.
   All claims for defective service shall be made in writing and filed with the
Superintendent of Public Utilities on or before the tenth of the month next
succeeding such defective service or be deemed waived by the claimant, and if
such claims are so filed, it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the
Public Utilities to investigate the facts alleged in such claim and determine
the amount, if any, which shall be refunded to such claimant by reason of such
defective service and report such determination to the governing body; if
approved, such amount shall be allowed as a credit on the following bill or
paid as other claims, but no claim shall be made against the municipality on
account of any fire or any injuries to the person or property of any consumer
of water under the provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.060)
§ 52.07 NOTIFICATION FOR SHUT-OFF AND TURN-ONS.
   (A)   Notification for shut-off. It shall be the responsibility of property
owners with rental property to notify the city office to shut the water off
when a renter moves out. If the city office is not notified, the minimum charge
will be assessed and the property owner shall be financially responsible for
paying the bill.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.125)
   (B)   Notification for turn-ons. Utility service that has been shut off by
the customer for a portion of the year will need to contact the public works or
city office to have the service reinstated. It may take one business day for
services to be turned back on and notice for reinstatement will need to be
given during business hours only.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.126)
(Ord. 10-4, passed 4-8-2010; Ord. 18-02, passed 6-1-2018)
§ 52.08 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Engineer, the Superintendent of the Water Department, or
other officer, employee, or agent of the City Water Department shall have the
right and authority to enter the premises or building of a customer at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of reading, removing, installing, testing, or
repairing meters or examining piping.
   (B)   Such official, employee, or agent shall have the authority to shut the
water off from any premises or building for nonpayment of water bills or to
enforce repair of service between water main and the meter or to prevent waste
of water.
   (C)   Such officials, employees, or agents shall have the authority to shut
off the water from any main or mains for the purpose of repairs or
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.155) (Ord. 06-9, passed - -)
NEW SERVICE
§ 52.20 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Any person desiring water service from the water system of the
municipality for premises not theretofore connected with the system shall apply
for a connection on a form provided by the municipality. Such application shall
give an exact description of the premises to be served. Such application shall
be filed with the City Finance Officer, and the applicant shall, thereupon, pay
to the City Finance Officer (as and for a connection charge) the sum of $100
for residential, $150 for commercial, and $500 for out-of-city limit users.
   (B)   These connection fees may be changed by resolution, and such payment
shall be returned to the applicant if the application is refused. Such
connection charge shall entitle the applicant to connection with the water main
and supervision by the municipality of the applicants connection with the
premises. Such connection charges shall be applicable only to premises fronting
or abutting on streets or alleys wherein municipal water mains are laid.
   (C)   In the event that application is received for service to other
premises, the charge shall be determined by the governing board at the time
such application is granted but in no event shall be less than the estimated
actual cost thereof to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.020) (Ord. 01-20, passed - -; Ord. 10-7, passed 8-5-2010)
§ 52.21 DEPOSIT FOR NEW SERVICE.
   There shall be a deposit required of all new water service consumers at the
time the service is established in their name. This deposit shall be returned
to the consumer upon termination of service, less any amount that is owed to
the city. The deposit may be returned to the owner/consumer upon completing a
full year of service with a timely payment record. The deposit fee amount may
be changed by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.130) (Ord. 06-3, passed - -; Ord. 09-15, passed 11-5-2009;
Ord. 16-06, passed 10-19-2016)
§ 52.22 USERS OUTSIDE OF CITY LIMITS.
   When a request is made for connection to the city water main from a property
owner that is not located within the city limits, the following will apply.
There will be a monthly availability fee and unsubsidized fee which does not
include any water usage. Water usage will be charged at a per thousand gallon
rate. These rates shall be set and changed by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.135) (Ord. 10-7, passed 8-5-2010)
§ 52.23 NEW REMOTE WATER METER BILLS.
   (A)   Once a new remote water meter has been installed within a residential
or commercial property, the City Public Works Department will be reading these
meters each month. The City Finance Officer shall then mail out bills for these
new remote meter accounts only for water, sewer, and garbage on a monthly
basis.
   (B)   The current payment policy shall remain in effect for all accounts
that do not have the new remote water meters installed. The delinquency policy,
§
52.50, shall remain in effect for all accounts.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.170) (Ord. 05-6, passed - -)
INSTALLATION AND STANDARDS
§ 52.35 CONNECTION TO WATER MAIN.
   (A)   Separate and distinct connection required. Unless special permission
is granted by the Water Superintendent, the Mayor, and Water Committee, each
shall have a separate and distinct service connection; where permission is
granted for branch service systems, each branch system must have its separate
meter, curb stop, availability charge, minimum charge, and unsubsidized fee.
   (B)   Customer costs. The cost of original installation of all plumbing,
from and including the curb stop to the residence, and any service devices
maintained by the consumer and all extensions made to such plumbing shall be
borne entirely by the customer. Such plumbing and services, as well as the
meters, are (at all reasonable times) subject to inspection by a duly
authorized representative of the municipality. After the original installation,
the cost of curb stop replacement, all fittings, and cost of maintenance and
repairs to the service line from the curb stop to the residence shall be borne
by the consumer. In the event a duly authorized representative of the
municipality finds that any such repairs are necessary, he or she shall so
advise the consumer. If such repairs shall not be made promptly, the
municipality shall be authorized to discontinue service.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.030) (Ord. 10-7, passed 8-5-2010; Ord. 11-07, passed 8-4-
2011; Ord. 14-02, passed 4-8-2014)
§ 52.36 METER INSTALLATIONS AND TESTS.
   Every customer shall provide a suitable place where a meter can be
installed, and if at any time the customer desires to have the meter tested for
accuracy, the same shall be done by the municipality and a fee of the testing
charged therefor to the custom or if the meter registers 98% (or more than 98%)
accurate. If the meter registers less than 98% accurate, it shall be replaced.
In the event a meter is damaged because of neglect, carelessness, or some fault
of the consumer, such meter shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of
such consumer, and such cost shall be added to the next water bill rendered to
such customer.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.040) (Ord. 01-20, passed - -)
§ 52.37 UNAUTHORIZED WATER USE.
   It is unlawful for any person to use water from any premises without the
consent of the owner or to use water from the municipal water system except to
be drawn through a meter installed by the customer. No person except an
authorized representative of the Water Superintendent shall turn on or off or
tamper with any water service connection.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.050) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.38 STANDARDS FOR INSTALLING WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   In installing water service, the meter must be installed under
supervision of the Superintendent of Public Utilities.
   (B)   There shall be a meter in every service line attached to the water
main. There shall be one or more stops and waste cocks attached to every supply
pipe at some point between the main and the meter so water can be shut off
entirely if the meter and the house plumbing need to be drained. There shall be
another such stop and waste cock in the pipe on the house side of the meter.
This cost shall be borne by the consumer, reference under §
52.35.
   (C)   Check valves are required on all water connections to steam boilers or
any other connection deemed by the Superintendent of Public Utilities to
require one. Safety and release valves shall be placed on all boilers or other
steam apparatus connections with the water system where the steam pressure may
be raised in excess of 50 pounds per square inch.
   (D)   All service pipes connected with the water system from the water mains
to water meters shall be copper or poly pipe if they meet the following
standards:
      (1)   Water main and service line piping (two inches and smaller): three-
fourth inch through two-inch diameter shall be HDPE, SDR 7 (200 psi) water
service line pipe (IPS) per ASTM D2239, and AWWA C901; and
      (2)   Fittings for the poly pipe shall meet all three standards:
         (a)   Compression type, polypropylene, with UV stabilization;
         (b)   True stab assembly with gripper-type restraining device; and
         (c)   Two hundred psi pressure rating, suitable for IPS pipe.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.080) (Ord. 10-11, passed 11-9-2010; Ord. 11-07, passed 8-
4-2011)
FEES, PAYMENTS, AND BILLING
§ 52.50 RATES; PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Rates. Unless otherwise provided by ordinance amendatory hereof or
supplemental hereto or by resolution pertaining to water main hook-up fees, the
rates, charges, and rentals for service and benefits furnished by the water
system shall be as follows: in kind, unsubsidized fees; availability charges;
hook-up fees; and water rates for residential, commercial, out-of-city limits
user, nonprofit, and special water will be set by resolution by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.100)
   (B)   Payment and delinquency. All water meters, whether they are active or
shut off and regardless of the amount of snow accumulation, shall be read by
the Public Works Department between the twentieth and the twenty-seventh of
each month. A bill shall be created, and payment for such bill shall be paid by
the tenth of the following month. Any payment received after the tenth day of
the month following the water consumption shall be determined delinquent and
will be charged a $10 delinquent fee. A notice to all delinquent accounts will
be mailed after the tenth of the month stating the account is delinquent, and
service will be terminated by 4:00 p.m. on the last working day of said month
if payment is not received. Service will not be reconnected until all charges
due shall be paid including delinquent charges, and a reconnect fee of $25. The
delinquent charges and reconnect fee may be changed by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.110)
(Ord. 10-7, passed 8-5-2010; Ord. 11-15, passed 12-29-2011; Ord. 18-02, passed
6-1-2018)
§ 52.51 TEMPORARY DISCONNECT SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   If any owner or occupant of a residential premises desires to have
water shut off or discontinued for a period of a month or more, there shall be
a charge of $25 to re-establish the service. If the water is not shut off, the
minimum charges will be assessed.
   (B)   A meter with a temporary connection shall be required to pay a turn-on
fee and six months of usage beginning May 1 and ending October 31. The minimum
fee will be charged even if water is not used during those months.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.120) (Ord. 92-3, passed - -; Ord. 16-06, passed 10-19-
2016)
§ 52.52 COMMERCIAL RECONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   If a commercial account holder so chooses to have their water
disconnected, at any time, there will be a reconnect fee. The reconnect fee
shall be the minimum commercial water and sewer charge per month multiplied by
the number of months the water was disconnected plus an additional fee of $15.
No more than a maximum of 12 months shall be charged to the current commercial
property owner when services are reconnected.
   (B)   The city will not be liable for any water damage from the curb-stop
and towards the owner’s property or sewer damages if the water is left
connected during any time frame that the commercial business is closed.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.160) (Ord. 05-4, passed - -)
§ 52.53 BILL ADJUSTMENT IN CASE OF LEAKS.
   (A)   If any adjustment is requested on any water bill based upon a
consumer’s proof of leaks in piping unknown to the consumer, during the
preceding month (plumbing fixtures excluded), the adjustment shall not be more
than 50% of the bill after the minimum charge has been deducted, and no
adjustment shall be made on more than one month out of any 12 monthly periods.
Reasonable proof of leaks must be established before any adjustment will be
made.
   (B)   If any adjustment is requested on any water bill based upon a
consumer’s proof of a faulty metering device and if such device has not been
tampered with, the adjustment may be made based upon prior normal usage for
that account prior to the time the metering device became faulty.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.156) (Ord. 10-4, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Once a new remote water meter has been installed within a
residential or commercial property, the City Public Works Department will be
reading these meters at the end of each month. The City Finance Officer shall
then mail out bills for these new remote meter accounts only for water, sewer,
and garbage on a monthly basis.
      (2)   The current payment policy shall remain in effect for all accounts
that do not have the new remote water meters installed. The delinquency policy,
§
52.50, shall remain in effect for all accounts.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.070)
   (B)   The Public Works Director will inform the Council of any violations of
§
52.06, and it shall be the Public Works Director’s responsibility to adhere to
these provisions. First violation reprimand shall be in person and explain the
ordinance and the odd/even days. Second violation shall be a written letter
from the Public Works Director. Third violation of §
52.06 shall be a fine of $25, and an additional $25 added on to previous
violations thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.010)
(Ord. 00-2, passed - -; Ord. 05-6, passed - -)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Municipal sewer use required
   
53.03   Connection to sewer main
   
53.04   Discharge standards; when interceptors required
Administration and Rates
   
53.20   Application
   
53.21   Rates and charges
   
53.22   Wastewater Treatment Facilities Replacement Fund
   
53.23   Inspections
   
53.24   Hearing Board
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quality of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days of 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the municipal sewer
or other place of disposal.
   COMMERCIAL. Includes all other premises which are not classed as
residential.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   IN KIND. Usage that is metered for reporting purposes but not charging the
account for this usage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE or INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater or liquid wastes from
industrial processes, trade, or business as distinct from domestic or sanitary
wastes or sanitary sewage.
   MUNICIPAL SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights and is controlled by public authority.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of ground or surface water.
   NONPROFIT. An account that is defined as such as a decision made by the
Council.
   OUT-OF-CITY LIMITS USER. Any user whether it is commercial or residential
that is not located within the city limits and is using city sewer.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in
municipal sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   RESIDENTIAL. Includes all premises occupied and used exclusively as a home
by not more than two families.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, ground, and
surface waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pulping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Sewer System of the municipality
or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Total suspended matter that either floats on
the surface of or is in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable
residue.
   UNSUBSIDIZED FEE. A monthly charge for the purpose of supplementing the
needed operational expenses that are not covered by the revenue. Out-of-city
limit users are subject to this charge.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.010) (Ord. 90-2, passed - -; Ord. 10-8, passed 9-9-2010;
Ord. 18-03, passed 6-1-2018)
§ 53.02 MUNICIPAL SEWER USE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner, upon public or private property within the
municipality or in any area under the jurisdiction of the municipality, any
human or animal excrement, garbage, or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
municipality or in any area under the jurisdiction of the municipality any
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   It is unlawful to construct or maintain any privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
municipality and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there
is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the
municipality is required, at his or her expense, to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
municipal sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90
days after date of official notice to do so provided that the municipal sewer
is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.020) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 CONNECTION TO SEWER MAIN.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (B)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway; the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer. Under exceptional circumstances, the
Superintendent may waive the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The building sewer shall be of a suitable material approved by the
Superintendent. Joints shall be tight and waterproof. If installed in filled or
unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe except that
nonmetallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed or
cradle as approved by the Superintendent.
   (E)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
four inches. The slope of such four-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth
inch per foot. It shall be required that the wye connection and building drain
shall be uncovered and the differential elevation be determined before
construction is begun. Where practicable, the building connection shall be laid
on a uniform grade between these two points.
   (F)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar
as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe
and fittings.
   (G)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the municipal sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (H)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM Specification
C12-19 except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected.
   (I)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and watertight.
Cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and filled with
molten lead, Federal Specification QQ-L-156, not less than one inch deep. Lead
shall be run in one pouring and caulked tight. No paint, varnish, or other
coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until after the joint has
been tested and approved. All joints in vitrified clay pipe and metals shall be
made with approved hot-pouring jointing material. Material for hot-poured
joints shall not soften sufficiently to destroy the effectiveness of the joint
when subjected to a temperature of 160°F nor be soluble in any of the wastes
carried by the drainage system. The joint shall first be caulked tight with
jute, hemp, or similar approved material. Other jointing materials and methods
may be used only by approval of the Superintendent.
   (J)   The connection for the building sewer into the municipal sewer shall
be made at the “Y” branch if such branch is available at a suitable location.
If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less and no properly located
“Y” branch is available, the owner shall, at his or her expense, install a “Y”
branch in the municipal sewer at the location specified by the Superintendent.
   (K)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the municipal sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of
the Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (L)   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.040)
§ 53.04 DISCHARGE STANDARDS; WHEN INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Customer compliance with rules.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
      (3)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any
municipal sewer:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
         (b)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil, or grease;
         (c)   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
         (d)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
         (e)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
rags, leathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch, manure, or any other solid of
viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage system;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance
in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
         (g)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the sewage treatment plant;
         (h)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
         (i)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc,
and similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such
material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works
exceeds the limits established by the Public Works Director for such materials;
         (j)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Director of Public Works
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (k)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
         (l)   Waters or wastes that are corrosive or that have a pH lower than
five.
      (4)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
the liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any inflammable
wastes, sand, and other harmful ingredients; except, such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and watertight.
      (5)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
      (6)   Failure by the owner to properly clean and maintain interceptors
shall be considered sufficient cause for the Director to disconnect the
industrial user from the wastewater facilities or to direct that the industrial
user discontinue discharging to the wastewater facilities or for punitive
actions as provided for in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.050)
   (B)   Discharge of waste into public sewers.
      (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain objectionable or abnormal
characteristics enumerated in division (A)(3) above and which, in the judgment
of the Public Works Director, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters otherwise create a hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Public Works Director may, with
the City Engineer:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharging
to the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   The City Council may negotiate on any upgrades that the City
Engineer recommends.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.060)
(Ord. 90-2, passed - -; Ord. 06-10, passed - -; Ord. 10-8, passed 9-9-2010)
ADMINISTRATION AND RATES
§ 53.20 APPLICATION.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any municipal sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   Any person desiring sewer service from the municipal sewer system for
premises not theretofore connected with the system shall apply to the Sewer
Superintendent for a permit. There shall be one class of building sewer permit
for residential and commercial service. The owner or his or her agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the municipality. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A
permit and inspection fee of $5 for a residential or commercial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the Municipal Finance Officer at the time the
application is filed. Upon application for such permit, the applicant shall pay
to the Municipal Finance Officer as and for an availability charge.
      (1)   Owners of commercial premises shall pay $150 for connection to the
sewage system.
      (2)   Owners of residential premises shall pay $100 for connection to the
sewage system.
   (C)   Out-of-city limit users shall pay $500 for connection to the sewage
system. Out-of-city limit users shall be subject to unsubsidized fees.
   (D)   The above connections fees may be set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.030) (Ord. 01-22, passed - -; Ord. 10-8, passed 9-9-2010)
Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.21 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The governing body of the municipality shall establish and collect
just and equitable rates, charges, and rentals for all services and benefits
furnished by the system, which shall be sufficient to pay all costs for the
operation and maintenance of the complete wastewater system. The costs shall be
distributed to all users of the system in proportion to each user’s
contribution to the total loading of the treatment works. Factors (such as
strength biochemical oxygen demand and total suspended solids (BOD and TSS),
volume, and delivery flow rate characteristics) shall be considered and
included as the basis for the user’s contribution to ensure a proportional
distribution of operation and maintenance costs to each user (or user class).
   (B)   The city or its engineer shall determine the total annual costs of
operation and maintenance of the wastewater system which are necessary to
maintain the capacity and performance, during the service life of the treatment
works, for which such works were designed and constructed. The total annual
cost of operation and maintenance shall include, but need not be limited to:
labor, repairs, equipment replacement, maintenance, necessary modifications,
power, sampling, laboratory tests, and a reasonable contingency fund.
   (C)   The city or its engineer shall determine for each user or user class
the average daily volume of wastewater discharged to the wastewater system
which shall then be divided by the average daily volume of all wastewater
discharged to the wastewater system to determine such user’s volume
contribution percentage. The amount used as the total average daily volume of
wastewater shall exclude infiltration and inflow. The city or its engineer
shall determine for each user or user class the average daily poundage of five-
day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) discharged to the wastewater system
which shall then be divided by the average daily poundage of all five-day BOD
discharged to the wastewater system to determine such user’s BOD contribution
percentage. The city or its engineer shall determine for each user or user
class the average daily total suspended solids (TSS) poundage discharged to the
wastewater system which shall then be divided by the average daily poundage of
all TSS discharged to the wastewater system to determine such user’s TSS
contribution percentage. The volume contribution percentage, BOD contribution
percentage, and TSS contribution percentage for each user or user class shall
be multiplied by the annual operation and maintenance costs for wastewater
treatment of the total volume flow; total five-day, 20°C BOD; and TSS,
respectively.
   (D)   The city or its engineer will assess a surcharge rate for all
nonresidential users discharging wastes with BOD and TSS strengths greater than
the average residential user. Such users will be assessed a surcharge
sufficient to cover the cost of treating their above-normal strength wastes.
Normal strength wastes are considered to be 300 ppm BOD and 300 ppm TSS.
   (E)   A reserve fund called the Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund is
established within the Wastewater Utility Fund for the purpose of providing
sufficient funds to be expended for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, and appurtenances during the useful life (20 years) of the
wastewater treatment facilities necessary to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such facilities are designed and constructed (see §
53.22).
   (F)   Wastewater charges shall be included with the water payment and
collected with the regular monthly water bill. In cases of nonpayment of the
rates or the surcharge within 30 days, the city shall promptly discontinue
water service to such premises. In the event of the discontinuance of any such
water service, the same shall not be resumed until payment of all past due
water and sewer charges, including penalties thereon, and a charge of $20 or
the resumption of service. Any claim for any unpaid rates, charges, or rentals
which have been properly billed may be collected in a civil action against such
owner or occupant in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (G)   The city shall review the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance as well as each user’s wastewater contribution percentage not less
often than every two years and will revise the system as necessary to assure
equity of the service charge system established herein and to assure that
sufficient funds are obtained to adequately operate and maintain the wastewater
treatment works.
      (1)   The city shall apply excess revenues collected from a class of
users to the costs of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for
the next year and adjust the rate accordingly.
      (2)   If a significant user, such as an industry, has completed in-plant
modifications which would change that user’s wastewater contribution
percentage, the user can present, at a regularly scheduled meeting of the City
Council, such factual information, and the city shall then determine if the
user’s wastewater contribution percentage is to be changed. The city shall
notify the user of its findings as soon as possible.
   (H)   Each user will be notified, at least annually, of the rate and that
portion of the user charges which are attributable to wastewater treatment
services.
   (I)   Sewer rates and unsubsidized fees will be set by resolution of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.080) (Ord. 92-3, passed - -; Ord. 01-22, passed - -; Ord.
10-8, passed 9-9-2010)
§ 53.22 WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES REPLACEMENT FUND.
   The Wastewater Treatment Facilities Replacement Fund established within the
Wastewater Utility Fund as an interest-bearing account shall be funded by a
deposit of $10,000 per year, not to exceed $30,000 in the account, obtained
from the Wastewater Utility Fund each year.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.090) (Ord. 90-2, passed - -)
§ 53.23 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   When required by the Public Works Director, the owner(s) of any
property serviced by a sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of
the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessible and safely
located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Director of Public Works. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his
or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (B)   The Director may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality; and
      (4)   Quality and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works or other duly authorized employees are
authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (D)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in this section, the Director of Public Works or duly authorized employees of
the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established
by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to
the city employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in division (A) above.
   (E)   The Director of Public Works and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater
facilities lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.070) (Ord. 90-2, passed - -)
§ 53.24 HEARING BOARD.
   A Hearing Board consisting of the City Council members shall meet as needed
for arbitration of differences between the Director of Public Works and the
sewer user on matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions
of this chapter by the Director. The cost of the arbitration will be divided
equally between the municipality and the sewer user.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.100)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. The notice requirements of this section may
be waived by the Director if, in the Director’s opinion, the violation
constitutes an imminent threat to safety or the proper operation of the
wastewater facilities.
   (B)   For any person who violates the provisions of this chapter who
continues any violation beyond the time limit provided for in the notice of
violation issued in accordance with division (A) above, such violation shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000. Each day in which such violation
shall continue shall be deemed as a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violations. If a user violates the conditions of this chapter
and continues to discharge wastewaters after receiving the notice under
division (A) above, the Director may terminate the facility’s service by
terminating water service and/or physically disconnecting the facility’s sewer
service.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.110) (Ord. 06-10, passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State Traffic Code adopted by reference
Parking Rules
   
70.15   Downtown parking
   
70.16   Diagonal parking
   
70.17   Campers, motor homes, semi-trucks, and trailers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The following chapters of the South Dakota Compiled Laws (as amended) are
adopted by the city:
SDCL Chapter 32-14 Traffic Regulations Generally
SDCL Chapter 32-15 Vehicle and Accessory Specifications
SDCL Chapter 32-17 Vehicle Lights and Brakes
SDCL Chapter 32-18 Brakes and Brake Fluid
SDCL Chapter 32-19 Wheels, Tires, and Special Vehicles
SDCL Chapter 32-22 Weight, Size, and Load Restrictions
SDCL Chapter 32-26 Rules of the Road
SDCL Chapter 32-27 Pedestrian’s Rights and Duties
SDCL Chapter 32-28 Traffic Control Devices
SDCL Chapter 32-29 Required Stops
SDCL Chapter 32-30 Stopping and Parking Restrictions
SDCL Chapter 32-31 Emergency Vehicles
SDCL Chapter 32-32 School Buses
SDCL Chapter 32-33 Apprehension and Prosecution of Violators
SDCL Chapter 32-34 Accidents and Accident Reports
 
(Prior Code, § 10.04.010)
PARKING RULES
§ 70.15 DOWNTOWN PARKING.
   (A)   Specific prohibition. Parking on Main Street by employers, employees,
and public servants is prohibited from May 15 to September 15.
   (B)   Legislative purposes and policy. The City Council adopts as a policy
of the city that effective and efficient control and regulation of parking,
granting free parking to certain classes of persons and prohibiting free
parking to other classes of persons in certain designated areas of the city for
the purposes of maintaining and increasing the wealth and prosperity of the
city, to assure and increase the comfort, safety, health, and welfare of the
city and its inhabitants as well as to enhance public convenience.
      (1)   The City Council finds that parking regulations which restrict and
limit the time which the public (excepting those persons who are owners of and
employed by private enterprise, professional persons and their employees, and
persons who are employed in city or government service by others) is
detrimental to public safety and convenience, continuing prosperity of the
city, future growth of the downtown central business district, maintenance of
current taxable valuations of downtown central business district property, and
a threat to the ability of the city to continue to provide its inhabitant with
reasonable governmental services at reasonable rates of taxation.
      (2)   Among other factors not herein recited, the city finds that limited
free parking is desirable:
         (a)   To promote public health and safety by encouraging more
available on-street parking spaces in the downtown central business district
especially during the tourist season, thereby reducing traffic in such area by
limiting vehicle traffic otherwise searching for available and convenient on-
street parking spaces;
         (b)   To promote the economic well-being of existing business
enterprises and rental properties thereby preventing, in whole or in part,
blight and lack of maintenance and care which would reduce property values with
resultant reduction in taxable valuations which would reduce the tax revenues
of the city and other taxing authorities, and detract from the city’s ability
to provide for the public safety, health, welfare, and well-being;
         (c)   Because those persons prevented from utilizing unlimited free
on-street parking have been provided reasonable provision for free alternate
parking; and
         (d)   That a viable and progressive downtown central business district
is essential to the growth and well-being of the city.
   (C)   Definition. EMPLOYERS, EMPLOYEES, AND PUBLIC SERVANTS means all
persons who own, operate, manage, or are employed by retail and wholesale
business enterprises located in the downtown central business district; all
persons who are employed by the city, state, or federal government or any other
governmental agency; all professional persons and their employees and all
persons and their employees whose offices or principal place of employment is
located in the downtown central business district; all persons who reside in
the downtown central business district; and all persons employed by an
organization, association, corporation, or other entity not herein defined
where the office or place of employment is located within the downtown central
business district. This definition includes both full-time and part-time
employees.
   (D)   Parking prohibited in certain areas. No employer, employee, or public
servant (as defined in division (C) above) shall park on Main Street from 7th
Avenue to 4th Avenue for more than 15 minutes between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 5:00 p.m. while they are on duty at a Main Street business. Subject to all
other provisions of this code, there shall be no time limit for parking in the
downtown central business district by any other persons other than an employer,
employee, or public servant as defined in this section.
   (E)   Violations; fine deposits. Any violation of this section shall be a
traffic violation subject to all of the provisions of this code and shall
subject the violator to an initial fee in such amount as is determined from
time to time by the City Council members and shall be on file in the office of
the City Finance Officer in the annual fee schedule.
   (F)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforceable by law enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.030) (Ord. 03-6, passed - -; Ord. 13-01, passed 9-5-2013)
§ 70.16 DIAGONAL PARKING.
   Diagonal parking is allowed on Main Street between 4th Avenue to 7th Avenue,
on Glenn Street between 5th Avenue and 6th Avenue, and on the south side of 6th
Avenue between Norris Street and Glenn Street as marked. Only parallel parking
will be allowed on streets located in the residential areas and side streets of
the downtown and commercial area as marked.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.035) (Ord. 10-5, passed 4-8-2010)
§ 70.17 CAMPERS, MOTOR HOMES, SEMI-TRUCKS, AND TRAILERS.
   (A)   No campers, motor homes, semi-trucks, or trailers may park overnight
on city property lots or any other city property except for in an emergency
situation.
   (B)   Campers, motor homes, semi-trucks, and trailers may be parked on city
streets for up to three days.
   (C)   Campers or motor homes on residential property may also be used to
house family members up to 14 days but shall not be used as rental property, as
storage units, or to house employees or any other occupants.
   (D)   A conditional use permit may be granted by the City Council on a case-
by-case basis.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.040) (Ord. 05-8, passed - -; Ord. 21-03, passed 8-23-2021)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Authority
   
71.03   Compliance with traffic regulations required
   
71.04   Registration
   
71.05   Operation regulations
   
71.06   Unattended vehicles
   
71.07   Equipment required
   
71.08   Use of lights required
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual control of a snowmobile.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any vehicle propelled by mechanical power that is primarily
designated to travel over ice or snow supported in whole or in part by skis,
belts, or cleats.
   STREET. Every highway and street within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.010)
§ 71.02 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding the prohibition of this subchapter, law
enforcement has the authority to supervise and regulate events or programs in
connection with the events conducted in any city park or recreation area in
which snowmobiles are used. Law enforcement shall have the authority to
designate city park areas that he or she shall deems available for use of
snowmobiles.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.030)
   (B)   Restriction. The Council may, by resolution, prohibit the operation of
snowmobiles within the right-of-way of the public roads or streets or other
city property within the city when, in its opinion, the public safety and
welfare so requires.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.060)
§ 71.03 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   Every person operating a snowmobile shall strictly observe all traffic signs
and signals and all other traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto and
shall obey the orders and directions of law enforcement of the city authorized
to direct or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.080)
§ 71.04 REGISTRATION.
   No snowmobile shall be operated within the city unless the snowmobile bears
a valid registration insignia. The registration insignia from the state,
pursuant to SDCL § 32-5-90, and conspicuously displayed upon the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.090) (Ord. 01-19, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 32-5-90
§ 71.05 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Regulations.
      (1)   No person shall operate a snowmobile within or on any city street
except under road and weather conditions to constitute emergency travel
conditions authorizing use of snowmobile or when such vehicle is necessary as
an emergency vehicle to protect the health, safety, and welfare of any
individual; provided, however, no snowmobile shall be operated within the city,
under any circumstances, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except
that a driver may drive during this restricted time when he or she is coming
into the city to his or her residence or is leaving the city to go to his or
her residence or when driving from work to his or her residence.
      (2)   No person shall operate a snowmobile on private property of another
without the permission to do so by the owner or occupant of the property.
      (3)   No person shall operate a snowmobile on public school grounds, park
property, playgrounds, recreational areas, and golf courses without the express
permission to do so by the proper authority.
      (4)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in any manner so as to create
loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise so as to disturb or interfere with the
peace and quiet of other persons.
      (5)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in a careless, reckless, or
negligent manner so as to endanger the safety of any person or property of any
other person.
      (6)   No person shall operate a snowmobile within the city without having
such snowmobile registered as provided for by this subchapter.
      (7)   No person shall operate a snowmobile on any city street as an
emergency vehicle or within the city park areas as provided herein unless the
operator shall have a valid driver’s license on his or her person.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.020)
   (B)   Operation under the influence. The operator of a snowmobile shall be
determined the driver of a motor vehicle, relating to driving while under the
influence of intoxicating liquor, drugs, or otherwise therein provided for,
punishable thereunder by any violation of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.100)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for the owner or operator of a snowmobile to leave or allow
the snowmobile to be or remain unattended on public property while the motor is
running or where the keys for starting the vehicle are left in the ignition.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.050) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   All snowmobiles operated within the city shall have the following equipment:
   (A)   Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operation of the
vehicle, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or similar device on
the vehicle;
   (B)   Adequate brakes in good working condition;
   (C)   A safety or so-called “deadman” throttle in operating condition; a
SAFETY OR DEADMAN THROTTLE is defined as a device which, when pressure is
removed from the accelerator, the throttle causes the motor to disengage from
the driving track;
   (D)   At least one operating headlight and taillight on the front and rear
of the vehicle, in conformity with state motor vehicle standards for the
lighting, as codified in SDCL § 32-20-13, of the same; and
   (E)   All snowmobiles shall exhibit a red flag or cloth not less than 12
inches square and hung or suspended five feet above ground level so that the
entire thereof is visible from all directions while on any roadway, street, or
alley.
(Prior Code, § 10.080.040)
§ 71.08 USE OF LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   A snowmobile in motion during the period of one-half hour after sunset to
one-half hour before sunrise shall display at least one lighted lamp on the
front and rear of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10.08.070)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Street cleaning route
SCHEDULE I: STREET CLEANING ROUTE.
   (A)   There are established street cleaning routes in the city upon the
following streets and portions of streets:
 
Streets     Extent
Main Street From 4th Avenue to South Boulevard
 
   (B)   These streets shall be designated by appropriate signs and shall be
cleared between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. for the purpose of street
cleaning. It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, park, or leave
unattended any motor vehicle upon these streets during these designated hours.
   (C)   Any vehicle in violation of this section shall be declared a public
nuisance and may be removed as provided in §
150.45.
(Prior Code, § 12.14.010) (Ord. 11-2, passed 2-8-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Vicious or diseased animals
   
90.03   Animals running at large
   
90.04   Barking or howling
   
90.05   Animal cruelty; prohibited animals and restrictions; impoundment
   
90.06   Authorized personnel for containment
   
90.07   Removal of animals from unoccupied premises
Licensing and Tags
   
90.20   Licensing
   
90.21   Animal tags
   
90.22   Rabies certificate and tags
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   ANIMAL or ANIMALS. Any dog or dogs.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated to be responsible for the care
and maintenance of the animal pound and who shall work with other law
enforcement officials in the enforcement of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Off or outside of the premises belonging to the owner or keeper of
such animal and not under the control of such owner, possessor, or keeper or
member of their immediate family over 12 years of age either by leash or
otherwise.
   IMPOUND. Taken to the Humane Society by law enforcement.
   LEASH. A cord, thong, or chain not more than ten feet in length by which the
person accompanying it controls the animal.
   OWNER. A person owning, keeping, or harboring an animal or the occupant of
any premises to which an animal customarily returns is presumed to be the
owner.
   PREMISES. The dwelling house and outbuildings and the lot or tract of land
on which the same are situated and shall include an automobile or other vehicle
in which the owner of the animal shall be an occupant or of which they shall
have control or in which any animal shall be situated with the consent of the
owner of the vehicle.
   QUALIFIED PERSON. Any person qualified to vaccinate animals against rabies.
   VACCINATION. The injection by a veterinarian or other qualified person of
vaccine approved by, and administered in accordance with, the provisions of
this chapter and the resolutions of the City Council.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which, according to records of the appropriate
authority, has inflicted serious injury on a human being on public or private
property; any animal that, according to records of appropriate authority, has
killed or seriously injured a domestic animal while on or off of the owner’s
property; any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting or any animal trained for fighting; any unleashed animal which chases
or approaches a person upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; any animal of a
known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack, to cause injury, or to
otherwise threaten the safety of human beings or animals.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.010) (Ord. 98-5, passed - -; Ord. 18-05, passed 6-1-2018;
Ord. 22-03, passed 8-4-2022)
§ 90.02 VICIOUS OR DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Vicious animals prohibited. It is unlawful for any person(s) to keep,
maintain, or have in his, her, or their possession or under their control
within the city any vicious animal.
   (B)   Specific canine breeds prohibited as vicious. It is unlawful for
anyone to have in his, her, or their possession or control any of the following
breeds of canines within the city:
      (1)   Wolves;
      (2)   Coyotes; and
      (3)   Any cross/mix thereof.
   (C)   Exemptions for animals that are provoked.
      (1)   It is recommended that no animal be declared vicious if the threat,
injury, or damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner or
keeper of the animal or was teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the
animal or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have teased,
tormented, abused, or assaulted the animal or was committing or attempting to
conduct a crime.
      (2)   If any dog is of a vicious disposition or has dangerous habits or
is suspected of being diseased, law enforcement shall notify the owner or
possessor of such dog orally or by posting a written private or public notice
to confine or muzzle such dog; if, thereafter, such owner or possessor fails to
comply with such notice, law enforcement are authorized, empowered, and
directed to kill or cause to be killed such animal, whether found running at
large or upon the premises of the owner of such dog, without first needing to
impound such animal.
   (D)   Impoundment and authorization to destroy. Any animal involved in an
unprovoked attack which results in serious injury to any human or another
animal shall be impounded immediately. If unable to be captured, any law
enforcement officer is authorized to destroy the animal to prevent further
endangerment to another animal or human life. Any animal impounded for an
unprovoked attack which results in injury to any animal or human shall be kept
in impoundment until it can be determined, by the City Council, what action
shall be taken. Unless permitted by the City Council, no vicious animal shall
be permitted to reside in the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.075) (Ord. 05-12, passed - -; Ord. 18-05, passed 6-1-2018;
Ord. 22-03, passed 8-4-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Licensed animal running at large.   It is unlawful for any person,
firm, or corporation to allow any animal owned, controlled, or harbored by any
person to run at large on the streets, alleys, or property of any other person
within the city limits. Any person having an animal within the city limits
shall have it tied, leashed, or otherwise controlled upon his or her property.
It is unlawful for any person to allow an animal off his or her property
without the animal being held on a leash. This practice is hereby declared a
nuisance. Upon a written complaint being filed with the Finance Office, a
letter will be delivered to or posted on the property of the owners of the
animal notifying them of the complaint. All letters shall be delivered or
posted by law enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.060)
   (B)   Unlicensed animal running at large. Any person whose animal is running
at large and has not been licensed with the city will be notified by the city
with a letter of warning, delivered or posted by law enforcement, for the first
offense and will be allotted ten days to get the animal licensed. All letters
shall be posted by law enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.065)
(Ord. 98-5, passed - -; Ord. 18-05, passed 6-1-2018; Ord. 22-03, passed 8-4-
2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 BARKING OR HOWLING.
   Animals that bark or howl excessively, during the hours of 9:00 p.m. to 6:00
p.m., within the city limits are hereby declared a nuisance. Upon a written
complaint being filed with the Finance Office, a letter of warning shall be
posted by law enforcement at the property of the offending animal. All letters
shall be posted by law enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.070) (Ord. 98-5, passed - -; Ord. 18-05, passed 6-1-2018;
Ord. 22-03, passed 8-4-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ANIMAL CRUELTY; PROHIBITED ANIMALS AND RESTRICTIONS; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It is unlawful to violate any of the following conditions in or on any
land within the corporate limits of the city.
      (1)   Cruelty to animals. No person shall cruelly or immoderately beat,
torture, or injure any animal nor underfeed, overburden, or abandon any animal.
      (2)   Fowl and other livestock. No person shall keep within the city any
ducks, geese, or other domesticated fowl (with the exception of chickens) or
any cows, goats, sheep, hogs, pigs, or other livestock except such livestock or
poultry as is kept in yards or pens of the railway company for shipping
purposes or kept in pens, houses, or yards of the stockyards, packing houses,
or butcher shops for the purpose of immediate shipment or slaughter and except
such livestock as is necessary on rodeo grounds at the time of a scheduled
rodeo for public entertainment or livestock as is necessary for roping events
or at the time an animal is scheduled to participate in a public parade.
         (a)   Chickens will be allowed with the following restrictions.
            1.   An annual permit is required.
            2.   A drawing of the location for the chicken coop will be
required on the permit.
            3.   Pens will be allowed in the backyard only.
            4.   Secured buildings and pens are required; chickens cannot run
loose.
            5.   Neighbors adjacent to the property will need to sign off on
the permit for approval.
            6.   A privacy fence may be required to accommodate neighbors.
            7.   There shall be a yearly inspection at any time without notice.
            8.   Domestic hens only, with a limitation of ten, are permissible;
roosters are prohibited.
            9.   Healthy conditions of hens must be maintained.
            10.   Cleanliness of the enclosures and pens must be maintained.
            11.   All feed and water shall be kept secure, clean, and in
adequate containers.
            12.   Regulations regarding noncompliance will result in loss of
permit.
         (b)   No person may keep or cause to be kept any place where any fowl
of any animals are suffered to fight upon exhibition or for sport upon any
wager.
      (3)   Horses. No person shall keep, within the city, any horses except
when such horse or horses shall be kept at least 75 feet from any residential
structure.
      (4)   Pigeons. No person owning or having in his or her charge, control,
or possession any pigeons shall suffer, allow, or permit the same to roam or
fly at large within the city.
      (5)   Bees. No person shall keep any bees within the city.
      (6)   Maintenance of stables and other places where animals kept. No
person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal is kept to
become unclean or unwholesome.
      (7)   Horses prohibited in parks and parkways. No person shall lead,
drive, or ride any horse upon any lawn, flower bed, sidewalk, or any other area
in any city park or upon any parkway.
   (B)   Impoundment. Any livestock or animals that are in the city illegally
shall be impounded by law enforcement. Law enforcement may destroy any sick or
injured animal which has been impounded, if its condition is such as to make
its destruction necessary or desirable.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.095) (Ord. 18-05, passed 6-1-2018; Ord. 19-01, passed 6-3-
2019; Ord. 20-03, passed 7-16-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL FOR CONTAINMENT.
   Public works employees or a city official shall be authorized to contain any
animal situation while waiting for the arrival of law enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.090) (Ord. 18-05, passed 6-1-2018)
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ANIMALS FROM UNOCCUPIED PREMISES.
   Whenever any of the premises, lots, lands, buildings, or places mentioned or
referred to in this code shall be unoccupied, and if the owner thereof is a
nonresident of the city or cannot, after due diligence, be found, the city may
authorize law enforcement to remove from such place any animals without giving
notice to owner and shall recover expenses and costs as in other cases of
nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.080) (Ord. 18-05, passed 6-1-2018)
LICENSING AND TAGS
§ 90.20 LICENSING.
   (A)   Licensing of animals. All animals kept, harbored, or maintained in the
city shall be licensed and registered if over six months of age. Animal
licenses shall be issued by the Finance Office upon receiving documentation of
the animals’ rabies vaccination being up to date and payment of a fee in an
amount to be established by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.020)
   (B)   Condition for animal license. As a condition to the issuance of an
animal license, the person making such application shall furnish a certificate
from a licensed veterinarian that the animal sought to be licensed has been
vaccinated for and made immune to rabies within the previous year.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.030)
(Ord. 98-5, passed - -; Ord. 00-1, passed - -; Ord. 18-05, passed 6-1-2018)
§ 90.21 ANIMAL TAGS.
   Upon payment of the license fee, as set by the City Council, the Finance
Office shall issue to the owner a metallic tag for each animal so licensed.
Animal tags shall not be transferable from one animal to another, and no
refunds shall be made on any animal license fee because of death of the animal
or the owner’s leaving the city before the expiration of the license period.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.040) (Ord. 98-5, passed - -; Ord. 00-1, passed - -; Ord.
18-05, passed 6-1-2018)
§ 90.22 RABIES CERTIFICATE AND TAGS.
   A copy of the animals’ rabies certificate from a licensed veterinarian or
receipt for the purchase of the rabies vaccination from a licensed veterinary
clinic will be required before a tag can be issued. Each certificate or receipt
shall bear the date, name, and address of the veterinary who issued the vaccine
used or the purchase of the vaccine.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.050) (Ord. 98-5, passed - -; Ord. 00-1, passed - -; Ord.
18-05, passed 6-1-2018)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any owner who allows a vicious animal to be in violation of the
provisions of §
90.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, if convicted, will be guilty of a
further violation each day that such condition is allowed to exist or goes
uncorrected.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.075)
   (C)   Upon receiving a second written complaint of the animal running at
large, in violation of §
90.03(A), the owner of the animal shall be fined as per division (F) below.
Third offense will be addressed the same as a second offense and fined
according to the same. Upon the fourth offense, the animal will be impounded
and not allowed back in the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.060)
   (D)   A second offense of §
90.03(B) by the owner will result in a letter and a fine as per division (F)
below and five days to comply by licensing the animal. Third offense will be
addressed the same as a second offense and fined according to the same. Upon
the fourth offense, the animal will be impounded and not allowed back in the
city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.065)
   (E)   Upon a second written complaint of the animal barking or howling
excessively, in violation of §
90.04, the owner of the animal shall be fined as per division (F) below. Third
offense will be addressed the same as a second offense and fined according to
the same. Upon the fourth offense, the animal will be impounded and not allowed
back in the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.070)
   (F)   These fines may be changed by resolution and shall apply per animal.
The following fines and penalties shall apply:
      (1)   First offense: a warning letter shall be posted by law enforcement;
      (2)   Second offense: $100;
      (3)   Third offense: $250; and
      (4)   Fourth offense: animal impounded and banned from the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.100)
(Ord. 05-12, passed - -; Ord. 18-05, passed 6-1-2018; Ord. 22-03, passed 8-4-
2022)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Adoption of Uniform Fire Code
   
91.02   Enforcement
   
91.03   Definition
   
91.04   Appeals
   
91.05   Fire limits established
   
91.06   Determination of damage or decay
   
91.07   Maintaining fire hydrants
   
91.08   Open burning regulations
   
91.09   Fireworks
Fire Prevention Regulations
   
91.20   Storage of flammable liquids and liquefied petroleum gases
   
91.21   Construction of buildings
   
91.22   Nuisances buildings within fire limits
   
91.23   Parapet firewalls
   
91.24   Wooden buildings and combustible materials
   
91.25   Stacking of inflammable materials
   
91.26   Furnaces and stoves
   
91.27   Chimneys and flues
   
91.28   Exits in public halls
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Volunteer Fire Department, see
31.35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM FIRE CODE.
   There is adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire, hazardous
materials, or explosions that certain code and standards known as the Uniform
Fire Code and standards published by Western Fire Chiefs Association and the
International Conference of Building Officials, being particularly the 1997
edition thereof, and the National Fire Codes incorporated as fully as if set
out in length in this chapter. For the date on which the ordinances codified in
the chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the city limits. Should any provisions of the Uniform Fire Code be in
conflict with the provisions of the National Fire Code, the more strict code
shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.010)
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Uniform Fire Code shall be enforced by the Fire Department under the
direction of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.020)
§ 91.03 DEFINITION.
   Whenever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the Fire Prevention Code, it shall
be held to mean the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.030)
§ 91.04 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a license or permit applied for or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant may appeal the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the
City Council within 30 days for the date of the decision of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050)
§ 91.05 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The fire limits of the city are established as follows: 150 feet on either
side of Main Street between 4th Avenue and 6th Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.010)
§ 91.06 DETERMINATION OF DAMAGE OR DECAY.
   The amount or extent of damage or decay or deterioration which may be done
to any building, when in doubt, may be determined by three disinterested
persons who are residents of the city, one of whom shall be appointed by the
Mayor and one by the owner of the building or his or her agent, and the two
thus chosen shall select a third. If the owner or his or her agent refuse to
make a selection, the City Council shall select for him or her, and the
decision of the persons thus chosen will be final and conclusive and shall be
reported to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.040)
§ 91.07 MAINTAINING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Pursuant to SDCL § 9-33-11, the city shall require all fire hydrants and
water valves be manually tested and inspected twice a year by the Public Works
Department. This must be complied with during the months of April or May and
October or November. A complete report shall be presented at the first Council
meeting following the inspection and testing periods. This report shall include
the working conditions and any repairs needed with the cost estimate included.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.200) (Ord. 09-14, passed 10-5-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-33-11
§ 91.08 OPEN BURNING REGULATIONS.
   All furnaces and smoke flues shall be kept at least 12 inches from the
woodwork. All furnaces shall be placed upon noncombustible foundations which
shall extend two feet in front of the ash pit. Floors under stoves shall be
protected by some noncombustible covering. The wood in boiler houses shall be
at least six feet from the boiler unless sufficiently protected by
noncombustible material, and all floors for boiler houses shall be of
noncombustible material and shall extend not less than eight feet from the
boiler.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.060)
§ 91.09 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall store or sell fireworks within the city limits without
having approval from the City Council and shall first obtain an active license
as a wholesaler or retailer from the state under SDCL § 34-37-2.
   (B)   There shall be no more than one active license as a wholesaler or
retailer from the state per 2,000 in population in the city limits.
   (C)   A wholesale or retail fireworks business is not allowed to be located
on Main Street between 4th Avenue and South Boulevard.
   (D)   The permit for a fireworks business located in the city limits shall
not be transferable to another fireworks business without approval to do so
from the City Council.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to discharge any
CONSUMER FIREWORKS, defined as fireworks designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion in the city limits. This does not include LOW IMPACT
FIREWORKS, defined as ground or handheld sparkling devices or novelties.
   (F)   The division (E) above does not apply to the city-sponsored fireworks
display.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.010) (Ord. 22-01, passed 4-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 34-37-2
FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
§ 91.20 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES.
   Pursuant to §§ 79.501 and 79.1001 of the Uniform Fire Code, the storage of
flammable liquids outside in above-ground tanks is prohibited, and the limits
referred to in the Uniform Fire Code in which bulk storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is restricted are established as follows: 150 feet on either and/
or both sides of Main Street between 4th Avenue and 6th Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.040)
§ 91.21 CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS.
   It is unlawful to erect or remove to any of the grounds included within the
territory designated as the fire limits of the city any building or addition to
any building not made and built with entire outside walls composed of stone,
cement, hollow tile, brick, or other noncombustible material not less than six
inches thick and roofed with slate, tin, zinc, iron, cement, asbestos,
magnesia, or other fire-proof roofing nor rebuild or repair any wooden
buildings which become damaged by fire or otherwise decayed to the extent of
50% or more of the value thereof, and no wooden building shall be repaired so
as to be raised higher or to occupy a greater space than before.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 NUISANCES BUILDINGS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   Any building or addition to a building hereafter erected or constructed
within the fire limits in violation of the terms thereof are declared to be a
public nuisance, and it shall be the duty of law enforcement to forthwith abate
the same. The cost of abating such nuisance shall be collectible from the owner
or the property and may be established as a lien on the real estate, building,
or material thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.050)
§ 91.23 PARAPET FIREWALLS.
   A parapet fire wall three feet above the conjunction of the roof line and
the sidewall shall be required for all new construction in the fire limits.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.100) (Ord. 90-9, passed - -)
§ 91.24 WOODEN BUILDINGS AND COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   Buildings within the fire limits, the outer walls of which are proposed to
be constructed in whole or in part of wood (to be covered with corrugated iron
or other metal or veneered with brick) or a wooden frame building (the walls of
which are to be covered with stucco or similar material), shall be deemed
hereunder a WOODEN BUILDING, and such outer walls of combustible materials are
prohibited within the fire limits.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.030)
§ 91.25 STACKING OF INFLAMMABLE MATERIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to deposit or stack any hay, straw, or other
inflammable material upon or within the corporate limits of this city so as to
be a fire hazard to the property of another without his or her consent which
fire hazard shall be determined by the City Council; provided, however, such
hay or straw may be stored in enclosed buildings that are provided with proper
doors or shutters and provided, further, that it is unlawful for any person or
persons to bank any building with hay, straw, manure, or other inflammable
materials unless such materials for banking be securely covered with earth
within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.090) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 FURNACES AND STOVES.
   All furnaces and smoke flues shall be kept at least 12 inches from the
woodwork. All furnaces shall be placed upon noncombustible foundations which
shall extend two feet in front of the ash pit. Floors under stoves shall be
protected by some noncombustible covering. The wood in boiler houses shall be
at least six feet from the boiler unless sufficiently protected by
noncombustible material, and all floors for boiler houses shall be of
noncombustible material and shall extend not less than eight feet from the
boiler.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.060)
§ 91.27 CHIMNEYS AND FLUES.
   The city shall examine or cause to be examined the chimneys and flues within
the city limits, and if found in unsafe condition on account of the liability
of fire to originate therefrom, he or she shall serve notice in writing upon
the owner, agent, or occupant of the building, specifying therein the chimney
or flue so found to be unsafe and the repairs or changes repaired so as to make
it safe and comfortable to the provisions of this chapter, and the owner,
agent, or occupant shall immediately place the chimney or flue in the condition
required by the notice.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.080)
§ 91.28 EXITS IN PUBLIC HALLS.
   Every public hall designated to accommodate 250 people or more shall have at
least two exits, each at least five feet wide; the doors to such exits shall
open outward, and no chairs or seats shall be allowed in the aisles when the
audience is present.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.070)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code hereby
adopted or fail to comply therewith or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement or specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken
or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the
City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
herein, shall severally (for each and every such violation and noncompliance,
respectively) be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than
$200. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time and not
otherwise specified each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Violation of §
91.09 is a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.060)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Enumerated nuisances
   
92.03   Radio and television interference
   
92.04   Exceptions
Building Nuisances
   
92.15   Maintaining building or premises nuisance prohibited
   
92.16   Variance of building maintenance to constitute nuisance
   
92.17   Abatement
Weeds
   
92.30   Noxious weeds designated
   
92.31   Regulations and maintenance
   
92.32   Expenses
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, or films for sale or viewing
on premises by use of motion picture devices or any other coin-operated means
and other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or
section devoted to the sale or display of such material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which
features topless dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar
entertainers.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building used for presenting
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
area for observation by patrons therein.
   CLEAN FILL. Any concrete, rock, gravel, sand, dirt, or clay which has not
been used as an absorbent for a regulated substance. Articles that contain
chrome, are petroleum-based (such as asphalt), are compactable, or are burnable
materials (such as, but not limited to, paper, wood, or plastic) are
prohibited.
   MANURE. Animal excreta and other materials such as bedding, straw, soil,
hair, feathers, and other debris normally included in animal waste-handling
operations.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Unlawfully doing an act or omitting to perform a duty,
which act or omission annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, or safety of others; in any way renders other persons insecure in life
or in the use of property; renders the ground, the water, the air, or food a
hazard or an injury to human health; and, in addition, the specific acts,
conditions, and things listed in §
92.02 are hereby declared to constitute public nuisances; however, such
additional enumeration is not deemed to be exclusive.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The following shall not be less than completely
and opaquely covered:
      (1)   Human genitals or pubic region;
      (2)   Buttocks;
      (3)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy; and
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast.
   STOCKPILING. In this context, it is unhealthful accumulation of a substance
which causes a noxious odor; provides for infestation of flies, mosquitoes,
rodents, or other pests; or is present in such concentration that potential
exists to cause contamination of water or soil by leaching, lateral transport,
absorption, or other movement.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.030) (Ord. 03-1, passed - -)
§ 92.02 ENUMERATED NUISANCES.
   The following are hereby declared to constitute public nuisances:
   (A)   Abandoned property. Any deteriorated, wrecked, dismantled or partially
dismantled, inoperable, and/or abandoned property in unusable condition having
no value other than nominal scrap or junk value which has been left unprotected
outside of a permanent home structure from the element. Without being so
restricted, this shall include deteriorated, wrecked, dismantled or partially
dismantled, inoperable, abandoned, and/or unlicensed motor vehicles, abandoned
mobile homes, trailers, boats, machinery, refrigerators, washing machines, and
other appliances, plumbing fixtures, furniture, building materials, and any
other similar articles in such condition. This shall not include any item which
may be reasonably recognized as an antique by dealers in those types of items;
   (B)   Unsafe structures. Structures that are unsafe, constitute a fire
hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or the public welfare shall be
taken down and removed or made safe. A vacant structure that is not secured
against entry shall be deemed unsafe;
   (C)   Breeding place for flies, rodents, and/or pests. The unhealthful
accumulation or stockpiling of manure, garbage, tires, debris, or discarded
items;
   (D)   Combustible materials. Any dangerous accumulation upon any property of
combustible refuse matter such as papers, sweepings, rags, grass, dead trees,
tree branches, wood shavings, wood, magazines, cardboard, and the like;
   (E)   Garbage and refuse. Household waste (including, but not limited to,
items such as paper, rags, trash, garbage, discarded clothing, shoes, curtains,
linen and other apparel, tin cans, aluminum cans, plastic containers, glass
containers, cleaning utensils, cooking utensils, and discarded household
fixtures) when such items are stored, collected, piled, or kept on private or
public property and in view of adjacent properties or public rights-of-way;
   (F)   Fill. Filling a gravel pit or other hydrologically- or
environmentally-sensitive area with something other than clean fill;
   (G)   Impure water. Any well or supply of water which is not in compliance
with or is in violation of sanitary sewer district regulations, state water
regulations, or state waste laws or county ordinances;
   (H)   Manure disposal. Any outspread accumulation of manure which has been
transported from the point of generation. Any manure deposited within 300 feet
of a residence without benefit of incorporation into the soil;
   (I)   Polluting river. Depositing any dead animal, decayed animal, vegetable
matter, garbage, discarded items, manure, or any slops or filth whatever,
either solid or fluid, into any water body designated or undesignated as a
source of water supply or allowing such material to be deposited or remain in
an area where runoff from such material may end up on such water body;
   (J)   Transport of materials. Deposition, permitting deposition, or
negligent deposition on any road, highway, or public right-of-way any manure,
seepage, garbage rubbish, fill, fuel, fertilizers, wastes, chemicals, or wood
while engaged in handling or removing any such substances;
   (K)   Vegetation. Weeds and grass, exclusive of crops and pasture land,
growing to a height of greater than eight inches; and
   (L)   Adult-oriented stores and premises. Adult bookstores, adult
entertainment cabarets, or adult motion picture theaters that are located
within 1,000 feet of any existing residential zone, school, church, park,
playing fields, or other areas in which large numbers of minors regularly
travel or congregate.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.050) (Ord. 03-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   Violation. It is declared a nuisance for any person to install or
maintain machines or installations of any kind which unnecessarily or avoidably
causes interference with radio and television reception within in the city.
   (B)   Abatement. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police of the city to
inspect any device or installation of any kind which may be causing
interference with radio and television reception, and whenever he or she shall
find such device or installation is unnecessarily or avoidably causing the
interference, he or she shall notify the owner or operator of same to abate
such nuisance within 30 days or less. Whenever such owner or operator of the
device or installation shall fail to abate such nuisance within the prescribed
time, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, and he or she shall have the
power to cause electrical service to the premises whereon such nuisance is
being maintained to be disconnected and discontinued until such time as
nuisance has been abated.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, it is
expressly declared that a person shall not be charged with a violation of and
no relief can be sought against the person under the provisions of this chapter
when the conduct or activity which is alleged to violate this chapter is
conduct or activity which is authorized by permit, license, authorization, or
approval issued by the United States of America or the state, county, city,
and/or any agency or department of those governmental entities.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.080) (Ord. 03-1, passed - -)
BUILDING NUISANCES
§ 92.15 MAINTAINING BUILDING OR PREMISES NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   No owner, occupant, or person in charge of any house, building, lot, or
premises in any unincorporated areas of the city shall create, maintain, or
commit or permit to be created, maintained, or committed any public nuisance,
as defined §
92.01 or as enumerated in §
92.02.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.040) (Ord. 03-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 VARIANCE OF BUILDING MAINTENANCE TO CONSTITUTE NUISANCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person owning, leasing, occupying, or having
charge or possession of any buildings or premises in the city to keep or
maintain such buildings or premises in a manner which is at variance with and
inferior to the level or maintenance of surrounding properties.
   (B)   The following condition or conditions constitute such a variance and
are declared a public nuisance:
      (1)   Buildings which are abandoned, boarded up, partially destroyed, or
partially constructed and uncompleted subsequent to the expiration of building
permit;
      (2)   Buildings with deteriorating or peeling paint that allows the
exterior building coverings to deteriorate or to permit the effects of sun and
water penetration so as to encourage decay, dry rot, warping, and cracking;
      (3)   Buildings with broken windows, doors, attic vents, and under-floor
vents;
      (4)   Overgrown vegetation which is unsightly and/or likely to harbor
rats or vermin;
      (5)   Dead, decayed, or diseased trees, weeds, and other vegetation;
      (6)   Trash, garbage, or refuse cans, bins, boxes, bags, or other such
containers permanently stored in front yards visible from public streets;
      (7)   Lumber, junk, trash, tires, debris, or salvage materials maintained
upon any other household fixtures or equipment stored so as to be visible at
ground level from any public alley, street, or adjoining premises;
      (8)   Abandoned, discarded, or unused furniture, stoves, sinks, toilets,
cabinets, or other household fixtures or equipment stored so as to be visible
at ground level from any public alley, street, or adjoining premises;
      (9)   Premises having a topography, geology, or configuration which as a
result of grading operations or improvements to the land causes erosion,
subsidence, unstable soil conditions, or surface or subsurface drainage
problems as to pose a threat to or be injurious to adjacent premises, streets,
or alleys;
      (10)   Abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative trailers, campers,
boats, and other motor vehicles which are accumulated or stored in yard areas;
      (11)   Building exteriors, walls, fences, driveways, or walkways which
are cracked, broken, defective, deteriorated, in disrepair, or defaced; and
      (12)   Any like or similar condition or conditions.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.060) (Ord. 03-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 ABATEMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to do any act or conduct any business or keep
any house, room, or building in the city for or any purpose which, by act of
the Legislative Assembly of the state or ordinance of the city, is declared to
be a nuisance, and all such nuisances may be abated by appropriate proceedings
according to law.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.020) Penalty, see §
92.99
WEEDS
§ 92.30 NOXIOUS WEEDS DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The following weeds and plants are declared to be noxious weeds and
are declared to be nuisances: ragweed, thistles, wild sunflower, goldenrod,
cockleburr, sandburr, wild oats, wild mustard, wild lettuce, wild salsify, pig
weed, wild firebush, and all other useless weeds suffered or allowed to grow
during the growing season.
   (B)   The following weeds are declared to be noxious statewide:
      (1)   Absinth wormwood;
      (2)   Canada thistle;
      (3)   Hoary cress;
      (4)   Leafy spurge;
      (5)   Perennial sow thistle;
      (6)   Purple loosestrife; and
      (7)   Salt Cedar.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.31 REGULATIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the duty of the occupant, person in charge, or the owner of any
lot or parcel of land in the city to keep such weeds and plants mentioned in §
92.30 cut at such times as necessary to prohibit the growth and bearing seed of
such weeds or plants. The Chief of Police or other person in charge of streets
and alleys in the city shall, in like manner, destroy all such weeds being and
growing in the streets and alleys of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.020)
§ 92.32 EXPENSES.
   If the owner, occupant, or person in charge of any lot or lots shall fail or
neglect to destroy any such weeds or noxious vegetation, as aforesaid, growing
upon any such lot or lots, the Chief of Police or some other person under his
or her direction shall, within ten days after notice to the owner, occupant, or
person in charge, cause the work to be done and report the expense to City
Council for collection of the same from owner, occupant, or person in charge or
by special assessment against the property benefitted.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.030)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who maintains, commits, or fails to abate a public
nuisance (as required under the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.04 and
92.15 through
92.17) shall be subject to a maximum penalty of 30 days in jail or a $200 fine
or both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   In addition, the city may also use the remedies of civil action and
abatement as set forth in SDCL §§ 21-10-5 through 21-10-9.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.070) (Ord. 03-1, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 21-10-5 through 21-10-9
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Storing, parking, or leaving dismantled or other such motor vehicles
   
93.03   Removal of vehicles on public property; notice
   
93.04   Vehicles on private property; notice
   
93.05   Racing or antique vehicles
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is left unattended on any
public street or alley, in any public parking lot, or in any other public place
for more than 24 consecutive hours.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed
thereto unexpired license plates or which is wrecked, dismantled, partially
dismantled, inoperable, or discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle including, but not limited to,
automobiles, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf
carts, and campers.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.010) (Ord. 85-6, passed - -)
§ 93.02 STORING, PARKING, OR LEAVING DISMANTLED OR OTHER SUCH MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Storing, parking, or leaving dismantled or other such motor vehicles
declared nuisance.
      (1)   The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative,
junked, or partially dismantled motor vehicle or parts thereof on private or
public property is declared a public nuisance.
      (2)   Division (A)(1) above shall not apply to any motor vehicle enclosed
within a building on private property or completely screened from public view.
      (3)   Division (A)(1) above shall not apply to junk motor vehicles of
four or less in number on commercially-zoned property.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.020)
   (B)   Storing, parking, or leaving dismantled or other such motor vehicle on
public property prohibited. No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the
parking, storing, or leaving of any abandoned or junk motor vehicle of any
kind, whether attended or not, upon any public property within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.030)
(Ord. 86-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; NOTICE.
   (A)   Removal. Whenever any police officer finds an abandoned motor vehicle
or junk motor vehicle on public property, he or she shall place written notice
on the vehicle that it will be removed to a garage or place of safety unless
the owner removes the vehicle from public property within 24 hours of the
giving of the notice. After the expiration of the 24-hour period, the vehicle
may be removed by the removal agency to a garage or place of safety. Nothing
herein precludes the Police Department from immediately removing a motor
vehicle which causes an obstruction or hazard to traffic.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.040)
   (B)   Notice to owner. It shall be the duty of the Police Department to
notify, by certified mail, the registered owner and, if encumbered, the
lienholder of the removal, storage, and present location of any motor vehicle
removed under the provisions of this chapter and that the vehicle can be
recovered by payment of costs and fines incident to its removal and storage.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.050)
(Ord. 86-6, passed - -)
§ 93.04 VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; NOTICE.
   (A)   Duty of private property owners. No person owning, in charge of, or in
control of any real property within the city (whether as owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee, or otherwise) shall allow any abandoned or junk motor vehicle
of any kind to remain on such property longer than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.060)
   (B)   Notice to remove. Whenever it comes to the attention of the Police
Department that any person has an abandoned or junk motor vehicle on his or her
property, a notice in writing shall be served by certified mail upon such
person ordering the removal of such motor vehicle in the time specified in this
chapter. The notice shall contain the request for removal within 30 days after
the mailing of such notice, and the notice shall advise that failure to comply
with the notice to remove shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.070)
(Ord. 86-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 RACING OR ANTIQUE VEHICLES.
   No owner or occupant of private property shall have an uncovered motor
vehicle in operable condition specifically adopted or designed for operation on
drag strips or raceways or an uncovered motor vehicle retained on private
property for antique collection purposes, all as defined by §
93.02(A)
(Prior Code, § 8.04.080) (Ord. 86-6, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $100.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.090) (Ord. 86-6, passed - -)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Campground size
Parks
   
94.15   Park supervisors
   
94.16   Authority of police
   
94.17   Protection of park property
   
94.18   Protection of trees and shrubbery
   
94.19   Prohibited conduct in parks
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 CAMPGROUND SIZE.
   Campgrounds must have a minimum of 30 spaces. The spaces must be 1,225
square feet.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.010) (Ord. 03-8, passed - -)
PARKS
§ 94.15 PARK SUPERVISORS.
   The Mayor and the Alderpersons of the city are constituted the Parks
Department for the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.010)
§ 94.16 AUTHORITY OF POLICE.
   The authority of the Chief of Police and other police officers of the city
shall extend to and cover any property described as a public park, and the
police officers shall have the same jurisdiction to enforce the ordinances of
the city within the park or within one mile of the outer boundary of the park
for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of
the community and of enforcing the ordinances and resolutions of the city
relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.040)
§ 94.17 PROTECTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall deface, mar, injure, break into, or, in any way,
interfere with any house, building, or other property situated in any park
belonging to the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.18 PROTECTION OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   Any person who shall climb any tree, cut, break, pluck, root up, or in any
way disturb any trees, flowers, shrubs, plants, or bulbs planted or growing in
any public park or other public ground of the city shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.19 PROHIBITED CONDUCT IN PARKS.
   (A)   Rubbish. It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit or cause to
be thrown or deposited any paper, tin cans, rubbish, or offal of any kind in
any such park or in or about any place set apart for swimming or body of water
or stream within or adjoining any park under the control of the Parks
Department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.050)
   (B)   Animals or vehicles. It is unlawful for any person to lead or drive
any horses or other animals or any vehicle or motor vehicle over or upon any of
the grass plots or planting space of any public park except at such places as
may be provided for the parking of vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.060)
   (C)   Selling merchandise. It is unlawful for any person to do any peddling
or to sell or offer for sale any goods, wares, or merchandise in any of the
public parks of the city unless such person has been granted permission for
such purpose by the Parks Department.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.070)
   (D)   Disorderly conduct. It is unlawful for any person to be guilty of
disorderly, unchaste, or lewd conduct or habitual loafing or sleeping on the
ground or benches or to engage in any quarrel or fight or make or assist in
making any disorderly noise or riot or disturbance of the peace within the
limits of any park under the control of the Parks Department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.080)
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES GENERALLY
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   ALCOHOL
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES GENERALLY
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Term of license
   
110.03   Permanent structure required for sale of merchandise
   
110.04   Sale of merchandise upon public property
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful within the city to engage in, pursue, or transact any
business, trade, calling, profession, occupation, or avocation or to do any act
or carry on any business within a residential area without first obtaining a
conditional use permit (CUP). Any person required to obtain a license under
this chapter shall submit an application to the City Finance Officer.
   (B)   Uses permitted with requirements are:
      (1)   Daycares within a home; required to provide the following:
         (a)   Signatures from 80% of the neighboring properties within 100
feet of the property line;
         (b)   A copy of a state sales tax license; and
         (c)   A copy of any required state license to operate such business.
      (2)   Hair salons within a home; required to submit the following:
         (a)   Signatures from 80% of the neighboring properties within 100
feet of the property line;
         (b)   A copy of a state sales tax license; and
         (c)   A copy of any required state license to operate such business.
      (3)   Short-term rental or Airbnb; required to provide the following:
         (a)   Signatures from 80% of the neighboring properties within 100
feet of the property line;
         (b)   A copy of a state sales tax license;
         (c)   Licensed with the Department of Health;
         (d)   A copy of any required state license to operate such business;
and
         (e)   Required to carry a $1,000,000 liability insurance policy.
      (4)   Any business that revenue is collected for services:
         (a)   Signatures from 90% of the neighboring properties within 100
feet of the property line;
         (b)   A copy of a state sales tax license; and
         (c)   A copy of any required state license to operate such business.
   (C)   The application shall go before the City Council at its next regular
meeting; if such application is granted by the City Council, a record shall be
made in the minutes. However, the City Council shall use discretion in the
granting of licenses and may refuse to do so; in which case, the license fee
received by the Finance Officer shall be returned. The fact that an applicant
may have the City Finance Officer’s receipt for the license fee shall not be
sufficient to authorize him or her to operate until a license is approved by
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.010) (Ord. 01-16, passed - -; Ord. 18-04, passed 7-9-2018;
Ord. 22-04, passed 11-3-2022)
§ 110.02 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise specified, any license issued pursuant hereto shall be for
a term of three years unless complaints are received prior to the end of term.
Upon review by the City Council, said license may be revoked before the end of
term. Fees for each permit shall be set by a resolution and may be changed by a
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.020) (Ord. 18-04, passed 7-9-2018; Ord. 22-04, passed 11-3-
2022)
§ 110.03 PERMANENT STRUCTURE REQUIRED FOR SALE OF MERCHANDISE.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any goods, wares,
merchandise, books, pictures, novelties, souvenirs, trinkets, or other articles
of commerce or trade to any person except within a permanent structure or as
part of a business conducted within a permanent structure located immediately
adjacent to the place of such sale or offer for sale.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.010) (Ord. 86-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 SALE OF MERCHANDISE UPON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person other than the city, its agents and employees,
or a lessor acting under authority of the city to sell or offer for sale any
goods, wares, merchandise, books, pictures, novelties, souvenirs, trinkets, or
other articles of commerce or trade to any person upon any street, sidewalk,
park, parking area, or other property owned or leased by the city. This section
shall not apply to the drayage or delivery of any item previously sold or
ordered by the purchaser or person to whom delivered. The prohibitions of the
section shall not apply during any municipal celebrations, fairs, appreciation
days, or similar community events approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.020) (Ord. 86-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Declared nuisance
   
111.02   Definition
   
111.03   License application
   
111.04   Fee
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DECLARED NUISANCE.
   The practice of being in and upon private residences and business places in
the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, transient merchants, and transient
vendors of merchandise not having been requested or invited to do so by the
owner or owners, occupant or occupants of the private residences, and business
places for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares, and
merchandise or for the purpose of disposing of or peddling or hawking the same
is declared to be a nuisance and punishable as prescribed in this chapter. The
Chief of Police is required and directed to suppress the same and to abate any
such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.010)
§ 111.02 DEFINITION.
   (A)   A TRANSIENT MERCHANT is defined as any person, firm, or corporation
(whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee) who engages in a temporary
business of selling from a display of goods, wares, or merchandise within the
city and who occupies temporarily any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent,
railroad box-car, or any street, alley, lot, or other place within the city for
the exhibition and sale from such display of goods, wares, or merchandise. Sale
must be made from stock of goods displayed, and no orders may be taken for
future delivery.
   (B)   A TRANSIENT MERCHANT, for the purposes of this chapter, shall not
include the following:
      (1)   Fundraising activities of nonprofit organizations or groups who are
exempt from the State Gross Retail Tax;
      (2)   A person selling goods, wares, or merchandise of any description
raised, produced, or manufactured by the individual offering the same for sale
at a garage sale, flea market, bake sale, or craft show;
      (3)   A person selling at an art fair or festival or similar event at the
invitation of the event’s sponsor if all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The sponsor is a governmental entity or a nonprofit and/or tax
exempt organization;
         (b)   The person provides the sponsor with the person’s sales tax
license number; and
         (c)   The sponsor provides a list of the event’s vendors and their
sales tax license numbers to the State Department of Revenue.
      (4)   Other activities are at the discretion of the Mayor, Finance
Officer, and two other Council members.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.020) (Ord. 07-2, passed - -; Ord. 09-12, passed 9-3-2009)
§ 111.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in business in
the city as a transient merchant, as defined in §
111.02, without first having obtained a license therefor in compliance with the
provisions herein. Application shall be made to the Council at a meeting.
Application shall be accompanied with a valid state sales tax license.
Applicants shall publish, at their expense, in the local newspaper a
notification of the day they will be selling their product for the community’s
awareness.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.030) (Ord. 09-12, passed 9-3-2009; Ord. 11-13, passed 12-8-
2011) Penalty, see §
111.99 
§ 111.04 FEE.
   Upon approval of the application, a fee of $15 (per day, per vendor, and per
table) minimum shall be required. The fee may be changed by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.040) (Ord. 09-20, passed 1-7-2010)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine, for any person, firm, or
corporation to engage in any of the activities subject to this chapter without
having first obtained a license in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. The first offense shall be a $50 fine, second offense shall be $100
fine, each additional offense shall increase by increments of $50.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.050) (Ord. 07-02, passed - -)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOL
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Age of servers
   
112.03   Prohibited conduct
Licenses and Permits
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   License classes, limitations, and fees
   
112.17   Issuance of license
   
112.18   Special event licenses
   
112.19   Open container permits
   
112.20   Permit to distribute alcohol on public property
   
112.21   Beer garden permit
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverage, as
defined herein.
   BAR. Any permanently-installed counter within the restaurant area from which
alcoholic beverages are regularly served to customers by a person who is
tending bar or drawing or mixing alcoholic beverages.
   BULK CONTAINER. Any package or any container, within which container are one
or more packages.
   FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT. Any restaurant at which a waiter or waitress
delivers food and drink offered from a printed food menu to patrons at tables,
booths, or the bar. Any restaurant that only serves fry orders or foodstuffs
such as sandwiches, hamburgers, or salads is not a FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT.
   MALT BEVERAGE. A beverage made by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion
or decoction or combination of both in potable brewing water of malted barley
with hops or their parts or their products and with or without other malted
cereals and with or without the addition of unmalted or prepared cereals, other
carbohydrates, or products prepared therefrom and with or without the addition
of carbon dioxide and with or without other wholesome products suitable for
human consumption containing not less 0.5% by alcohol weight.
   OFF-SALE. The sale of any alcoholic beverage for consumption off the
premises where sold.
   ON-SALE. The sale of any alcoholic beverage for consumption only upon the
premises where sold.
   ON-SALE DEALER. Any person who sells or keeps for sale any alcoholic
beverage for consumption on the premises where sold.
   PACKAGE. The bottle or immediate container of any alcoholic beverage.
   PACKAGE DEALER. Any person other than a distiller, manufacturer, or
wholesaler who sells or keeps for sale any alcoholic beverage for consumption
off the premises where sold.
   RESTAURANT. Any area in a building maintained, advertised, and held out to
the public as a place where individually-priced meals are prepared and served
primarily for consumption in such area and where at least 60% of the gross
revenue of the RESTAURANT is derived from the sale of food and nonalcoholic
beverages. The RESTAURANT shall have a dining room or rooms, a kitchen, and the
number and kinds of employees necessary for the preparing, cooking, and serving
of meals.
   RETAIL LICENSE. An on- or off-sale license issued under the provisions of
this chapter.
   RETAILER or RETAIL DEALER. Any person who sells alcohol for other than
resale.
   SALE. The transfer, for a consideration, of title to any alcoholic beverage.
   WINE. Any liquid either commonly used or reasonably adapted to use for
beverage purposes and obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content
of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar and containing not
more than 24% of alcohol by weight.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.010) (Ord. 01-16, passed - -)
§ 112.02 AGE OF SERVERS.
   (A)   Ages for selling and/or serving on-sale malt beverage and liquor shall
be pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-79.
   (B)   Ages for selling off-sale malt beverage and package liquor shall be
pursuant to SDCL §§ 35-4-79 and 35-4-79.4.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.055) (Ord. 16-03, passed 5-4-2016; Ord. 18-06, passed 6-1-
2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 35-4-79 and 35-4-79.4
§ 112.03 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   Off-sale dealers. All holders of off-sale licenses under this chapter
shall be prohibited from each of the following acts.
      (1)   No off-sale licensee shall sell or make any delivery of alcoholic
beverages outside of the premises described in his or her license.
      (2)   An off-sale licensee shall be allowed to sell alcoholic beverages
seven days a week and 365 days a year except between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
7:00 a.m.
      (3)   No off-sale dealer shall sell any alcoholic beverage to any person
under the age of 21 years.
      (4)   No off-sale dealer shall sell any alcoholic beverage to any person
who is intoxicated at the time or who is known to the seller to be a habitual
drunkard.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.060)
   (B)   On-sale dealers. All holders of on-sale licenses under this chapter
shall be prohibited from each of the following acts.
      (1)   No on-sale dealer may sell, serve, or allow to be consumed any
alcoholic beverages except on the premises authorized by his or her license.
      (2)   An on-sale licensee shall be allowed to sell alcoholic beverages
seven days a week and 365 days a year except between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and
7:00 a.m.
      (3)   No off-sale dealer shall sell any alcoholic beverage to any person
under the age of 21 years.
      (4)   No on-sale dealer shall sell any alcoholic beverage to any person
who is intoxicated at the time or who is known to the seller to be a habitual
drunkard.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.070)
   (C)   Prohibited public conduct. No person shall, within the limits of the
city, engage in any of the following acts.
      (1)   No person shall buy from any on-sale dealer or licensee any
intoxicating liquor in a package, whether sealed or unsealed or whether
partially or completely full.
      (2)   No person shall engage in the sale of any alcoholic beverage who
has not first obtained a license as required under this chapter.
      (3)   No person shall use or consume alcoholic beverage in any public
place or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or upon private property without the
permission of the owner thereof except upon premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages.
      (4)   No person shall have an unsealed package containing any alcoholic
beverage in his or her possession in any public place or upon any street,
alley, or sidewalk; provided, however, an on-sale dealer or licensee may have
on his or her premises unsealed packages with the required stamps affixed
thereto.
      (5)   No person shall become intoxicated in any public place.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.080)
(Ord. 10-17, passed 12-30-2010; Ord. 16-03, passed 5-4-2016; Ord. 18-06, passed
6-1-2018) Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, unless he or she has first obtained a license as provided by this
chapter, shall transact the business authorized by this chapter to be conducted
by such licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.020) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 LICENSE CLASSES, LIMITATIONS, AND FEES.
   The city shall offer the following licenses that are provided in SDCL
Chapter 35-4, and the fees shall be set as follows and may be changed by
resolution:
   (A)   Package (off-sale liquor) license:
      (1)   Initial fee for this license shall be set by the City Council but
may not be less than $500; and
      (2)   Renewal fee for this license is $500 per year.
   (B)   Retail (on-off) sale malt beverage and state farm wine license:
      (1)   Initial fee for this license is $300; and
      (2)   Renewal fee for this license is $300 per year.
   (C)   Retail (on-off) sale wine and cider license:
      (1)   Initial fee for this license is $500; and
      (2)   Renewal fee for this license is $500 per year.
   (D)   Retail (on-sale) liquor license:
      (1)   Initial fee for this license is $1,400; and
      (2)   Renewal fee for this license is $1,400 per year.
   (E)   Retail (on-sale) full-service restaurant license:
      (1)   Fee shall be set by the City Council by resolution and may not be
less than $1 for each person residing within the city as measured by the last
preceding federal census;
      (2)   Renewal fee for this license is $300 per year;
      (3)   Applicants shall provide documentation to the Finance Officer that
the applicant meets all requirements of state law;
      (4)   In its initial application, an applicant for this license must
provide documentation to the Finance Officer to provide that the primary source
of revenue of the restaurant will be derived from the sale of prepared food and
nonalcoholic beverages and not from the sale of alcoholic beverage. This
supporting documentation is confidential; and
      (5)   Before this license will be renewed, the licensee must submit a
report to the Finance Officer verifying under oath that at least 60% of gross
operating revenue generated over the preceding 12-month period was derived from
the sale of food and nonalcoholic beverages. The report shall contain the
annual gross revenue of food and nonalcoholic beverages and total gross
revenues. This report will be confidential.
   (F)   Any business that holds a liquor license issued by the city will be
required to carry $1,000,000 liability insurance.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.040) (Ord. 18-06, passed 6-1-2018; Ord. 20-02, passed 5-21-
2020; Ord. 22-04, passed 11-3-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL Chapter 35-4
§ 112.17 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Any business that applies and is approved for an RB license but does not
serve food in the business as of June 1, 2018, will be restricted from the on-
sale portion of the license. These businesses may, however, provide free
samples as pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-10.2.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.050) (Ord. 14-08, passed 11-6-2014; Ord. 18-06, passed 6-1-
2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 35-4-10.2
§ 112.18 SPECIAL EVENT LICENSES.
   (A)   A special liquor license issued for the sale of alcoholic beverages
within the Community Center shall be issued only to a business that holds a
liquor license issued by the city. A fee of $25 per event with an additional
fee of $10 if serving after midnight. These fees may be amended by resolution.
   (B)   If the businesses holding a liquor license issued by the city are
unable to accommodate the date chosen by the persons holding the special event,
a business with a license issued from another city shall be allowed to apply
for the special liquor license. This will be verified by the Finance Officer.
   (C)   A business outside the city will pay a fee of $100 per event with an
additional fee of $25 if serving after midnight. These fees may be amended by
resolution.
   (D)   Any business applying for the special liquor license will be required
to carry $1,000,000 liability insurance.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.101) (Ord. 08-5, passed - -; Ord. 18-06, passed 6-1-2018)
§ 112.19 OPEN CONTAINER PERMITS.
   The city may issue an open container permit for malt beverages to be served
and consumed (but not sold) on city property. A certificate of liability
insurance carrying no less than $1,000,000 from the person applying for the
permit will be required before the permit is issued. The fee for the permit
will be $5. This fee may be changed by resolution. This permit must be approved
by the City Finance Officer and the Mayor or the Assistant Finance Officer, in
absence of the Finance Officer, no less than 24 hours before the event. If a
permit has not been approved and/or received, a fine of $250 shall be applied.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.105) (Ord. 09-10, passed 9-3-2009; Ord. 18-06, passed 6-1-
2018)
§ 112.20 PERMIT TO DISTRIBUTE ALCOHOL ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to sell, serve, or otherwise
distribute alcoholic beverages on public property without first having applied
for and having received a permit issued by the city. The application shall
include the exact location of the premises, the area of the premises, and how
access to the area will be controlled. The area of the Community Center to
which alcoholic beverages may be distributed must be at least ten feet from the
front entrance to the Grand Hall and at least 65 feet from the stage area. It
may also be distributed from the serving window of the kitchen. If a permit has
not been approved and/or received for selling, serving, or otherwise
distributing of alcoholic beverages, a fine of $250 shall be applied.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.100) (Ord. 95-5, passed - -; Ord. 09-10, passed 9-3-2009)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 BEER GARDEN PERMIT.
   A beer garden permit shall be issued for a specified area only. Any owner of
a current alcoholic beverage license may apply for a “no fee” beer garden
permit. Said permit shall be applied for and approved at a regular meeting. If
the licensee requests a special meeting to approve a permit. This permit shall
be renewed annually with the renewal of their alcohol license. This permit
shall be approved by the City Council only. It can also be refused for any just
cause by the City Council. Once the permit has been issued, the Council has the
authority to dissolve the permit before the expiration date if they so choose
without giving any advance notice.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.110) (Ord. 08-11, passed - -; Ord. 11-4, passed 5-5-2011;
Ord. 18-06, passed 6-1-2018)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
112.03(A) or (B) will be a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5.08.080) (Ord. 10-17, passed 12-30-2010; Ord. 16-03, passed 5-
4-2016; Ord. 18-06, passed 6-1-2018)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Video lottery machine establishments
   
113.02   Tattoo and body piercing regulations
   
113.03   Regulation of gentleman’s clubs
Public Dance Halls
   
113.15   Definition
   
113.16   License required
   
113.17   License application; fees
   
113.18   Hours
   
113.19   Supervision
   
113.20   Lighting grounds
Shows
   
113.35   Definition
   
113.36   License required
   
113.37   License application; fees
   
113.38   Location
Amateur Boxing, Kickboxing, and Mixed Martial Arts Events
   
113.50   Definitions
   
113.51   Permit requirements
   
113.52   Permit fees
   
113.53   Permit reviews
   
113.54   Display of permit and match list
   
113.55   Approval of sanctioning bodies
   
113.56   Regulations of matches and exhibitions
   
113.57   Revocation
   
113.58   Reapplication
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 VIDEO LOTTERY MACHINE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   As provided in SDCL § 42-7A-64, not more than one authorized establishment
for video lottery machines will be granted for each 500 population in the city,
as determined by the City Finance Officer, each January 1. No establishment
authorized for a video lottery machine between March 1, 1994, and December 31,
2015, may be denied authorization solely by reason of any limitations of the
number of authorizations under the provisions of this section. The quotas
established for video lottery in this section do not apply to other liquor
licenses not restricted by the state for video lottery.
(Prior Code, § 5.24.030) (Ord. 15-06, passed 9-17-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 42-7A-64
§ 113.02 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING REGULATIONS.
   Pursuant to SDLC § 9-34-17, the City Council desires to regulate the
practice, licensing, and sanitation standards for tattoo and body piercing
businesses. Chapter 44:12:01(1-35) of the State Administrative Rules is the
Department of Health regulations for tattoo businesses and Chapter 44:12:02(1-
32) is the regulations for body piercing businesses. The City Council desires
to protect the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens; therefore, the city
adopts Chapters 44:12:01(1-35) and 44:12:02(1-32) of the State Administrative
Rules to regulate tattoo and body piercing businesses.
(Prior Code, § 5.28.010) (Ord. 09-5, passed 5-7-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, SDLC § 9-34-17
§ 113.03 REGULATION OF GENTLEMAN’S CLUBS.
   SDLC §§ 11-12-1 through 11-12-6 are the state statutes for adult-oriented
business. The City Council is empowered to enact such laws pursuant to the laws
and statutes of the state. The City Council desires to protect the citizens and
preserve the property values and character of surrounding neighborhoods;
therefore, the city adopts SDLC §§ 11-12-1 through 11-12-6 as their ordinance
to regulate gentleman’s clubs.
(Prior Code, § 5.32.010) (Ord. 09-6, passed 5-7-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDLC §§ 11-12-1 through 11-12-6
PUBLIC DANCE HALLS
§ 113.15 DEFINITION.
   A PUBLIC DANCE HALL, as the term is used in this chapter, means any
building, place, or space open to public patronage in which dancing wherein the
public may participate, is carried on and to which admission may be had by the
public, by payment either directly or indirectly, of an admission fee or price
for dancing for the personal gain or profit of the person, firm, or corporation
conducting, maintaining, or operating such public dance hall.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.020)
§ 113.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation to conduct,
operate, or maintain a public dance hall within the city without first
obtaining a license from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17 LICENSE APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   License applications. Any person or persons, firm, or corporation
desiring to conduct, maintain, or operate any public dance hall within the city
shall make application to the City Council for permission therefor, which
application shall state location of the room, place, hall, or building; the
name of the person or persons intending to operate the same; if a corporation,
the names of the president, secretary, and treasurer thereof; and, if by a
partnership, the names of the persons constituting same. Such application shall
state the length of time of which license is applied. If the application shall
be considered favorably, the City Finance Officer shall issue a license to such
applicant upon payment of license fee hereafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.030)
   (B)   Fee. The license fee to be paid for such a license shall be $25 per
year.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.040)
§ 113.18 HOURS.
   It is unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation owning,
controlling, or operating a public dance hall within the city to permit or
allow the same to be open or dances participated therein between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day of the week including Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.070) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.19 SUPERVISION.
   (A)   Such dance halls shall be open at all times, when dances are being
held, to the police officers of the city, and such police officers shall enter
such dance hall at any time and remove any person found to be in an
intoxicating condition or violating any laws of the state or any ordinance of
the city.
   (B)   The City Council, if it deems necessary, may require the employment of
a matron or special officer to supervise dances conducted in a public dance
hall, such matron or officer to be appointed by the City Council at a fixed
compensation to be paid by the person or persons, firm, or corporation
operating such dance hall.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.080) (Ord. 01-16, passed - -)
§ 113.20 LIGHTING GROUNDS.
   It shall be the duty of the person or persons, firm, or corporation or
manager in charge of such public dance hall within the city to provide adequate
illumination for the purpose of lighting all of the adjoining grounds used by
the participants in connection with such public dance hall, and all of the
grounds adjoining the public dance hall and used in connection therewith shall
be lighted during the entire time that such public dance hall shall be used for
dancing at night.
(Prior Code, § 5.16.060) Penalty, see §
113.99
SHOWS
§ 113.35 DEFINITION.
   The term SHOW, as used in this chapter, means and includes a circus, wild
west show, menagerie, caravan of animals, field games, public shows,
performance, entertainment, exhibition, or carnival amusement of any kind or
description or type of show or any combination of such conducted, carried on,
exhibited, or produced in the open air or under a tent or in any place not
licensed as a theater or amusement hall or place, admission to which pay or
compensation of any kind shall be required, demanded, or received or which is
given or conducted for gain; provided, however, SHOW shall not mean and include
entertainment given by any public or private school; lectures on historical,
literary, or scientific subjects; amateur field games or contest; or fairs,
concerts, exhibitions, or paintings or statuary given or made by the residents
of the city for the exclusive benefit of any benevolent, religious, or
charitable object in such city.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.010)
§ 113.36 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any show, as described in this subchapter, to exhibit
within the corporate limits of the city without first having obtained and paid
for a license. The City Council may waive the license fee if the show is
sponsored by any local charitable, patriotic, or fraternal or civic
organization even though the show is not under the exclusive classification set
out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.030) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.37 LICENSE APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   License application. A license application blank may be obtained from
the Chief of Police. Such application must contain a description of the place
where the show is to be held, kind of entertainment, date show is to be held,
and the name and address of applicant.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.040)
   (B)   Fee. The license fee shall be $10 per day.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.050)
§ 113.38 LOCATION.
   It is unlawful for any show to be located on any of the three blocks on Main
Street from 4th Avenue to 6th Avenue. It is unlawful for a show to be located
on any lot or lots, or on street or railroad rights-of-way without the show
being able to produce a petition signed by all residents within a block of that
proposed location stating that the location of the show at the proposed site is
satisfactory. Upon application, the City Council may waive this section.
(Prior Code, § 5.20.020) (Ord. 01-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
113.99
AMATEUR BOXING, KICKBOXING, AND MIXED MARTIAL ARTS EVENTS
§ 113.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMISSION FEE. Any amount charged or minimum amount required to be expended
in exchange for entrance to the premises where an amateur boxing, kickboxing,
or mixed martial arts event is being held. ADMISSION FEE shall not include
membership fees charged by health clubs, fitness facilities, gymnasiums, or
fees charged for professional instruction in the sports of boxing, kickboxing,
and the mixed martial arts.
   AMATEUR. A person who has never received nor competed for any purse or other
article of value with the exception of those trophies, ribbons, medals, or
belts that are consistent within the style of competition, either for the
expenses of training or for participating in a match, regardless of the amount.
   BOXING. The act, activity, or sport of fighting with the fists, especially
according to rules requiring the use of boxing gloves and limiting legal blows
to those striking above the waist and on the front or sides of the opponent.
   CITY COUNCIL. The six elected officials and the Mayor for the city.
   CONTESTANT. Any person who competes in any boxing, kickboxing, or mixed
martial arts match or exhibition.
   EXHIBITION. A boxing, kickboxing, or mixed martial arts engagement in which
the participants show or display their skills without necessarily striving to
win.
   FIGHT NIGHTS. Activities occurring in bars, clubs, and other establishments
that encourage or permit untrained, unskilled persons to engage in boxing,
kickboxing, or mixed martial arts and other combinations of punching and
kicking as a form of entertainment.
   JUJITSU. Defending oneself without the use of weapons by using throws,
holds, blows, strength, and weight to disable one’s attacker.
   KICKBOXING. To compete with the fists, feet, legs, or any combination
thereof. KICKBOXING is a standing sport and does not allow continuation of the
fight once a combatant has reached the ground.
   LICENSED PHYSICIAN. A medical doctor (M.D.) or doctor of osteopathy (D.O.)
licensed to practice medicine in the State of South Dakota.
   MATCH. A contest, bout, or competition that involves the sports of boxing,
kickboxing, or mixed martial arts in which the participants strive earnestly to
win.
   MIXED MARTIAL ARTS. Unarmed combat involving the use of a combination of
techniques from different disciplines of the martial arts including, but not
limited to, grappling, kicking, and striking. “Tough man,” “ultimate fighting,”
“extreme fighting,” “cage fighting,” or any similar competition will be
considered MIXED MARTIAL ARTS for the purpose of this subchapter.
   PROMOTER. Any person, firm, or organization responsible for coordinating the
match or exhibition.
   SANCTIONING BODY. An organization approved by the City Council or designee
as a body authorized to sanction boxing, kickboxing, or mixed martial arts
matches or exhibitions in the city.
   WRESTLING. The sport which unarmed contestants fight each other according to
various rules governing holds and usually forbidding blows with closed fists.
The object is to use hand-to-hand struggle to overcome the opponent either by
throwing or pinning him or her to the ground or by causing him or her to
submit.
(Prior Code, § 9.25.010) (Ord. 11-3, passed 5-5-2011)
§ 113.51 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person, corporation, organization, or other entity shall manage, hold,
conduct, permit, or otherwise maintain any amateur boxing, kickboxing, or mixed
martial arts match or exhibition within the city limits or within three miles
of the city limits without first obtaining a permit, paying a permit
application fee, and certify the following.
   (A)   The match is governed and authorized under the rules of USA Boxing
(boxing), the International Federation of Kickboxing (kickboxing), the
International Sports Combat Federation (mixed martial arts), or another
sanctioning body approved by the City Council or designee.
   (B)   In addition to following the rules of any sanctioning organization,
the promoter must certify:
      (1)   There will be a licensed physician, either a doctor of medicine
(M.D.) or doctor of osteopathy (D.O.), ringside;
      (2)   There will be a waiting ambulance on the premises with at least two
certified emergency medical technicians;
      (3)   A portable defibrillator with all additional equipment necessary
for its operation and oxygen will be available ringside;
      (4)   The contestants and any alternates will be registered and matched
at least seven days before the match;
      (5)   The contestants and any alternates shall be matched according to
the weight classes and rules of the sanctioning body, as recognized by the City
Council, for the particular sport in which the contestant is competing;
      (6)   A licensed physician shall conduct a pre-match physical of all
contestants to ensure that the contestants are fit to participate and that they
have not consumed any alcohol or illegal drugs;
      (7)   A licensed physician shall conduct a post-match physical of all
contestants to ensure that the contestants do not require emergency medical
attention;
      (8)   Health insurance for each participant to provide medical coverage
for any injuries sustained in a match, certificates of which shall be furnished
as part of the permit application;
      (9)   The contestants will wear protective headgear approved by the
sanctioning body, as recognized by the City Council, for the particular sport
in which the contestant is competing. If the sanctioning body does not
recognize or require headgear, headgear consistent with the rules and
regulations set by the United States Olympic Committee (USOC)/USA Boxing must
be worn;
      (10)   The contestants will each wear custom-made or individually-fitted
mouthpieces;
      (11)   The contestants will wear boxing gloves that correspond with the
weight class of the contestants as established by the sanctioning body, as
recognized by the City Council, for the particular sport in which the
contestant is competing;
      (12)   The promoter has arranged with a local law enforcement agency for
the presence of an adequate number of sworn law enforcement officers at the
premises where the match or exhibition will be held. The County Sheriff’s
Office shall determine the number of sworn law enforcement officers required to
be on the premises to provide adequate security. In addition, the promoter
shall be responsible for paying the local law enforcement agency for providing
the security required under this section;
      (13)   Dates, proposed time and hours of operation, location or place of
the event (including street address, if any), and the parameters or boundaries,
with specificity, including exits;
      (14)   Acknowledgment that children under the age of 18 shall be allowed
to observe the event only if accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
      (15)   Acknowledgment that all contestants and observers shall be
required to provide proof of age by displaying valid picture identification to
event staff before entering the premises;
      (16)   The number, kind, and location(s) of restroom facilities and trash
receptacles;
      (17)   The plan for parking and traffic flow including parking location
(s) and regulation, with specificity;
      (18)   The plan for cleanup following the event including the number of
persons involved, the means and method of disposal of trash and refuse, the
location of dumping, and the proposed deadline that cleanup will be completed;
and
      (19)   Such other relevant information as the City Council may require
for the investigation of the applicant.
   (C)   Proof of a bond or certificate of liability insurance in the amount of
at least $1,000,000, indemnifying the public against damages sustained as a
result of holding any match or exhibition as described in this chapter. Such
bond or certificate shall be subject to approval of the City Attorney.
   (D)   The match or exhibition must be held in compliance with the city’s
code of ordinances.
   (E)   The match or exhibition shall be controlled by officials and referees
recognized by the sanctioning body, as recognized by the City Council, for the
particular sport in which the contestant is competing.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any wrestling,
jujitsu, boxing, kickboxing, or mixed martial arts match or exhibition
conducted as part of the City Public School Educational Program, any other
interscholastic or intercollegiate athletic program or as part of the City
Community Amateur Athletic Program sponsored by or under the supervision of the
National Amateur Athletic Union, Law Enforcement Athletic Leagues, or the
United States Olympic Committee/USA Boxing in which all contestants are
amateurs or to any boxing, kickboxing, or mixed martial arts match or
exhibition conducted under the control or supervision of the U.S. Armed Forces.
(Prior Code, § 9.25.030) (Ord. 11-3, passed 5-5-2011)
§ 113.52 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Fees for all event permits issued under §
113.51 shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Payment of fees tendered by check to the city which, if dishonored for
insufficient funds or for any other reason, shall be cause for the City Council
or designee to cancel the permit issued or withhold issuance of additional
permits.
(Prior Code, § 9.25.040) (Ord. 11-3, passed 5-5-2011)
§ 113.53 PERMIT REVIEWS.
   (A)   Upon submission of a complete application for an event permit under §
113.51, the City Council or designee shall have 30 days to either approve or
reject the permit application. A permit application shall be rejected unless
the applicant makes an affidavit swearing that all of the itemized requirements
of §
113.52 will be met. The City Council may attach additional conditions
including, but not limited to, hours of operation, duration of the event,
whether the event may be held indoors or outdoors, or other limitations deemed
necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
   (B)   Denial of a permit application by the City Council may not be
appealed.
(Prior Code, § 9.25.050) (Ord. 11-3, passed 5-5-2011)
§ 113.54 DISPLAY OF PERMIT AND MATCH LIST.
   The promoter of any amateur boxing, kickboxing, or mixed martial arts match
or exhibition shall be responsible for the display of the following items at
the front entrance of the premises where the event is to occur:
   (A)   The event permit;
   (B)   The list of matched pairings of contestants and alternates for each
match; and
   (C)   An affidavit signed under penalty of perjury that the contestants were
matched at least seven days in advance of the match or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 9.25.060) (Ord. 11-3, passed 5-5-2011)
§ 113.55 APPROVAL OF SANCTIONING BODIES.
   (A)   The City Council or designee shall approve an organization as a
sanctioning body upon verification of the following:
      (1)   The organization has adopted and agrees to enforce a defined set of
rules that applies to all matches which will adequately protect the safety of
the participants and the public; and
      (2)   Those rules have been consistently adhered to during the course of
all events approved by said organization for at least the last five years.
   (B)   The organization approving and governing the matches or exhibitions
must be approved by the City Council in the particular sport involved in the
match or exhibition being governed.
(Prior Code, § 9.25.070) (Ord. 11-3, passed 5-5-2011)
§ 113.56 REGULATIONS OF MATCHES AND EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to promote, participate in, or allow any
amateur boxing, kickboxing, mixed martial arts, and other combinations of
punching and kicking or fight night match or exhibition within the city limits
or within three miles of the city limits or any premises licensed to sell
alcohol, any premises where alcohol is served, or any premises that charges an
admission fee to enter the location where the match is held unless the promoter
first obtains a permit from the City Council or designee and providing the
following information:
         (a)   Whether underage persons will be allowed to attend; and
         (b)   If underage persons are allowed, the applicant’s specific plan
to provide proper barriers or separation as required by statutory law.
      (2)   If a law enforcement officer determines that the requirements of
this chapter have not been satisfied, the law enforcement officer may
immediately terminate the match or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 9.25.020)
   (B)   All exhibitions and events described herein are prohibited on public
property.
(Prior Code, § 9.25.080)
(Ord. 11-3, passed 5-5-2011)
§ 113.57 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council or designee may revoke a permit required under this
chapter at any time if information is obtained after the permit is issued from
which the City Council or his or her designee may reasonably conclude that the
permit should have been denied.
   (B)   The City Council or designee may revoke the permit if he or she finds:
      (1)   The person, group, association, or body which had been authorized
under the permit has deviated or will deviate from what was approved in the
permit;
      (2)   The contestants are violating the law or permit conditions; or
      (3)   Other emergency conditions require the event to be concluded to
protect public safety.
(Prior Code, § 9.25.090) (Ord. 11-3, passed 5-5-2011)
§ 113.58 REAPPLICATION.
   No applicant may request a permit if the applicant is found to have been in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter within the previous 12
months.
(Prior Code, § 9.25.100) (Ord. 11-3, passed 5-5-2011)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, or agent who shall fail to comply with
any provision of this chapter or cause same to be done shall be guilty of a
violation of this chapter. Violations of this chapter shall be punishable under
§
10.99.
   (B)   Each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter is committed or continued shall be deemed
to be a separate offense punishable as provided by this chapter.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of
this chapter by injunction or other appropriate judicial writ or proceeding
notwithstanding the fact that a violation of any of the provisions herein is
subject to the penalties provided in division (A) above.
   (D)   Whoever opposes, obstructs, or resists any enforcement officer or any
person authorized by the enforcement officer in the discharge of his or her
duties as provided by this chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided
herein.
(Prior Code, § 9.25.990) (Ord. 11-3, passed 5-5-2011)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Peace, Decency, and Morals
   
130.01   Unlawful assembly
   
130.02   Indecent exposure
   
130.03   Disorderly conduct
   
130.04   Automobile noise
   
130.05   Noise pollution
   
130.06   Gambling
   
130.07   Loitering, panhandling, and begging
   
130.08   Minor prohibited from on-sale liquor premises
   
130.09   Curfew
Offenses Against Public Safety and Authority
   
130.25   Assault and battery
   
130.26   Firearms
   
130.27   Refusal to assist authority
Offenses Against Property
   
130.40   Graffiti prohibited
   
130.41   Garbage and material in streets
   
130.42   Larceny
   
130.43   Injury to property
   
130.44   Climbing or interfering with city structures
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol-related prohibited conduct, see §
112.03
   Health and sanitation; nuisances, see
Chapter 92
   Prohibited conduct in parks, see §
94.19
OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE, DECENCY, AND MORALS
§ 130.01 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   Any person who assembles with two or more persons for the purpose of
engaging in conduct constituting riot or aggravate riot under state law or who,
if being present at an assembly that either has or develops such a purpose,
remains there with the intent to advance that purpose is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. 01-18, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   A person commits the crime of indecent exposure if, with the intent to
arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any person, the person exposes his or
her anus or genitals in a public place under circumstances in which that person
knows that person’s conduct is likely to annoy, offend, or alarm another
person. (Prior Code, § 9.04.030) (Ord. 01-18, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 22-24-1.2
§ 130.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person is guilty of disorderly conduct who intentionally causes serious
public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to any other person or creates a risk
thereof by:
   (A)   Engaging in fighting or in violent or threatening behavior;
   (B)   Making unreasonable noise;
   (C)   Disturbing any lawful assembly or meeting of persons without lawful
authority; or
   (D)   Obstructing vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.050) (Ord. 01-98, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 AUTOMOBILE NOISE.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons, without justifiable cause, to
drive vehicles upon or about the streets of the city in such a way as to
disturb the peace and quiet of any of the inhabitants of the city by
unnecessarily sounding or honking automobile horns, either in the daytime or at
night.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.040) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 NOISE POLLUTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DAYTIME. Between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. the same day.
      DISTRICT. A part, zone, or geographic area of the city within which
certain zoning or development regulations apply.
      EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage which necessitates immediate
action. Economic loss shall not be the sole determining factor in the
determination of an EMERGENCY. It shall be the burden of an alleged violator to
prove an EMERGENCY.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Any work made necessary to restore property to a safe
condition following an emergency or to protect property threatened by an
imminent emergency to the extent such work is necessary to protect persons or
property from exposure to imminent danger or damage.
      NIGHTTIME. Between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day.
      NOISE. Any sound which disturbs humans and which causes or tends to cause
an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
      NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which:
         (a)   Disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities; or
         (b)   Is plainly audible, as defined in this section.
      PERSON. Any person or a person’s firm, association, co-partnership, joint
venture, corporation, or any entity public or private in nature.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound or noise produced by any source or reproduced
by a radio, tape player, television, CD player, electronic audio equipment,
musical instrument, sound amplifier, or other mechanical or electronic sound-
making device or non-amplified human voice that can be clearly heard by a
person using his or her normal hearing faculties.
      PROPERTY BOUNDARY. Any imaginary line exterior to any enclosed structure,
at the ground surface, and its vertical extension which separates the real
property owned by one person from that owned by another person.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, sidewalk, bike path
or alley, or similar place normally accessible to the public which is owned or
controlled by a governmental entity.
      REASONABLE TIME. A radio, music, or sound player or other mechanical
sound- making device or instrument within a motor vehicle is instantly.
Otherwise, absent special circumstances, REASONABLE TIME is 15 minutes in the
case of non-vehicular sound emitters and two calendar days for vehicular sound
emitters.
      SOUND. An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle
velocity, or other physical parameter in a medium with internal forces that
causes compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound may
include any characteristic of such sound including duration, intensity, and
frequency.
      WEEKDAY. Any day Monday through Friday.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   General prohibition. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this
chapter to make, cause, or allow the making of any sound that causes a noise
disturbance, as defined in division (A) above.
      (2)   Specific prohibitions. In addition to the general prohibitions set
out in division (B)(1) above and unless otherwise exempted by this chapter, the
following specific acts or the causing or permitting thereof are hereby
regulated as follows:
         (a)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, and similar
devices. The following constitutes a nuisance:
            1.   Using, operating, or permitting the use or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, television, phonograph, drum, or other
machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound, except as
provided for in division (B)(2)(b) below, in such a manner as to cause a noise
disturbance; and
            2.   The operating of any such device between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day in such a manner as to be plainly audible
at the property boundary of the source or plainly audible at 50 feet from such
device when operated within a vehicle parked on a public right-of-way or
plainly audible at 100 feet from such device when operated within a moving
vehicle.
         (b)   Loudspeakers and public address systems.
            1.   No person shall operate or permit the operation of any
loudspeaker, public address system, or similar device for any commercial
purpose:
               a.   Which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound in such a
manner as to create a noise disturbance; or
               b.   During nighttime hours on a public right-of-way.
            2.   No person shall operate or permit the operation of any
loudspeaker, public address system, or similar device for any noncommercial
purpose (except those used for emergency systems or devices) during nighttime
hours in such a manner as to create a noise disturbance.
         (c)   Defect in vehicle. Operating or permitting to be operated or
used any truck, automobile, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle which, by virtue
of disrepair or manner of operation, causes a noise disturbance;
         (d)   Standing motor vehicles. The operating or causing or permitting
to be operated any motor vehicle or any auxiliary equipment attached thereto in
such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance for a consecutive period longer
than 15 minutes during which such vehicle is stationary in a residential zoning
district; and
         (e)   Recreational vehicles and snowmobiles. Operating a recreational
vehicle or snowmobile in a manner which causes a noise disturbance.
      (3)   Exemptions. The following uses and activities shall be exempt from
the sound level regulations:
         (a)   Non-amplified human voice except yelling, shouting, whistling,
hooting, or generally creating a racket such that it creates a noise
disturbance during the nighttime hours in a residential area in other than time
of emergency;
         (b)   Sounds resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
         (c)   Sounds resulting from emergency work, as defined in divisions
(A) above;
         (d)   Any aircraft operated in conformity with or pursuant to federal
law; federal air regulations and air traffic control instruction used pursuant
to and within the duly adopted federal air regulations; and any aircraft
operating under technical difficulties in any kind of distress, under emergency
orders of air traffic control, or being operated, pursuant and subsequent to,
the declaration of an emergency under federal air regulations;
         (e)   All sounds coming from the normal operations of interstate motor
and rail carriers to the extent that local regulation of sound levels of such
vehicles has been preempted by the Noise Control Act of 1972 (42 U.S.C. §§ 4901
et seq.) or other applicable federal laws or regulations;
         (f)   School outdoor concerts and music activities including marching
band activities, sporting activities with musical components, art festivals,
and student fundraisers;
         (g)   Religious organizations conducting worship services outdoors
with musical components;
         (h)   The city including, but not limited to, Parks Department-
sponsored activities with musical components;
         (i)   Permits issued by the city;
         (j)   Any non-amplified noise generated by noncommercial public
speaking activities conducted on any public property or public right-of-way
pursuant to legal authority; and
         (k)   Sounds produced at organized sporting events by fireworks and by
permitted parades on public property or public right-of-way.
   (C)   Special permits.
      (1)   Permit process.
         (a)   Applications for a special permit for relief from the noise
restrictions in this section may be made in writing to the Finance Officer and
approved by the Mayor and two Council members.
         (b)   The permit application shall include the name, address, and
telephone number of the permit applicant; the date, hours, and location for
which the permit is requested; and the nature of the event or activity. If the
proposed activity or event will involve entertainment, the city may also
request the name and contact information for such individual(s). The
application must be submitted at least ten days in advance of the event, not
including holidays and weekends.
         (c)   Payment of a fee of $50 is required.
         (d)   Any permit granted must be in writing and shall contain all
conditions upon which the permit shall be effective.
         (e)   The Finance Officer may prescribe any reasonable conditions or
requirements he or she deems necessary to minimize noise disturbances upon the
community or the surrounding neighborhood including use of mufflers, screens,
or other sound-attenuating devices.
         (f)   The permit shall be posted at the activity.
      (2)   Conditions for granting permit. Permits may be granted under the
following conditions.
         (a)   The permit shall be limited to a single day unless an
established time frame is approved by the City Council and shall be so stated
on the permit.
         (b)   Permits shall be effective only between the hours of 6:00 p.m.
and 1:00 a.m.
         (c)   No permit shall be issued to any applicant or any activity
convicted of a violation (or if pending conviction) of this chapter within the
same calendar year.
      (3)   Issuance. Upon receipt of a properly executed and signed
application, the city shall issue a special noise permit to the applicant,
which permit shall exempt the premises specified in the permit from the
provisions of this chapter for the date specified in the permit, except that
sound emitted from the premises shall in no way be plainly audible 1,000 feet
from the property boundary.
   (D)   Measurement or assessment of sound. Any police officer or other
official designated by the City Council who hears a noise or sound that is
plainly audible, as defined in division (A) above, in violation of this chapter
shall assess the noise or sound according to the following standards.
      (1)   The primary means of detection shall be by means of the official’s
normal hearing faculties so long as the official’s hearing is not enhanced by
any mechanical device such as a hearing aid.
      (2)   The official must have a direct line of sight and hearing to the
real property of the source of the sound or noise so that the official can
readily identify the offending source of the sound or noise and the distance
involved. If the official is unable to have a direct line of sight and hearing
to the real property of the source of the sound or noise, then the official
shall confirm the source of the sound or noise by approaching the suspected
real property where such source of the sound or noise appears to be emanating
from until the official is able to obtain a direct line of sight and hearing
and identify the identical or same sound or noise that was heard at the place
of original assessment of the sound or noise.
      (3)   The official need not determine the particular words or phrases
being said or produced or the name of any song or artist producing the noise or
sound. The detection of a rhythmic bass or reverberating type of noise or sound
is sufficient to constitute a plainly audible noise or sound.
      (4)   If noise is measured by a db-measuring device, it shall not exceed
a level of 80 db at property boundary.
   (E)   Violation procedures.
      (1)   Violation of sound level limits.
         (a)   Warnings.
            1.   When a designated official of the city determines that there
is a violation of division (B) above, the official shall issue a written
warning to the person or persons responsible for the sound. The warning shall
advise the person of the violation and of the possible penalty if the person
fails to eliminate the sound or reduce the sound so that it is within permitted
limits.
            2.   The person or persons receiving the warning shall have a
reasonable time, as defined in division (A) above, to comply with the warning.
            3.   For the purposes of this section, it is sufficient warning for
all prohibited sounds if the person or persons responsible for any succeeding
sounds are warned of or cited for one or more offending sounds of the same type
in the same calendar year. In the situation of a business with current
ownership less than one year, current ownership would not be responsible for
violations prior to ownership of the business.
         (b)   Citation. If the sound is not eliminated or is not reduced to
allowable limits within a reasonable time after the warning or if the noise or
sound is abated after warning and then reoccurs, the person so warned and not
complying shall be cited for a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Other limits—complaint procedure.
         (a)   Any complaint regarding a sound or noise disturbance based
solely on its disturbing a reasonable person of normal sensitivities must be
filed by a person who is disturbed by the sound or noise. The burden of proof
of this complaint will be on the complainant if the complaint results in a
hearing before a judge. The complaint may be filed at the time of the
disturbance or within a reasonable period of time after the fact.
         (b)   When a complaint has been received, a designated official shall
investigate the charges. If the official finds probable cause to believe the
owner/operator is in violation of this chapter, the official shall issue a
warning to cease the violation.
         (c)   If the owner/operator does not take corrective action within a
reasonable time, as defined in division (A) above, or if the noise or sound is
abated after warning and then reoccurs, the official may issue a citation or
file a sworn complaint with the city and/or the Police Department.
      (3)   Joint and several responsibilities. The owner, tenant, or lessee of
property or a manager, overseer, or agent or any other person lawfully entitled
to possess the property from which the offending sound is emitted at the time
the offending sound is emitted shall be responsible for compliance with this
section. It shall not be a lawful defense to assert that some other person
caused the sound. The lawful possessor or operator of the premises shall be
responsible for operating or maintaining the premises in compliance with this
section and shall be punished whether or not the person actually causing the
sound is also punished.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.070) (Ord. 09-13, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 GAMBLING.
   Any person who engages in gambling in any form with cards, dice, or other
implements or devices of any kind wherein anything valuable is wagered upon the
outcome or who keeps any establishment, place, equipment, or apparatus for such
gambling or any agents or employees for such purpose or any person who
knowingly lets any establishment, structure, place, equipment, or apparatus for
such gambling is guilty of a misdemeanor. The game “Bingo,” as defined in SDCL
§ 22-25-23, or “lottery,” as defined in SDCL § 22-25-24, may not be construed
as gambling or as a lottery within the meaning of this section provided that
said Bingo and lottery comply with SDCL § 22-25-25. Pull tabs and/or instant
tickets may not be considered as gambling within the meaning of this section
provided said pull tabs and instant tickets comply with SDCL Chapter 22-25.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.080) (Ord. 90-3, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL §§ 22-25-23 through 22-25-25 and Chapter 22-25
§ 130.07 LOITERING, PANHANDLING, AND BEGGING.
   (A)   Prohibited. Loitering, panhandling, and/or begging are prohibited.
   (B)   Definitions. For purpose of this section, the following shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AGGRESSIVE MANNER.
         (1)   Approaching or speaking to a person or following a person
before, during, or after soliciting if that conduct is intended or is likely to
cause a reasonable person to fear bodily harm to oneself or to another or
damage to or loss of property or otherwise be intimidated into giving money or
other things of value;
         (2)   Continuing to solicit from a person after the person has given a
negative response to the soliciting;
         (3)   Intentionally touching or causing physical contact with another
person without that person’s consent in the course of soliciting;
         (4)   Intentionally blocking or interfering with the safe or free
passage of a pedestrian or vehicle by any means including unreasonably causing
a pedestrian or vehicle operator to take evasive action to avoid physical
contact;
         (5)   Using violent or threatening gestures toward a person solicited;
         (6)   Following the person being solicited with the intent of asking
that person for money or other things of value;
         (7)   Speaking in a volume unreasonably loud under the circumstances;
or
         (8)   Soliciting money from anyone who is waiting in line for entry to
a building or for another purpose.
      AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE. A device linked to a financial institution’s
account records, which is able to carry out transactions including, but not
limited to, account transfers, deposits, cash withdrawals, balance inquiries,
and mortgage and loan payments.
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any bank, credit union, savings and loan, or other
similar business.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A place where a governmental entity has title to which the
public or a substantial group of persons has access including, but not limited
to, any street, highway, parking lot, playa, transportation facility, school,
place of amusement, park, or playground.
      SOLICITING. Asking for money or objects of value with the intention that
the money or object be transferred at that time and at that place. Soliciting
shall include using the spoken, written, or printed word or bodily gestures,
signs, or other means with the purpose of obtaining an immediate donation of
money or other things of value or soliciting the sale of goods or services.
   (C)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   No person shall solicit in an aggressive manner in any public
place.
      (2)   No person shall solicit on private or residential property without
having first obtained permission from the owner or other person lawfully in
possession of the property.
      (3)   No person shall solicit within 20 feet of any entrance or exit of
any financial institution or 20 feet of any automated teller machine without
the consent of the owner of the property or another person legally in
possession of the facilities.
      (4)   No person shall solicit an operator or other occupant of a motor
vehicle.
      (5)   No person shall solicit any operator or occupant of a motor vehicle
on a public street in exchange for blocking, occupying, or reserving a public
parking space or directing the operator or occupant to a public parking space.
      (6)   No person shall solicit while under the influence of alcohol or a
controlled substance.
      (7)   No person shall solicit by stating that funds are needed to meet a
specific need when the solicitor has the funds to meet that need, does not
intend to use funds to meet that need, or does not have that need.
      (8)   No person shall solicit in any public transportation vehicle or at
any bus stop or in any public parking lot or structure.
      (9)   No person shall solicit within six feet of an entrance to a
building.
      (10)   No person shall solicit within 20 feet of any pay telephone;
provided, when a pay telephone is located within a telephone booth or other
facility, the distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the
telephone booth or facility.
      (11)   No person shall solicit anytime before sunrise or anytime after
sunset.
      (12)   No person shall solicit anytime within 20 feet of any public
restroom facility.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.090) (Ord. 08-10, passed - -; Ord. 09-3, passed 4-9-2009)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 MINOR PROHIBITED FROM ON-SALE LIQUOR PREMISES.
   (A)   Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
enter or be found in or upon any licensed on-sale liquor establishment premises
where high point beer or intoxicating beverages of any kind or character are
sold or consumed unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, or a spouse of legal
age. This section shall not apply to establishments where food is sold and the
operator thereof keeps and maintains in full force and effect a restaurant
license.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.020)
   (B)   Duty of proprietor. It shall be the duty of the owner or proprietor of
any licensed on-sale liquor establishment or of any place where high point beer
or intoxicating beverages are sold, excepting proprietors of establishments
duly licensed as a restaurant, to remove or cause to be removed any person
under the age of 21 years from his or her place of business.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.030)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 CURFEW.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age 18 years to be in or upon
any public place between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any weekday
during the regular school year or between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
on any weekday during the summer months, and the same when school is not in
session, or between the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 5:00 a.m. on any
Saturday or Sunday unless accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian
unless exempted under division (C) below.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian having custody of any person
under the age of 18 years to permit such minor person to be about, in, or upon
any public place during the foregoing hours unless exempted under division (C)
below.
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the U.S.
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.010) (Ord. 81-7, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY AND AUTHORITY
§ 130.25 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Any person is guilty of assault and battery who:
      (1)   Attempts to cause bodily injury to another and has the actual
ability to cause the injury;
      (2)   Recklessly causes bodily injury to another;
      (3)   Negligently causes bodily injury to another with a dangerous
weapon; and/or
      (4)   Attempts, by physical menace, to put another in fear of imminent
serious bodily harm with or without the actual ability to seriously harm the
other person.
   (B)   BATTERY is defined in divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) above. ASSAULT is
defined in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(4) above.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.020) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 FIREARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge any firearms or air guns within
the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.020) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.27 REFUSAL TO ASSIST AUTHORITY.
   It is unlawful for any mentally and physically able-bodied person, when so
requested, to refuse to aid and assist law enforcement of the city to suppress
any riot or disturbance or any unlawful assemblage or to arrest or attempt to
arrest a person for any violation of any ordinance of the city or to prevent
the violation of any of such ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.060) Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.40 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Graffiti is considered a nuisance and is, therefore, prohibited.
GRAFFITI is defined as any writing, printing, marks, signs, symbols, figures,
designs, inscriptions, or other drawings which are scratched, scrawled,
painted, drawn, or otherwise placed on any exterior surface of a building,
wall, fence, sidewalk, curb, vehicle, or other permanent structure on a public
or private property which has the effect of defacing the property. This is not
to be intended for surface protection and/or signage.
   (B)   No person shall intentionally place graffiti on any surface located on
public or private property. The owner of any property shall not allow graffiti
to be placed on any external surface on the owner’s property. This will not
include railroad cars which are unenforceable.
(Prior Code, § 9.20.010) (Ord. 07-11, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.41 GARBAGE AND MATERIAL IN STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to throw or deposit in
any of the streets, avenues, alleys, or public grounds of the city any offal,
dead or decaying animals, fruit or vegetable matter, manure, garbage, glass,
nails, tacks, tin cans, or any matter or materials offensive to the public or
liable to cause injury to persons or vehicles in the lawful use of such
streets, avenues, alleys, or public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.42 LARCENY.
   It is unlawful for any person to take or attempt to take from any other
person or any store, building, or other place within the city by fraud or
stealth or, by any manner, any money, property, or anything of value (tangible
or intangible) with the intent to deprive the owner of such property.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.020) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.43 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to carry away or remove or to willfully,
maliciously, or negligently break or deface, destroy, or otherwise injure any
bridge, crossing, culvert, sidewalk, lamp or lamp post, or any ornamental or
shade tree, shrub, railing, fence, or other property, article, or thing
belonging to the city or belonging to any private person therein.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.030) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.44 CLIMBING OR INTERFERING WITH CITY STRUCTURES.
   It is unlawful for any person to climb or, in any way or manner, interfere
with any building, water tower, swimming pool, or structure belonging to the
city without being authorized to do so by the city, and no person shall, in any
manner, injure or deface any such structure.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.040) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
130.05 shall be subject to a fine for each offense of $125 plus court costs,
and each subsequent violation in the same calendar year shall result in an
increase in the fine of $25 per subsequent violation (such as $125 for the
first offense, $150 for the second offense, $175 for the third offense, and so
on, plus court costs). If the violation is of a continuing nature, each day
during which it occurs shall constitute an additional, separate, and distinct
offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.070)
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of §
130.07 is punishable by imprisonment for not more than 30 days or by fine, not
to exceed $200, or by both.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.090)
   (D)   The owner of any property that graffiti has been placed upon, in
violation of §
130.40, shall remove or cover such graffiti within a 72-hour period. Any person
failing to remove or cover such graffiti within the stated time frame shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall pay a fine not to exceed $100 per SDCL § 9-
19-3.
(Prior Code, § 9.20.010)
(Ord. 09-3, passed 4-9-2009; Ord. 09-13, passed 10-5-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL § 9-19-3
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      151.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Street and Sidewalk Construction
   
150.01   Conformance
   
150.02   Materials
   
150.03   Dimensions
   
150.04   Location and grade
   
150.05   Variance
   
150.06   Requirements for construction and repair of sidewalk
   
150.07   Removal and non-replacement of sidewalks
Street and Sidewalk Use Regulations
   
150.20   Tractor damage prevention
   
150.21   Obstructions
   
150.22   Sports on public streets
   
150.23   Distribution of merchandise during parades
   
150.24   Bicycles, skateboard, or roller blades on sidewalks along Main Street
   
150.25   Sidewalk sales
   
150.26   Street trees
Snow and Ice Removal
   
150.40   Designated areas for snow removal
   
150.41   Snow removal alert; termination
   
150.42   Parking prohibited
   
150.43   Emergency snow routes
   
150.44   Work by city
   
150.45   Removal of vehicle in violation authorized
 
   
150.99   Penalty
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 150.01 CONFORMANCE.
   The location, elevations, and dimensions of all sidewalks and curbs and
gutters to be constructed in the residential areas of the city shall conform to
the drawings dated July 1963 and titled “Sidewalk and Curb and Gutter
Requirements in Residential Areas” and on file in the City Finance Officer’s
records and as described herein.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.010)
§ 150.02 MATERIALS.
   All sidewalks and all curb and gutters shall be constructed of good-quality
concrete. Concrete shall be composed of sand, crushed rock or crushed gravel,
Portland cement, and only enough water to give a workable mix. The concrete
mixture shall develop a compressive strength of at least 3,000 pounds per
square inch in 28 days, but in all cases have at least five and one-half bags
of cement per cubic yard and not more than six gallons of water per bag of
cement. Good accepted practices shall be followed in mixing, transporting,
placing, finishing, and curing the concrete.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.020)
§ 150.03 DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be constructed four inches thick and four
feet wide in residential areas. There shall be a “dummy” or control joint cut
across the sidewalk at four-foot intervals to control cracking. The four-foot
wide sidewalks shall slope one and one-half inches toward the street.
   (B)   Curb and gutter. No straight curb without an integral gutter section
shall be constructed. All curb and gutter sections shall have an overall width
of 30 inches. The gutter section shall be six inches above the gutter flow line
making a total thickness of 12 inches at the back edge of the curb. All curb
shall be constructed with an integral gutter section. The curb shall be a roll
type with a two-inch flat top surface and sloping to the gutter flow line ten
inches from the back of the curb. The gutter flow line shall be one and one-
half inches lower than the front edge of the gutter section.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.030)
§ 150.04 LOCATION AND GRADE.
   (A)   Sidewalks. The sidewalks shall be constructed within the street right-
of-way with the property side of the sidewalk coinciding with the property
line. Whenever practical, the sidewalk shall be constructed at an elevation
lower than the finished ground elevation at the building site on the property,
and if practical, it shall be level with or above the finished street
centerline elevation.
   (B)   Curb and gutter. The back side of the curb shall be 20 feet from the
centerline of the street right-of-way to provide a 40-foot street from back of
curb to back of curb. Wherever practical, the top of the curb shall be
constructed level with or lower than the street side of the sidewalk, and if
practical, it shall also be approximately level with the finished street
centerline elevation. If no sidewalk exists, the top of the curb, if practical,
shall be low enough to allow drainage from the property into the street. The
curb and gutter shall have a longitudinal slope of at least four inches per 100
feet, but a greater slope is desirable.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.040)
§ 150.05 VARIANCE.
   This chapter may have a variance granted at any time by the City Engineer or
the City Council regarding the location of sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.050)
§ 150.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALK.
   (A)   Notice to property owners. Whenever the City Council shall deem it
necessary to construct, rebuild, or repair any sidewalk, it shall notify all
owners of lots adjoining such sidewalk to construct, rebuild, or repair the
same at their own expense within a time designated. Such notice shall be in
writing and either be personally served on each owner or by publication once in
each week for two consecutive weeks. It shall set forth the character of the
work and the time within which it is to be done. Such notice may be general as
to the owners but must be specific as to the description of such lots.
   (B)   Work to be done by property owner or the city. If sidewalk is not
constructed, reconstructed, or repaired in the manner and within the time
prescribed in the notice given, the City Council, by resolution, may cause the
same to be done and the cost thereof assessed against the lots, plots, or
parcels of land fronting or abutting upon the sidewalk so constructed,
reconstructed, or repaired.
   (C)   Liability of property owner for failure to repair. Any owner of real
property who shall fail to keep in repair the sidewalks in front or along such
property, if he or she resides thereof or if he or she does not reside thereon,
and to repair the same forthwith when notified shall be held liable to the city
for any damage caused by such neglect.
   (D)   Specifications, concrete, or equal material required. The construction
of sidewalks, whether done by the owner of the fronting or abutting property or
by the city, direct or through a contractor, shall be according to the
specifications for sidewalks on file in the City Finance Office. All sidewalk
construction repair shall be of concrete or equal material approved and on file
in the City Finance Office.
   (E)   Supervision of work. The building and construction of all sidewalks
within the city shall be done under the supervision of the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.060)
§ 150.07 REMOVAL AND NON-REPLACEMENT OF SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall tear up, break, or injure any pavement, crosswalk,
sidewalks, or other improvement in any street or public ground. Any pavement,
sidewalk, or other improvement in any street or public ground removed, torn up,
or injured shall be replaced at the builder’s, owner’s, or developer’s sole
cost. The removal and non-replacement of sidewalks will not be permitted unless
under specific circumstances, and when property owners acquire written
documentation of approval from adjacent property owners, the City Council may
grant a special variance for sidewalk removal.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.070) (Ord. 09-19, passed 12-30-2009)
STREET AND SIDEWALK USE REGULATIONS
§ 150.20 TRACTOR AND LIKE VEHICLE DAMAGE PREVENTION.
   (A)   Sidewalk or concrete damage. It is unlawful for the owner of operator
of any type of traction engine, whether the same be operated by steam,
gasoline, or other power to permit the same to be upon or across any pavement,
concrete, or bituminous or concrete sidewalk in the city without having
adequately protected the same from injury therefrom by planking the same, and
any person who shall cause any damage in the premises herein shall be liable to
the city or the owner of the adjacent property therefor.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.010)
   (B)   Injury to streets and crossings. It is unlawful for any person (either
the owner or one in charge of any steam or power engine, tractor, or vehicle of
any kind) to cross or attempt to cross over any bridge or culvert or to drive
on any pavement or highway in the city which vehicle shall have metal mud lugs
attached to its wheels in such a manner as to injure or destroy such city
property, and any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, in addition thereto, shall be liable to the city
for all such damages incurred thereby.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.020)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct any public highway, street, or
alley or to make or cause to be made any structure, enclosure, fence, cellar,
door, stairway, or building encroaching in or in part on any such street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city without having first obtained written
permission to do so from the City Council, and a record of such permission
shall have been made in the minutes of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.030) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 SPORTS ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   No person or persons shall, upon the public streets of the city, fly any
kite; throw stones, clods, or snowballs; roll hoops; throw balls; engage in any
sport or exercise liable to frighten horses, injure passengers, embarrass the
passage of vehicles, or obstruct any lawful business or any person; or be
liable to result in the injury by of persons lawfully on the streets or injury
to buildings or windows adjacent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.040) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 DISTRIBUTION OF MERCHANDISE DURING PARADES.
   It is unlawful to throw, drop, or otherwise distribute candy or other
merchandise on the streets during a parade where motor vehicles or horse-drawn
vehicles are present. This does not prohibit the distribution by hand of candy
or merchandise. All distribution of any merchandise shall be at least five feet
from any parade vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.050) (Ord. 95-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 BICYCLES, SKATEBOARD, OR ROLLER BLADES ON SIDEWALKS ALONG MAIN STREET.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to ride, leave standing, or otherwise
have bicycles, skateboards, or roller skates upon the sidewalks on either side
of Main Street between 5th Avenue and 6th Avenue.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to ride, stand on, or use skateboards or
roller skates upon Main Street between 4th Avenue and South Boulevard.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.060) (Ord. 86-5, passed - -; Ord. 90-10, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 SIDEWALK SALES.
   (A)   Businesses located on Main Street between 4th Avenue and South
Boulevard will not be allowed to sell or display any goods, wares, merchandise,
novelties, souvenirs, or other articles of commerce or trade outside of their
business structure. This would include but not be limited to the sidewalks,
rafters from their awnings, and doors that open out onto the sidewalks.
   (B)   The only exception, and therefore would be grandfathered in, would be
an existing pop machine on a sidewalk wider than 12 feet.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.070) (Ord. 08-9, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 STREET TREES.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   No street trees shall be planted unless and until the Public Works
Director shall have first approved the kind, size, variety, and location
thereof and granted a permit therefor. The permit shall be issued without
charge.
      (2)   A street tree list for the city shall be developed by the Public
Works Director and approved by the Parks Department.
      (3)   Maintenance of street trees shall be the responsibility of the
owner of the abutting property.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to top any street tree or other tree
on public property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than six inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a
degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes or obstructions where other pruning practices
are impractical may be topped only with the approval of the Parks Department.
      (5)   All stumps of street and park trees shall be cut below the surface
of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface
of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.010)
   (B)   Duties of private owner. It shall be the duty of any person growing or
maintaining or planting a tree within the parking strip or other public place
or responsible for trees growing on property abutting on public places as
follows:
      (1)   Trimming. To keep all trees standing upon private property or upon
the parking strip or boulevard adjoining such property so trimmed that no bough
or branch thereof shall be lower than approximately 14 feet above the surface
of the street, road, alley, or any sidewalk thereon and shall keep all such
trees so trimmed that no trunk, limb, or branch thereof shall in any way or at
any time come in contact with any street lighting;
      (2)   Treatment or removal. To treat or remove any tree or plant so
diseased or insect ridden as to constitute a hazard to trees or plants in
public places;
      (3)   Time for compliance. A verbal reminder will be made, and if work is
not completed within 30 days, a reminder notice shall be sent. If the tree
trimming has not begun within an additional 30 days, an employee from the city
shall trim the trees for a fee; and
      (4)   Work by the city. Whenever any property owner, tenant, or person in
possession of any parcel of real estate shall fail or neglect to trim trees to
the appropriate height, as provided in this section, the city will, without
notice, have the trees trimmed. A bill for the expense incurred thereby shall
be presented to the owner, tenant, or person in possession of such parcel of
real estate or by placing a lien upon the real estate. There shall be a $50
service fee plus $20 per hour for equipment and manpower.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.020)
(Ord. 93-2, passed - -; Ord. 05-13, passed - -)
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL
§ 150.40 DESIGNATED AREAS FOR SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   Driveway, parking lot, or parking area. It shall be the duty of the
property owner, tenant, or person in possession of any public or private
driveway, parking lot, or parking area to dispose of accumulated snow upon such
property in such a manner that any snow, when removed, shall not be deposited
upon any sidewalk or within or upon any public street, alley, right-of-way,
waterway, alley, or drainage area or in a manner that will obstruct or
interfere with the passage or vision of vehicles or pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Main Street between 4th and 7th Avenues (commercial). It shall be the
duty of any property owner, tenant, or person in possession of any property
abutting any sidewalk located on Main Street between 4th and 7th Avenue to
dispose of accumulated snow upon such sidewalk. All such snow and ice
accumulations shall be removed within 12 hours of daylight and no later than 9:
00 a.m. the following day after such snow or ice has accumulated. Snow, when
removed, shall not be deposited within or upon any public street or alley
following 48 hours after such public street or alley has been cleared of snow
by the grading of such snow away from the curb or the picking up and carrying
away of such snow by the city.
   (C)   Commercial and residential areas other than Main Street. It shall be
the duty of any property owner, tenant, or person in possession of any property
abutting any sidewalk to dispose of accumulated snow from said sidewalk in such
a manner that any snow, when removed, shall not be deposited within or upon any
public street or alley. All snow and ice accumulation shall be removed within
12 hours of daylight after such snow or ice has accumulated.
(Prior Code, 12.16.010) (Ord. 14-03, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 150.41 SNOW REMOVAL ALERT; TERMINATION.
   (A)   Snow removal alert. Whenever there is snow accumulation on the public
street of two or more inches, the snow removal alert shall be in effect, with
the exception of any measurable snow accumulation on Main Street and Glenn
Street or any other street designated by the Council. A snow removal alert may
also be declared by the Public Works Director, Mayor, and/or Street Committee.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.030)
   (B)   Termination of snow alert. After a snow removal alert has become
effective, there will be no declaration of its termination, but such alert
shall terminate, and the provisions of this chapter shall become not effective
nor enforceable as to any particular street or portion of a street as soon as
that street or portion thereof has been plowed and/or cleared of snow
accumulation, side to side, after which normal parking may be resumed until the
next declared snow removal alert.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.050)
(Ord. 97-6, passed - -; Ord. 07-15, passed - -; Ord. 10-1, passed 2-4-2010)
§ 150.42 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking on any public street of the city will be completely prohibited
during the existence of a snow removal alert from 2:00 a.m. and until the
street has been plowed and/or cleaned.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.040) (Ord. 97-6, passed - -; Ord. 04-1, passed - -; Ord.
10-1, passed 2-4-2010)
§ 150.43 EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   There are established emergency snow routes in the city upon the
following streets and portions of streets:
 
Streets     Extent
Main Street From 4th Avenue to South Boulevard
 
   (B)   Emergency snow routes shall be designated by appropriate signs and
shall be cleared at all times if practicable. It shall be unlawful for any
person to stop, stand, park, or leave unattended any motor vehicle upon an
emergency snow route immediately after two inches of snow has accumulated and
until the snow has been plowed to the curb line.
   (C)   Any vehicle in violation of this section shall be declared a public
nuisance and may be removed as provided in §
150.45.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.045) (Ord. 11-1, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 150.44 WORK BY CITY.
   (A)   Whenever any property owner, tenant, or person in possession of any
parcel of real estate located on Main Street between 4th and 7th Avenues shall
fail or neglect to remove snow and ice from any sidewalk within 12 hours of
daylight and no later than 9:00 a.m. the following day after such snow or ice
shall have accumulated as provided in this subchapter. The city, without
notice, shall have the ice and snow removed from the property. The removal of
the snow and ice shall be accomplished by the City Public Works Department or
designee. Any unpaid bill for the expense incurred thereby shall be presented
to the City Council for collection from the owner, tenant, or person in
possession of the said parcel of real estate or by placing a lien upon the real
estate. There shall be a $50 service fee plus an hourly rate for equipment, and
manpower shall be determined by the current pay multiplied by 150%. Fees may be
changed by resolution.
   (B)   All other residential and commercial property located within the city
limits shall have 12 hours following receipt of a written notification to
remove snow and ice. The removal of the snow and ice shall be accomplished by
the City Public Works Department or designee. Any unpaid bill for the expense
incurred thereby shall be presented to the City Council for collection from the
owner, tenant, or person in possession of the said parcel of real estate or by
placing a lien upon the real estate. There shall be a $50 service fee plus an
hourly rate for equipment, and manpower shall be determined by the current pay
multiplied by 150%. Fees may be changed by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.060) (Ord. 97-6, passed - -; Ord. 01-9A, passed - -; Ord.
10-1, passed 2-4-2010)
§ 150.45 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE IN VIOLATION AUTHORIZED.
   A vehicle parked in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter may
be removed from the street by law enforcement or ticketing official or an
authorized agent. The removed vehicle may be placed in public or private
storage, and the vehicle’s registered owner shall pay the towing and storage
charges before being given possession of the vehicle; provided, the payment of
the costs shall not be a bar to the prosecution of the owner or such other
person responsible for the violation. A storage fee of an amount to be set from
time to time by resolution of the Council shall be charged to registered owner
each day until the vehicle is claimed.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.075) (Ord. 11-1, passed 2-8-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Parking rules, see
Chapter 70
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
150.24 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.060)
   (C)   Any business of the location specified in §
150.25 that is in violation said section shall be fined up to $100.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.070)
   (D)   Violations of §§
150.40 through
150.45 shall be subject to a $25 fine, payable to the City Finance Office
within 72 hours of the time the citation was issued. If the owner or operator
fails to pay the sum within the 72-hour period, he or she may pay to the office
within the next two weeks, as a penalty for and in full satisfaction of the
violation, the sum of $35. Upon failure of the owner or operator to pay either
of the sums to the office within the time periods indicated and, upon
conviction of a violation of provisions herein, the owner or operator shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $100, which fine shall be collected by
the court system.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.070)
   (E)   (1)   Commercial property. The property owners of sidewalks on the
east and west side of Main Street between 4th Avenue and 7th Avenue that have
not been cleaned within the 12 daylight hours will be charged a $50 fine and
the cost of cleaning by a city worker or designee for the first offense. A
second offense will be charged a $75 fine and the cost of cleaning. A third
offense will be charged a $100 fine and the cost of cleaning, and a $100 fine
and cost of cleaning for each offense thereafter.
      (2)   Residential property. A courtesy letter will be sent to any other
property located in the city when a written complaint is filed with the City
Finance Office and on a city complaint form. Upon receiving a second written
complaint, the city workers or designee will clear the sidewalk and a first
offense fine of $20 and the cost of cleaning will be charged. Second offenses
will be charged a $50 fine and the cost of cleaning. Third offenses will be
charged a $75 fine and the cost of cleaning, and there will be a $75 fine and
cost of cleaning for each offense thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.025)
(Ord. 08-9, passed - -; Ord. 10-1, passed 2-4-2010; Ord. 18-01, passed 3-1-
2018)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title and application
   
151.002   Chapter provisions
   
151.003   Official zoning map
Zoning District Regulations
   
151.020   Application of district regulations
   
151.021   Non-conforming uses
   
151.022   District regulations
   
151.023   “A” Agricultural District
   
151.024   “R” Single-Family Residential District
   
151.025   “C” Commercial District
   
151.026   “HC” Highway Commercial District
   
151.027   “I” Industrial District
Administration
   
151.040   General
   
151.041   Administrative Official
   
151.042   Board of Adjustment
   
151.043   Planning Commission
   
151.044   Procedures for applications
Supplemental Regulations
   
151.060   Fences
   
151.061   Accessory uses
   
151.062   Signs and outdoor advertising
   
151.063   Parking
   
151.064   Structures to have access
   
151.065   Yards
   
151.066   Erection of more than one principal structure on a lot
   
151.067   Private wastewater treatment systems (septic tanks)
   
151.068   Manufactured home provisions
   
151.069   Permanent foundations required for dwellings
   
151.070   Utility easements
   
151.071   Moved-in buildings
   
151.072   Moved-out buildings
   
151.073   Screening
   
151.074   Maintenance
   
151.075   Refuse
   
151.076   Exempt structures
   
151.077   Lighting standards
   
151.078   Cannabis establishments
   
151.079   Bed and breakfasts (B&Bs)
   
151.080   Home occupations
   
151.081   Caretaker/watchman’s quarters
   
151.082   Private storage as a conditional use
Definitions
   
151.100   General definitions
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known and referred to as "The Zoning
Ordinance of the City of Wall, South Dakota."
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
territory within the boundaries of the City of Wall, South Dakota, as
established on the official zoning map of the City of Wall.
   (C)   Purpose and intent. 
      (1)   The Zoning Ordinance is enacted for the purpose set forth and
provided for in SDCL Chapters 11-4 and 11-6, that is, among other things to
promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the community. Any land use
conducted in conformance with the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Wall is
hereby deemed to be consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   This chapter has been prepared in accordance with the Comprehensive
Land Use Plan for the city and is designed to coordinate physical development
of the community with needs for public services and facilities. More
specifically, the Zoning Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following
objectives:
         (a)   To assist in the implementation of the City of Wall's
Comprehensive Plan which in its entirety represents the foundation upon which
this chapter is based.
         (b)   To foster a harmonious, convenient, workable relationship among
land uses.
         (c)   To promote the stability of existing land uses that conform with
the Comprehensive Plan and to protect them from inharmonious influences and
harmful intrusions.
         (d)   To ensure that public and private lands ultimately are used for
the purposes which are most appropriate and most beneficial from the standpoint
of the city as a whole.
         (e)   To prevent excessive population densities and overcrowding of
the land with structures.
         (f)   To foster the provision of adequate off-street parking and off-
street truck loading facilities.
         (g)   To facilitate the appropriate location of community facilities
and institutions.
         (h)   To protect and enhance real estate values.
         (i)   To safeguard and enhance the appearance of the city, including
natural amenities.
         (j)   To place the power and responsibility of the use of land in the
hands of the property owner contingent upon the compatibility of surrounding
uses and the Comprehensive Plan.
         (k)   To regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, and bulk
of building and other structures; the percentage of lots that may be occupied;
the size of yards, courts, and other open spaces; and the location and use of
other purposes.
         (l)   To regulate and restrict the erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, and use of buildings, structures, and land.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.002 CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   Provisions of chapter declared to be minimum requirements. Where the
conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
law, ordinance, statute, resolution, or regulation of any kind, the regulations
which are more restrictive, or which impose higher standards or requirements
shall govern (see SDCL § 11-4-6).
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.003 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Official zoning map. 
      (1)   The city is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on
the official zoning map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
      (2)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor of the city attested by the City Finance Officer under the following
words: "This is to certify that this is the official zoning map referred to in
§
151.003,” together with the date of the adoption of this chapter. The official
zoning map shall be on file at the office of the City Finance Officer.
      (3)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and SDCL
Chapter 11-4, as amended, changes are made in district boundaries or other
matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall not become
effective until after said changes have been made on the official zoning map by
the City Finance Officer or in his or her absence a person designated by the
City Council. Any unauthorized change by any person or persons shall be
considered a violation of this chapter and punishable as provided under §
151.999.
      (4)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official
zoning map which may from time to time be made or published, the official
zoning map, which shall be located in the city offices, shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings,
and other structures in the city.
   (B)   Rules where map designation uncertain. Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the various zoning districts as shown on the zoning map, the
following rules shall apply:
      (1)   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys, highways,
rights-of-way, railroad rights-of-way, waterways, lot lines, property lines,
quarter section lines, half section lines, or full section lines, unless
otherwise shown.
      (2)   Where the designation on the zoning map indicates the various
districts are approximately
bounded by lot lines, the lot lines shall be the boundaries of such districts
unless boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map.
   (C)   Changes and/or replacement of official zoning map.
      (1)   If the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or
difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the City Council may by resolution adopt a new official zoning map
which shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new official zoning
map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor attested by the City
Finance Officer, under the following words: "This is to certify that this
official zoning map supersedes and replaces the official zoning map adopted
(date of adoption of map being replaced) as part of the Zoning Ordinance of the
City of Wall, State of South Dakota."
      (2)   Unless the prior official zoning map has been lost, or has been
totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining
shall be preserved together with all available records pertaining to its
adoption or amendment.
      (3)   In the event the official zoning map becomes difficult to interpret
because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the City Council may
by resolution adopt a new official zoning map, which shall supersede the prior
official zoning map. The new official zoning map may correct drafting or other
errors or omissions in the prior official zoning map, but no such corrections
shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning map or any
subsequent amendment thereof.
      (4)   Changes to the official zoning map shall require amendments of this
regulation by ordinance, as provided for in §
151.044(K).
   (D)   Annexation. Subsequent of the effective date of these regulations, any
land annexed into the municipal boundaries of the City of Wall shall be
automatically placed into the "A" Agricultural Zoning District, unless and
until such time as the area is rezoned by amendment of these regulations by
ordinance, as provided for in §
151.044(K).
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 151.020 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability of regulations. The regulations set forth by this
chapter within each district shall be minimum regulations and shall apply
uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, except as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   Compliance; generally.
      (1)   No building, structure, land, or any part thereof shall hereafter
be used or occupied; nor
      (2)   Shall any building, structure, land, or any part thereof shall
hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, converted, altered, enlarged,
extended, raised, moved, or used; nor
      (3)   Shall any premises be used for any purpose other than a purpose
permitted in the district in which said building or premise is located, except
as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Structures and lots; construction or alteration; limitations of.
      (1)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or
altered:
         (a)   To exceed the height or bulk;
         (b)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
         (c)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
         (d)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards,
or other open spaces than herein required; or in any other manner contrary to
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.021 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that
may later be adopted there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures,
and characteristics of use which were lawful before this chapter was passed or
amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the
terms of this chapter or future amendment. It is the intent of this chapter to
permit these non-conformities to continue until they are removed, but not to
encourage their survival.
      (2)   Non-conforming uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the districts involved. A non-conforming use of a
structure, a non-conforming use of land or a non-conforming use of structure
and land in combination shall not be extended, expanded, or enlarged after
passage of this chapter by the addition of other structures or uses, or a
nature of which would be prohibited generally elsewhere in the district
involved.
      (3)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   Repairs and maintenance.
      (1)   On any non-conforming structure or portion of a structure
containing a non- conforming use, work may be done in any period of 12
consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of non-
bearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing to an extent not exceeding 10% of
the replacement cost of the non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion
of the structure as the case may be, provided that the cubic content existing
when it became non-conforming shall not be increased.
      (2)   If a non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing
a non-conforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of
repairs and maintenance and is declared by the City Council to be unsafe or
unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be restored,
repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   (C)   Uses and structures. A lawful use or structure existing at the time
this chapter is adopted or amended may continue even though such use does not
conform to the district regulations subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Whenever a non-conforming use or structure has been changed to a
conforming use, it shall
not be changed back to a non-conforming use.
      (2)   If any non-conforming building is destroyed or damaged by any
casualty, such building may be repaired or replaced and use continued providing
said reconstruction shall not add to the non-conformity or add to the cubic
contents of said building as the same existed at the time of such casualty; and
provided further that such repair or reconstruction of such building shall
begin within six months after such casualty and completed within a reasonable
time thereafter. However, if the damage caused by such casualty is such as to
cause a loss in value exceeding 50% of the replacement value immediately prior
to such casualty then it cannot be rebuilt for a non-conforming use. The loss
in value shall be computed as the difference between the actual cash value of
the structure immediately before and after the casualty. Cash value shall be
the same as that used for insurance purposes as approved by the State of South
Dakota Insurance Code.
      (3)   When a non-conforming use or the use of a non-conforming structure
is discontinued for a period of one year, it shall not be continued unless in
conformance with the requirements of this chapter and SDCL § 11-6-39 which
states, "The lawful use of land or premises existing at the time of the
adoption of the Zoning Ordinance may be continued, even though the use, lot, or
occupancy does not conform to the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance. If the
non-conforming use is discontinued for a period of more than one year, any
subsequent use, lot, or occupancy of the land or premises shall be in
conformance with such regulation."
      (4)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any part of a
structure, which was arranged or designed for such use prior to the adoption of
this chapter but shall not be extended outside such structure.
      (5)   No existing non-conforming use or structure shall be enlarged,
moved, or structurally altered except to change to a permitted or conditional
use. This does not include normal repairs and maintenance, which do not
enlarge, move, or structurally alter a non-conforming use.
      (6)   NON-CONFORMING LAND USE shall be deemed to include non-conforming
manufactured home courts existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter,
and the substitution or replacement of Type I and Type II manufactured homes to
said manufactured home court shall not be deemed to have changed the use
thereof from a non-conforming to a conforming use.
      (7)   Non-standard uses existing immediately prior to the effective date
of this chapter may be continued, although such uses do not conform to the
provisions hereof. Non-standard buildings or structures may be enlarged or
extended, converted, reconstructed, or structurally altered as follows:
         (a)   Enlargements, extensions, conversions, or structural alterations
may be made as required by law or ordinance.
         (b)   Structural alteration of buildings or structures may otherwise
be made if such changes do not further encroach into an existing front yard,
side yard, or rear yard which is less than the minimum required yards for the
district in which they are located.
         (c)   Enlargement, extension, conversion of buildings or structures
may otherwise be made if such changes comply with the minimum required yards,
lot area, height, landscaping, parking, and density for the district in which
they are located.
      (8)   Nothing contained in this section shall be so construed as to
abridge or curtail the powers of the Administrative Official, Enforcing Officer
(City Council), or Planning Commission as set forth elsewhere in this chapter.
   (D)   Uses under conditional use provisions not non-conforming uses. Any use
which is permitted as a conditional use in a district under the terms of this
chapter shall not be deemed a non-conforming use in such district but shall
without further action be considered a conforming use.
   (E)   Non-conforming lots of record. 
      (1)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record after the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
chapter. Such lots must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage
with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply even though
such a lot fails to meet the requirements of area or width, or both, that are
generally applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and
requirements other than these applying to area or width, or both, of the lot
shall conform to the regulations of the district in which such lot is located.
Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained; however, the governing board
is not obligated to grant said variance(s).
      (2)   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots
with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of
passage or amendment of this chapter, and if all or part of the lots do not
meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the land involved
shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this chapter,
and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this
chapter, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with
width or area below the requirements in this chapter.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.022 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. 
      (1)   The district regulations included in this section may be qualified
or supplemented by additional regulations appearing elsewhere in this chapter.
      (2)   Any use or uses not expressly permitted in a particular district
shall be prohibited, unless such uses are existing at the effective date of
these regulations and qualify as non-conforming uses, or unless a conditional
use permit is granted as provided for in §
151.044(A) of these regulations.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment may establish additional requirements and
standards for uses and
structures permitted by conditional use permit in accordance with §
151.044(A).
   (B)   Zoning districts.
      (1)   The following zone and use districts are hereby established for the
purposes of administration and enforcement of this chapter.
         (a)   “A” Agricultural District.
         (b)   “R” Residential District.
         (c)   “C” Commercial District.
         (d)   “HC” Highway Commercial District.
         (e)   “I” Industrial District.
      (2)   These districts shall be designated as zoning overlay districts,
imposing special regulations on the properties that fall within these overlay
districts without abrogating the requirements imposed by the underlying land
use district regulations.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.023 "A" AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses and structures shall be permitted
in the "A" Agricultural District:
      (1)   Any form of agriculture activity and related farm buildings, but
excluding animal feed lots and auction yards/barns;
      (2)   Site-built single-family dwellings;
      (3)   Orchards and tree farms;
      (4)   Public parks, recreation areas, open space, non-motorized trails;
and
      (5)   Utilities substations.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses. The following accessory uses, and structures
shall be permitted in the "A" Agricultural District:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted
uses and structures when established within the space limits of this district;
      (2)   Roadside stands for sales of agricultural products grown or
produced on the premises; and
      (3)   Signs conforming to §
151.062.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted by conditional
use permit in the "A" Agricultural District by the Board of Adjustment subject
to such requirements as the Board deems necessary to protect adjacent property,
prevent objectionable or offensive conditions and promote the health, safety,
and general welfare.
      (1)   Type I and Type II manufactured homes;
      (2)   Veterinary clinics with outside runs;
      (3)   Public or private stables and kennels with outside runs;
      (4)   Religious institutions, churches and/or cemeteries;
      (5)   Public buildings or facilities erected or established and operated
by any governmental agency;
      (6)   Utility substations, railroad, and other public utilities
facilities;
      (7)   Wireless communications towers;
      (8)   Commercial nurseries and greenhouses;
      (9)   Golf course and driving range;
      (10)   Game propagation areas;
      (11)   Privately operated outdoor recreational facilities, including
campsite;
      (12)   Telecommunication facilities;
      (13)   Home occupations (§
151.080); and
      (14)   Horticulture services.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. All uses and structures not specifically permitted by
permitted use, special permitted use, or conditional use shall be prohibited in
the "A" Agricultural District.
   (E)   Area/construction regulations. Minimum lot area, maximum building
height, maximum lot coverage and minimum yard requirements shall be regulated
in accordance with the following tables:
Table 151.023.1
 
                       Minimum lot area   Minimum lot width Maximum height
Single-family          43,560 square feet 75 feet           24 feet
residential
Towers or steeples                                          75 feet
Principal building     To be determined by the Board of
excluding tower or     Adjustment                           25 feet
steeple
Other conditional uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
 
Table 151.023.2
 
                 Minimum front yard Minimum rear yard Minimum side yard
                 Primary Secondary
Permitted uses   50 feet 30 feet    50 feet           30 feet
Conditional uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
 
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.024 "R" SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses and structures shall be permitted
in the "R" Single-Family Residential District:
      (1)   Site-built single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Modular homes;
      (4)   Type I manufactured homes (in a permitted manufactured home park);
      (5)   Public park and recreation areas including public swimming pools;
      (6)   Public and private schools;
      (7)   Public utilities and services required by the resident population;
and
      (8)   Multiple-family dwellings including condominiums and townhouses,
not to exceed eight units.
   (B)    Permitted accessory uses. The following accessory uses, and
structures shall be permitted in the "R" Single-Family Residential District:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted
uses in accordance with §
151.061;
      (2)   Signs conforming to §
151.062; and
      (3)   Detached accessory structure with 16-foot sidewalls, provided
written consent of all adjoining property owners is submitted with the
application.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted by conditional
use permit in the "R" Single-Family Residential District by the Board of
Adjustment, subject to such requirements as the Board deems necessary to
protect adjacent property, prevent objectionable or offensive conditions and
promote the health, safety, and general welfare.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (2)   Home occupations (See §
151.080);
      (3)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and homes for the aged. Any building
approved for such use shall be set back not less than 50 feet from the street
on which it fronts and shall have side and rear setbacks of not less than 30
feet and shall meet other requirements of this chapter;
      (4)   Licensed commercial daycare facilities and daycare homes caring for
children, provided that such facilities shall provide not less than 25 square
feet of floor area not including halls or bathrooms and outdoor recreation
space for each child. In addition, such facilities shall supply at least one
off-street parking space per six children cared for at the daycare home unless
the Board of Adjustment approves some other suitable plan for the loading and
unloading of children so as not to obstruct public streets or create other
traffic or safety hazards;
      (5)   Religious institutions and/or cemeteries;
      (6)   Public and private golf courses including clubhouses, community
center, and country club;
      (7)   Public buildings or facilities established and operated by a
governmental agency;
      (8)   Public and private swimming pools;
      (9)   Utility substations;
      (10)   Museums;
      (11)   Licensed residential treatment or group home;
      (12)   Hospitals, convalescent and nursing homes, supervised care
facilities and congregate housing;
      (13)   Water supply buildings, reservoirs, wells, elevated tanks and
similar essential public utility and service structures;
      (14)   Private storage buildings used exclusively for storage and not for
performance of any other services, provided siding consists of that customarily
used for site-built single-family dwellings. See §
151.082;
      (15)   Personal services operated in a structure occupied as a single-
family residence prior to October 9, 2024; and
      (16)   Contractor shop and yard in operation as of October 9, 2024.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. All uses and structures not specifically permitted by
permitted use, special permitted use, or conditional use shall be prohibited in
the "R" Single-Family Residential District."
Table 151.024.1
 
                 Minimum lot area Minimum lot Maximum height Maximum percent
                                  width                      lot coverage
Single-family    6,000 square     75 feet     24 feet        30%
residence        feet
Two dwelling     6,000 square     85 feet     24 feet        30%
units (DU)       feet
                 6,00 square feet
Three to four    (first DU);
dwelling units   1,000 square                 24 feet        30%
                 feet (each
                 additional DU)*  75 feet*
                 6,000 square
Greater than     feet (first DU);
four dwelling    1,000 square                 24 feet        30%
units            feet (each
                 additional DU)*
Conditional uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
*Maximum height for steeples and towers shall be 75 feet; anything over 45
feet requires a conditional use permit. Where individually owned, attached
single-family units (i.e., condominium, townhouse, duplex, etc.) are
constructed, minimum lot area, width, and coverage area are calculated on
the basis of the lot upon which the shared structure is constructed.
 
Figure 151.024.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-593.gif]
 
Table 151.024.2
 
                        Minimum front yard Minimum rear yard Minimum side yard
                        Primary Secondary
Permitted uses and two- 25 feet 15 feet    25 feet           7 feet*
family dwellings
Three to eight-family   25 feet 15 feet    25 feet           5 feet*
dwellings
Conditional uses        To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
*Upon subdivision into individual units, two-family dwellings will be allowed
one “shared” wall (required yard = zero feet) provided all other yard
requirements are met.
 
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.025 “C” COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses and structures shall be permitted
in the "C" Commercial District:
      (1)   Retail and wholesale sales;
      (2)   Finance, insurance and real estate services;
      (3)   Business services excluding any warehousing and storage services;
      (4)   Religious institutions, welfare and charitable services; business
associations, professional membership organizations, labor unions, and similar
labor organizations, and civic, social and fraternal associations;
      (5)   Eating establishments;
      (6)   Communication and utility uses;
      (7)   Public buildings and grounds;
      (8)   Service establishments;
      (9)   Professional, governmental and education services;
      (10)   Bar or tavern;
      (11)   Printing and publishing establishments;
      (12)   Offices;
      (13)   Parking lot and/or parking garages;
      (14)   Bed and breakfast;
      (15)   Hotels and motels;
      (16)   Theaters, bowling alleys, and pool halls;
      (17)   Fitness facilities, yoga studios, massage therapy; and
      (18)   Clinic.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses. The following accessory uses, and structures
shall be permitted in the "C" Commercial District.
      (1)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to permitted
uses; and
      (2)   Signs conforming to §
151.062.
   (C)   Special permitted uses. None.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The Board of Adjustment, subject to such
requirements, may permit the following uses as a conditional use in the "C"
Commercial District as the Board deems necessary to protect and promote the
health, safety, and general welfare:
      (1)   Apartments;
      (2)   Licensed daycare centers;
      (3)   On/off-sale liquor establishments;
      (4)   Lumberyards;
      (5)   Repair shops, gas and service stations;
      (6)   Car washes provided that their operative machinery is within an
enclosed structure and adequate drainage is provided;
      (7)   Second floor apartments;
      (8)   Nursing home;
      (9)   Assisted living center;
      (10)   Group home;
      (11)   Laundromat;
      (12)   Public and private hospitals;
      (13)   Public and private business or trade schools;
      (14)   Wholesale business;
      (15)   Bus depot; and
      (16)   Vehicle sales.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All uses and structures not specifically permitted by
permitted use, special permitted use, or conditional use shall be prohibited in
the "C" Commercial District.
   (F)   Area/construction regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the following
tables:
Table 151.025.1
 
                 Minimum lot area Minimum lot Maximum height Maximum percent
                                  width                      lot coverage
Permitted uses   2,640 square     22 feet     24 feet        75%
                 feet
Conditional uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
 
Figure 151.025.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-595.gif]
 
 
 
Table 151.025.2
 
            Minimu m front   Minimum rear yard         Minimum side yard
            yard
                             Adjacent to   Adjacent to Adjacent to   Adjacent to
            Frontage All     Industrial,   and shared  Industrial,   and shared
            on Main  other   Agricultural, with        Agricultural, with
            Street   streets or Commercial Residential or Commercial Residential
                             Districts     Districts   Districts     Districts
Permitted   10 feet  20 feet 15 feet       25 feet     15 feet       25 feet
uses
Conditional To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
uses
 
      (2)   All commercial buildings/structures shall be constructed on-site.
Off-site constructed or moved-in structures may be allowed only as a
conditional use.
      (3)   Screening. Where any use in the "C" Commercial District is adjacent
to any Residential Zone, that use (building, parking, or storage) shall be
appropriately screened from the Residential Use District by plantings or
fencing, except where plantings and/or fencing may be in conflict with §§
151.060 and
151.061.
      (4)   Block 4, Original Township, is exempt from the side yard
requirement except when a structure abuts a residential district. A commercial
building may be built to the lot line if after examination of the plans, it is
determined there is an acceptable firewall and the building is being built next
to another commercial building.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.026 "HC" HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   Highway Commercial is intended for land adjacent to Highway 240 south of
Interstate 90 and the east/west frontage/service road located between Glenn
Street and Stone Drive south of Interstate 90.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses and structures shall be permitted
in the "HC" Highway Commercial District:
      (1)   Horticulture and the raising of field crops;
      (2)   Vehicle service stations and vehicle repair not to include auto-
body repair;
      (3)   Utility substations;
      (4)   Wholesale or retail sales and warehouse;
      (5)   Hotel, motel, conference/banquet hall;
      (6)   New and used vehicle, recreational vehicle sales and farm equipment
and implement sales;
      (7)   Mortuaries and funeral homes;
      (8)   Truck or bus terminal;
      (9)   Offices and clinics;
      (10)   Eating or drinking establishment and bar/tavern;
      (11)   Electronic and appliance repair;
      (12)   Personal services;
      (13)   Car or truck wash, fuel station;
      (14)   Parking lot or parking garage;
      (15)   Hospital; and
      (16)   Religious institutions.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses. The following accessory uses, and structures
shall be permitted in the "HC" Highway Commercial District.
      (1)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to permitted
uses; and
      (2)   Signs conforming to §
151.062.
   (C)   Special permitted uses. None.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted by conditional
use permit in the "HC" Highway Commercial District by the Board of Adjustment
subject to such requirements, as the Board deems necessary to protect and
promote the health, safety, and general welfare.
      (1)   Assisted living, nursing, or convalescent home;
      (2)   Veterinary services and kennels;
      (3)   Light manufacturing;
      (4)   Public utility building and storage;
      (5)   Grain elevators and terminal;
      (6)   Bowling alley;
      (7)   Private and public recreational facilities;
      (8)   Butcher shop/meat locker;
      (9)   Private or commercial campground and recreation;
      (10)   Cannabis dispensary (See §
151.078);
      (11)   Contractor shop and yards;
      (12)   Communication towers or antenna over 45 feet in height;
      (13)   Public buildings or facilities erected or established and operated
by any governmental agency;
      (14)   Propane distribution facility;
      (15)   Convenience stores;
      (16)   Filling/service stations; and
      (17)   Signs on an otherwise vacant lot. See §
151.062.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. All uses and structures not specifically permitted by
permitted use, special permitted use, or conditional use shall be prohibited in
the "HC" District.
   (F)   Area/construction regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and
minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the following
tables:
Table 151.026.1
 
                 Minimum lot area Minimum lot Maximum height Maximum percent
                                  width                      lot coverage
Permitted uses   20,000 square    100 feet    24 feet        75%
                 feet
Conditional uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
 
Figure 151.026.1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-597.gif]
 
 
Table 151.026.2
 
                          Minimum rear yard         Minimum side yard
                          Adjacent to   Adjacent to Adjacent to   Adjacent to
            Minimum front Industrial,   and shared  Industrial,   and shared
            yard          Agricultural, with        Agricultural, with
                          or Commercial Residential or Commercial Residential
                          Districts     Districts   Districts     Districts
Permitted   25 feet       20 feet       35 feet     10 feet       35 feet
uses
Conditional To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
uses
 
      (2)   All commercial buildings/structures shall be constructed on-site.
Off-site constructed or moved-in structures may be allowed only as a
conditional use.
      (3)   Screening. Where any use in the "HC" Highway Commercial District is
adjacent to any Residential Zone, that use (building, parking, or storage)
shall be appropriately screened from the Residential Use District by plantings
or fencing, except where plantings and/or fencing may be in conflict with §
151.060.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.027 "I" INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses and structures shall be permitted
in the Industrial District:
      (1)   Ag biotechnology businesses;
      (2)   Architectural firms;
      (3)   Horticulture and raising crops;
      (4)   Basic services and utilities;
      (5)   Farm implement dealer and machinery repair services;
      (6)   Freighting or trucking yards or terminals;
      (7)   Medical or dental laboratories;
      (8)   Precision ag technologies;
      (9)   Service and repair shops/garages;
      (10)   Truck, trailer, equipment, rentals;
      (11)   Value-added ag businesses;
      (12)   Warehouses;
      (13)   Motor freight terminals, fuel stations, garaging and equipment
maintenance;
      (14)   Contractor shops and offices;
      (15)   Storage facilities, lumber yards, distributing stations and
warehouses;
      (16)   Wholesale business;
      (17)   Research facilities;
      (18)   Light manufacturing. Light assembly work, machine shops doing
assembling or shaping and light cutting and sampling with all phases of
manufacture, assembly and storage of materials performed indoors;
      (19)   Woodworking shops or facilities;
      (20)   Public utility buildings and storage;
      (21)   Public highway/public works garages;
      (22)   Vehicle garages, repair shops;
      (23)   Vehicle, truck, and machinery sales;
      (24)   Welding shops;
      (25)   Uses operated by a governmental entity;
      (26)   Grain elevator;
      (27)   Wholesale distributing companies, all commodities, except live
animals;
      (28)   Commercial communication towers and transmitters; and
      (29)   Auto and farm equipment service, storage, and/or body repair, not
to include salvage operation.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses. The following accessory uses and structures
shall be permitted in the Industrial District:
      (1)   Buildings and structures customarily incidental to permitted uses;
and
      (2)   Signs conforming to §
151.062.
   (C)   Special permitted uses. None.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted by conditional
use permit in the Light Industrial District by the Board of Adjustment, subject
to such requirements as the Board deems necessary to protect and promote the
health, safety, and general welfare:
      (1)   Meat processing establishments (meat locker);
      (2)   Communication towers over 45 feet in height;
      (3)   Contractor yards;
      (4)   Auto and truck wash;
      (5)   Bulk fuel, oil, and other liquid storage;
      (6)   Grain and feed milling;
      (7)   Parking lots and garages;
      (8)   Signs on an otherwise vacant lot (see §
151.066);
      (9)   Caretaker/watchman's quarters in accordance with §
151.081;
      (10)   Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of Paris manufacture;
      (11)   Distillation, coal, or tar asphalt;
      (12)   Fertilizer manufacture from organic material;
      (13)   Glue or adhesive manufacture;
      (14)   Paper manufacture;
      (15 )   Petroleum or asphalt refining;
      (16 )   Petroleum products terminal;
      (17 )   Storage or processing of raw hides or furs;
      (18 )   Animal hospital, pet shops, kennels; and
      (19 )   Railroad facilities.
   (E)    Prohibited uses. All uses and structures not specifically permitted
by permitted use, special permitted use, or conditional use shall be prohibited
in the "ID" Industrial District.
   (F)    Area/construction regulations.
       (1)    Minimum lot area, maximum building height, maximum lot coverage
and minimum yard requirements shall be regulated in accordance with the
following tables:
Table 151.027.1
 
                 Minimum lot area Minimum lot Maximum height Maximum percent
                                  width                      lot coverage
Permitted uses   10,000 square    75 feet     24 feet        75%
                 feet
Conditional uses To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
 
Figure 151.027.1
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-599.gif]
 
Table 151.027.2
 
                          Minimum rear yard         Minimum side yard
                          Adjacent to   Adjacent to Adjacent to   Adjacent to
            Minimum front Industrial,   and shared  Industrial,   and shared
            yard          Agricultural, with        Agricultural, with
                          or Commercial Residential or Commercial Residential
                          Districts     Districts   Districts     Districts
Permitted   25 feet       25 feet       35 feet     10 feet       35 feet
uses
Conditional To be determined by the Board of Adjustment
uses
 
      (2)   All commercial buildings/structures shall be constructed on-site.
Off-site constructed or moved-in structures may be allowed only as a
conditional use.
      (3)   Screening. All outdoor storage within 500 feet of a residential
district must be completely enclosed in a building or by a solid walled fence
at least two feet above the highest point of the stockpile which fence shall be
maintained in safe and good repair.
   (G)   Performance standards for "I" Zone; purpose. The guiding of urban
development to develop a compatible relationship of uses depends upon certain
standards being maintained. Uses permitted in the various districts;
conditional and accessory uses shall conform to the following standards. These
standards shall apply in the Industrial District.
      (1)   Noise. Any use established shall be so operated that no noise
resulting from said use is perceptible beyond the boundaries of that plat line
of the site on which such use is located. This standard shall not apply to
incidental traffic, parking, loading, construction, or maintenance operations.
      (2)   Odor. The emission of odorous matter in such quantities as to be
readily detectable at any point along lot lines or to produce a public nuisance
or hazard beyond lot lines is prohibited.
      (3)   Air pollution. State emission standards shall be met by all
possible sources of air pollution. In any case, there shall not be discharged
from any sources whatsoever such quantities of air contaminants, smoke or
detriment, nuisance or annoyance to any considerable number of persons or to
the public in general to endanger the comfort, health or safety of any such
considerable number of persons or have a natural tendency to cause injury or
damage to business, vegetation or property.
      (4)   Smoke and particulate matter. Any use established, enlarged or
remodeled after the effective date of this chapter shall be so operated as to
control the emission of smoke or particulate matter to the degree that it is
not detrimental to or shall endanger the public health, safety, comfort or
general welfare of the public. For purpose of grading the density of the smoke,
the Ringelmann Chart published and used by the United States Bureau of Mines
shall be employed. The emission of smoke shall not be a density greater than
number 2 on the Ringelmann Chart.
      (5)   Toxic or noxious matter. Any use established shall be so operated
as not to discharge across the boundaries of the lot or through percolation
into the subsoil beyond the boundaries of the lot wherein such use is located
toxic or noxious matter in such concentration as to be detrimental to or
endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare or cause injury or
damage to property or business.
      (6)   Vibration. Any use creating periodic earth-shaking vibrations, such
as may be created from a drop forge shall be prohibited if such vibrations are
perceptible beyond the lot line of the site on which the use is located. The
standard shall not apply to vibrations created during the process of
construction.
      (7)   Glare or heat. Any use requiring an operation producing an intense
heat or light transmission shall be performed with the necessary shielding to
prevent such heat or light from being detectable at the lot line of the site on
which the use is located. Lighting in all instances shall be diffused or
directed away from residentially zoned districts and public streets.
      (8)   Explosives. Any use requiring the storage utilization or
manufacturing of products which could decompose by detonation shall be located
not less than 400 feet from any residentially zoned district line provided that
this section shall not apply to the storage or usage of liquefied petroleum or
natural gas for normal residential or business purposes.
      (9)   Sewage and liquid wastes. No operation shall be carried on which
involves the discharge into a sewer, watercourse, river or the ground of liquid
wastes of any radio-active nature, or liquid wastes of chemical nature, which
are detrimental to normal sewage plant operations or corrosive or damaging to
sewer pipes and installations.
      (10)   Fire hazard. All flammable substances involved in any activity or
use, shall be handled in conformance with the standard of the National Board of
Fire Underwriters and any additional regulations that may from time to time be
adopted by the City Council.
      (11)   Physical appearance. All operations shall be carried on within an
enclosed building except new or operable equipment and waste materials stored
in enclosed containers, not readily visible from the street, may be displayed
or stored in the open.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.040 GENERAL.
   (A)   Permits required.
      (1)   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, or added to
without a permit issued by the Administrative Official. No permit shall be
issued by the Administrative Official except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter, unless a written order from the Board of Adjustment is issued
in the form of an administrative review, conditional use permit, or variance as
provided by this chapter.
      (2)   A permit shall be required whenever there is a structural change to
any structure. See §
151.044(C) through §
151.044(F) for further information on when a permit is needed.
   (B)   Applications. All applications for permits shall be accompanied by a
site plan drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to
be built upon; the exact sizes and locations of the lot and buildings already
existing, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or
alteration. The application shall include such other information necessary to
determine conformity with and provide for the enforcement of this chapter as
lawfully may be required by the Administrative Official.
   (C)   Issuance of permits. Permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Administrative Official authorize only the use,
arrangement, and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications. Any other use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
which has been
authorized shall be deemed violation of this chapter, and punishable as
provided by §
151.999.
   (D)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   The City Council shall by resolution establish a schedule of fees,
charges, and expenses and a collection procedure for building/use permits,
conditional use permits, variances, amendments, appeals, and other matters
pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees may be altered or amended only
by the City Council.
      (2)   The current fee schedule shall be available from the Administrative
Official. All fees shall be the property of the city and shall be paid over to
the City Finance Officer for credit to the general fund of the city, which
under no condition shall be refunded. Until all applicable fees, charges, and
expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or
appeal.
   (E)   Expiration of permits.
      (1)   If the work described in any building permit has not been
substantially completed within one year of the date of issuance thereof, said
permit shall expire and be canceled by the Administrative Official. Written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice
that further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed unless
and until a new permit has been obtained. A building/use permit may be extended
for a period of up to one year provided application is made prior to the
expiration of said permit.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified by the Board of Adjustment, any
variance, conditional use permit, or other use permit shall expire if actual
construction or occupancy of the land in accordance with the permit has not
occurred within two years from the date of issuance of the applicable use
permit or variance, or two years from the date of completion of any final
appeal to said decision (whichever is later).
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.041 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Establishment and purpose. The position of Administrative Official is
hereby established for the City of Wall. The Administrative Official shall be
appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of the City Council. Further, he
or she may be provided with the assistance of such persons as the City Council
may direct. The Administrative Official shall administer and assist City
Council with enforcing this chapter. It is the intent of this chapter that
questions of interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the
Administrative Official and that such questions shall be presented to the Board
of Adjustment only on appeal from the decision of the Administrative Official
and/or Planning Commission.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The powers and duties of the Administrative Official shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Review applications.
         (b)   Issue all building/use permits and make and maintain records
thereof.
         (c)   Revoke any permit, which was unlawfully issued, or any permit
wherein defective work has been performed, and when such work has not been
corrected.
         (d)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, and the use of
land to determine compliance with this chapter (with the assistance of the
Public Works Department and/or City Engineer if necessary).
         (e)   Notify in writing persons responsible for violations, indicating
the nature of the violation and ordering action necessary to correct.
         (f)   Order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or
structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions;
alterations or structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being
done; or shall take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure
compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
         (g)   Maintain permanent and current records of this regulation,
including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments, variances, appeals, and
applications.
         (h)   Provide public information relative to all matters arising out
of this chapter.
         (i)   Forward to the Planning Commission all applications for
amendments to this chapter.
         (j)   Forward to the Board of Adjustment, applications for appeals,
variances, conditional uses, or other matters on which the Board of Adjustment
is required to pass under this chapter.
         (k)   Initiate, direct, and review, from time to time, a study of the
provisions of this chapter, and to make such reports available to the Planning
Commission. The Administrative Official shall receive applications for building
permits, conditional uses, variances, and zoning amendments.
      (2)   For building/use permits, the Administrative Official shall issue
building/use permits only in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   For conditional uses and variances, the Administrative Official
shall review the application, and shall provide a review of the application to
the Board of Adjustment.
      (4)   For zoning amendments, the Administrative Official shall review the
application, and shall
provide a review of the application to the Planning Commission to make a
recommendation to City Council.
   (C)   Powers.
      (1)   If the Administrative Official shall find that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in
writing the persons responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of
the violation, and ordering the action necessary to correct it.
      (2)   The Administrative Official shall order discontinuance of illegal
use of land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings or
structures or of illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action
authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of
its provisions.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.042 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. A Board of Adjustment is hereby established. The Wall
City Council and Mayor shall act as Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Procedures for meetings. 
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct
of its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the
Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence
the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the public.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions. A draft of the unapproved, unofficial minutes will be
prepared and available for public inspection ten days following each meeting.
Upon adoption by the Board of Adjustment, all of which shall be a public record
and immediately filed in the office of the City Finance Officer of the City of
Wall, South Dakota.
      (3)   The Mayor (or in his or her absence, the Chairperson) may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. The Board
shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon
each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of the examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be public record.
   (C)   Powers and duties of Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment
shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged by the appellant that there is error in any order, requirement,
decision, determination, or refusal made by the Administrative Official in the
carrying out or enforcement of any provision of this chapter, and for the
interpretation of the zoning map.
      (2)   Conditional uses. To hear and decide only such conditional uses as
the Board of Adjustment is specifically authorized to pass on by the terms of
this chapter; to decide such questions as are involved in determining whether
conditional use permits should be granted; and to grant conditional use permits
with such conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under this chapter, or
to deny conditional use permits when not in harmony with the purpose and intent
of this chapter.
      (3)   Variances. To hear requests for variances from this chapter in
instances where strict enforcement would cause unnecessary hardship; and to
authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of this
chapter as which will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
would result in unnecessary hardship.
   (D)   Hearings; appeals; notice.
      (1)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment concerning interpretation or
administration of this chapter may be taken by any person meeting the
definition of an AGGRIEVED PERSON within this chapter or by any member of the
City Council affected by any decision of the Administrative Official. Such
appeals shall be taken by filing with the Administrative Official and with the
Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Administrative Official shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
on the appeal, give notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in the
same reasonable. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney.
   (E)   Stay of proceedings. Per SDCL § 11-4-20, "an appeal stays (stops or
suspends) all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the
Administrative Official from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of
Adjustment after the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by reason
of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
an imminent peril to life and property. In such case proceedings shall not be
stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of
Adjustment or by a court of record on application, on notice to the
Administrative Official from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown."
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.043 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   City Planning Commission created. There is hereby created a city
Planning Commission for the City of Wall, South Dakota and for land within its
corporate limits.
   (B)   Membership of the Planning Commission. The city Planning Commission
shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval
of the City Council. The members of this Planning Commission shall be resident
electors of the city qualified by knowledge or experience to act in matters
pertaining to the development and administration of a Comprehensive Plan for
development of the city. The commission shall not include more than two sitting
City Councilpersons.
   (C)   Terms of members.
      (1)   The term of each member of the Planning Commission shall be for
five years, except that when such Planning Commission is first appointed, two
members shall be appointed to serve a term of five years, two members shall be
appointed for a term of three years, and one member will be appointed for a
term of two years. Thereafter appointment of each member shall be for five
years so that there will be an overlapping of tenures.
      (2)   Any vacancy in a membership on the Planning Commission shall be
filled for the unexpired
term in the same manner as for appointment.
      (3)   The Mayor, with the confirmation of the City Council, shall, after
public hearing, have authority to remove any member of the Planning Commission
for cause, which cause shall be stated in
writing and made a part of the record of such hearing.
   (D)   Compensation. All members of the Planning Commission shall serve as
such without compensation, except for actual expenses, which shall be subject
to approval by the City Council.
   (E)   Organizations, rules, staff and finances.
      (1)   Upon appointment, the Planning Commission shall be called together
by the Mayor and shall organize by electing a Chairperson from among its
members for a term of one year with eligibility for re-election, and may fill
such other of its office as it may create in a manner prescribed by the rules
of such Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall meet as needed. Subject to the
approval of the City Council, it shall adopt such rules for transactions,
findings, and determinations which shall be a public record.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall each year on or about the first day
of January, make a report to the City Council of its proceedings, with a
statement of progress of its work during the preceding year including, at
minimum, the number of permits issued.
      (4)   Subject to the approval of the City Council, the Planning
Commission may employ such technical, engineering, clerical and other
assistance as may be deemed essential to carry on its work. Such employment
shall be governed by the same rules and regulations governing all other
municipal employees. The compensation of all such employees shall be fixed by
the City Council.
   (F)   Duties of Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall have the
following duties:
      (1)   Comprehensive Land Use Plan. To propose a plan for the physical
development of the city, including areas within its planning jurisdiction
which, in the commission's judgment bear relation to the planning of the
municipality.
      (2)   Zoning Ordinance. To develop and adopt a Zoning Ordinance for the
regulation of the height, area, bulk, location, and use of private and public
structures and premises, and of population density as may be provided by law
may be included as an adjunct to the Comprehensive Plan.
      (3)   Subdivision.
         (a)   To adopt regulations governing the subdivision of land within
its jurisdiction.
         (b)   To review proposals for subdivision to determine whether such
subdivisions comply with the Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Wall and make
recommendation relating to the approval of subdivisions.
      (4)   Amendments.
         (a)   The Planning Commission may from time to time propose
amendments, extensions, or additions to the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning
Ordinance, and subdivision regulations.
         (b)   To review and forward recommendation to the City Council
relating to amendments to the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance, and
subdivision regulations when initiated.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.044 PROCEDURES FOR APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Building/use permits.
      (1)   No new development, change of use, moving-in/moving-out of
structures, demolition, or other action which may be regulated by the
provisions of this chapter including use, height, number of occupants, lot
area, off-street parking or yard requirements, shall occur without a building
permit issued by the Administrative Official.
      (2)   Building permits issued based on plans and applications approved by
the Administrative Official authorize only the use, arrangement, or
construction set forth in such approved plans and specifications. Any use,
arrangement, or construction at variance without authorization shall be deemed
a violation of this regulation and shall be punishable as provided by this
regulation. The failure to obtain the necessary building permit shall be
punishable under this regulation.
         (a)   The landowner, or applicant on behalf of the landowner,
requesting the building/use permit shall complete an application for a
building/use permit, accompanied with the appropriate fee, available at the
city Finance Office. Completed applications shall be returned to the
Administrative Official for review. To be considered complete, the application
form shall be accompanied by the following additional items: applications for
building/use permits shall be accompanied by a site plan with the following
information indicated to determine compliance with this chapter:
            1.   A site plan, showing the size, shape, and dimensions of the
lot to be built upon, the exact size and location on the lot of all existing
buildings and structures, and the size and location on the lot of the structure
or building proposed to be repaired, altered, erected, or moved, and the size,
arrangement, number of parking stalls, movement of vehicles and ingress and
egress drives for all off-street parking and loading facilities.
            2.   The location of the said lot with respect to existing rights-
of-way and adjacent lots.
            3.   The applicant may be required to submit a survey of the
property, including the proposed site plan, by the Administrative Official to
determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
            4.   Any other information which the Administrative Official may
deem necessary for consideration in enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The applicant may be required to stake out the building site for
inspection by the Administrative Official prior to the issuance of the
building/use permit.
         (c)   One copy of the application shall be returned to the applicant
after the Administrative Official has marked such copy as either approved or
disapproved and attested to the same by signing said copy of the plans. The
Administrative Official, for city records, shall retain one copy of the
application, similarly marked.
         (d)   The Administrative Official shall then, if the application is
approved, issue a signed building/use permit. If the Administrative Official
determines the proposed action would not comply with the provisions of these
regulations, a building/use permit may not be issued, and the applicant may
then appeal the action of the Administrative Official to the Board of
Adjustment.
         (e)   Building/use permits are intended to be posted in a conspicuous
place upon the premises and visible from a public right-of-way at all times
from the beginning until completion of such
construction, alteration, or repair.
      (3)   All applications for a building permit shall be filed with the
Finance Office no less than 48 hours prior to a City Council meeting. All
applications for a building permit for new construction shall be accompanied by
plans and specifications showing all details of the construction, and a plat of
the lot or premises upon which the construction is to be located, showing its
location with reference to exterior boundary lines and streets. Such plat shall
be drawn to scale.
   (B)   Fees. The fee schedule for the issuance of a building permit can be
requested from the City Finance Office.
   (C)   When permits are required (residential).
      (1)   Building permits are required for the following:
         (a)   New construction;
         (b)   Additions and/or remodel of exterior;
         (c)   Relocation and/or moving of building or any structure;
         (d)   New fences or additions to any in existence;
         (e)   New steps, decks, patios, landings, entryways, etc. and/or
enlarging of those listed in existence;
      (2)   Building permits are required for the following and may be approved
by the Public Works Department (up to $5,000) and reviewed by the
Administrative Official after the fact;
         (a)   New steps, cement pads, decks, patios, landings, entryways,
cement or asphalt driveways or parking areas, etc. and/or enlarging of those
listed in existence;
         (b)   New sidewalks (note: ADA requirements will need to be followed);
and
         (c)   Building demolition (no building permit fee, a fee charged for
material disposal may apply for charges incurred by the city). Does not need to
be under $5,000.
   (D)   When permits are not required.
      (1)   Building permit applications that do not change the structure of a
building, sidewalk or driveway may be approved by the Public Works Director,
and work may begin upon approval.
      (2)   Applications that change the structure of a building, sidewalk,
driveway and all fences must be approved by the Administrative Official before
work shall begin.
      (3)   Should repairs other than routine be needed, an emergency meeting
of the applicable committee members: the Public Works Director, the Finance
Office, and the Mayor may be called. Construction or repairs other than
emergencies are to be resolved at regular Council meetings.
      (4)   Building permits are not required for the following:
         (a)   Siding replacement of the same type;
         (b)   Window replacement of the same size;
         (c)   Roof replacement of the same material;
         (d)   Fence repair/maintenance of the same material;
         (e)   Step, patio, and entryway replacement of the same size;
         (f)   Replacement and/or repair for maintenance of sidewalks, cement
pad, cement or asphalt driveways or parking areas with no changes to the
existing size; or
         (g)   Remodel interior of existing structure.
      (5)   The assessment of fines will be at the discretion of the Wall City
Council.
   (E)   When permits are required (commercial). Building permits are required
for the following and shall be approved by the Administrative Official.
      (1)   New construction;
      (2)   Additions and/or remodel of exterior;
      (3)   Relocation and/or moving of building or any structure;
      (4)   New fences or additions to any in existence;
      (5)   New steps, decks, patios, landings, entryways, etc.; replacement of
the same size, and/or enlarging of those listed in existence;
      (6)   Advertising signs (see §
151.062 for sign regulations);
      (7)   New cement pads, cement or asphalt driveways or parking areas;
      (8)   New sidewalks (note: ADA requirements will need to be followed);
and
      (9)   Building demolition (no building permit fee, a fee charged for
material disposal may apply for charges incurred by the city).
   (F)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses are allowed for certain uses in
some districts, as identified in §§
151.020 through
151.027. Uses not listed in §§
151.020 through
151.027 as eligible for a conditional use permit shall not, in any
circumstances, be granted a conditional use permit. The following procedure for
requesting a conditional use permit shall be followed:
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adhere to the following procedure in
considering a conditional use permit. A conditional use permit is intended by
this chapter to be granted by the Board of Adjustment provided:
         (a)   A written application for a conditional use permit is submitted,
indicating the section of this chapter under which the conditional use permit
is sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested.
         (b)   Property owners adjacent to the proposed site shall be notified
of the conditional use permit request by certified mail, at the cost of the
applicant.
         (c)   Notice of hearing shall be published once, not less than ten
days prior to the Board of Adjustment public hearing, in a paper of general
circulation in the area affected.
         (d)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in
person, or by agent or attorney.
         (e)   The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that it is
empowered under the section of this chapter described in the application to
grant the conditional use permit, and that the granting of the conditional use
permit will not adversely affect the public interest.
         (f)   The granting of any conditional use permit, by the Board of
Adjustment shall be based upon written findings certifying compliance with the
specific rules governing individual conditional use permits and that
satisfactory provision and arrangements have been made concerning the
following, where applicable:
            1.   Access.
               i.   The roads providing access to the property shall be
determined to be adequate to meet the transportation demands of the proposed
conditional use. The Board of Adjustment may require the applicant to enter
into a written contract with the applicable road authority regarding the
upgrading and continued maintenance of any roads used for conditional use
requested prior to issuance of a conditional use permit.
               ii.   Reasonable provisions have been made for safe vehicular
and pedestrian entrance and exit of the property for daily and emergency
traffic.
            2.   Parking and internal traffic.
               i.   The parking areas and driveways will be covered in
materials appropriate for the internal traffic generated by the use.
               ii.   The number of parking spaces is appropriate for the
proposed use of the property.
            3.   Utilities and refuse.
               i.   The manner by which electricity, water, sewer, natural gas
and other utilities will be provided has been described.
               ii.   Consideration has been given to the location of refuse and
service areas and manner for disposing of trash, junk, or other debris.
            4.   Screening, buffering, and open space. The type, dimensions,
and character of any fences, walls, hedges, or other materials used for
screening; and/or open space is appropriate for the proposed use in reference
to the specific property.
            5.   Lighting.
               i.   Lights associated with the use will not create a nuisance
nor distract traffic.
               ii.   Brightness, intensity, glare of lights will be similar to
lighting which would be customarily used for permitted uses in the applicable
zoning district.
            6.   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other
properties in the district.
               i.   Any use listed as a conditional use is generally compatible
in the district it is listed in.
               ii.   General compatibility is used when prescribing conditions
for approval of a permit.
      (2)   In granting any conditional use permit the Board of Adjustment may
prescribe conditions and safeguards in conformity with this regulation.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards may result in revocation of the
permit. Violation of such conditions, when made a part of the terms under which
the conditional use permit is granted, shall further be deemed a violation of
this regulation and punishable under the terms of the City of Wall Zoning
Ordinance.
      (3)   The concurring vote of a majority of the present and voting members
of the Board of Adjustment is required to pass any application for a
conditional use permit. If no work has commenced, unless otherwise specified by
the Board of Adjustment, a conditional use permit shall expire two years from
the date upon which the conditional use permit becomes effective or two years
following completion of any final appeal of the decision of the Board of
Adjustment to issue the permit.
   (G)   Variances. The purpose of the variance is to modify the strict
application of the specific requirements of this chapter in the case of
exceptionally irregular, narrow, shallow or steep lots, or other exceptional
physical conditions, whereby such strict application would result in practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship which would deprive an owner of the
reasonable use of his or her land. The variance shall be used only where
necessary to overcome some obstacle which is preventing an owner from using his
or her lot as the Zoning Ordinance intended. After written denial of a building
permit from the Administrative Official, a property owner may make application
to the Board of Adjustment for a variance. The Board of Adjustment shall make
its decision within 30 days of submittal. A variance shall not be granted by
the Board of Adjustment unless and until:
      (1)   A written application for a variance is submitted, indicating the
section of this chapter under which the variance is sought and stating the
grounds on which it is requested.
      (2)   Property owners adjacent to the proposed site shall be notified of
the variance request by
certified mail and/or provide signature of their approval at the expense of the
applicant.
      (3)   Notice of hearing shall be published once, ten days prior to the
Board of Adjustment public hearing, in a paper of general circulation in the
area affected.
      (4)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person,
or by agent or attorney.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that it is empowered
under the section of this chapter described in the application to grant the
variance, and that the granting of the variance will not adversely affect the
public interest. A variance from the terms of this chapter shall only be
granted if all the following are demonstrated by the applicant:
         (a)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure or building involved, and which are not
applicable to other land, structures, or buildings in the same district;
         (b)   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this chapter;
         (c)   That the special conditions and circumstance do not result from
the actions of the applicant;
         (d)   Financial disadvantage of the property owner is not being used
to constitute conclusive proof of unnecessary hardship within the purposes of
zoning;
         (e)   That granting the variance request will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district; and
         (f)   No non-conforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or
buildings in the same district, and no permitted or non-conforming use of
lands, structures, or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds
for the issuance of a variance.
      (6)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and punishable under §
151.999.
      (7)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in the
district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this chapter in said district.
      (8)   The concurring vote of two-thirds of present and voting members of
the Board of Adjustment is required to pass any application for variance.
      (9)   If no work has commenced, unless otherwise specified by the Board
of Adjustment, a variance shall expire one year from the date upon which the
variance becomes effective or one year following completion of any final appeal
of the decision of the Board of Adjustment to issue the variance.
   (H)   Procedures for approval of special permitted use permit. The City of
Wall does not allow special permitted uses.
   (I)   Board has powers of Administrative Official on appeals: reversing
decision of Administrative Official.
      (1)   It is the intent if this chapter that all questions of
interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the Administrative
Official, and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment
only on appeal from the decision of the Administrative Official.
         (a)   All appeals filed in accordance with §
151.044(J) relating to a particular action, decision, or property shall be
consolidated and heard at the same hearing.
         (b)   Administerial acts or other preliminary acts to bring an
application or matter before the Board may not be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment.
      (2)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Board of Adjustment
may, so long as such action is in conformity with the terms of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement,
decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have the
powers of the Administrative Official from whom the appeal is taken.
      (3)   The concurring vote of two-thirds of the full membership of the
Board of Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the Administrative Official, or to decide in
favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under
this chapter, or to affect any variation in the application of this chapter.
   (J)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any
decision of the Board of Adjustment may present to a court of record a petition
duly verified, setting forth that the decision is illegal, in whole or in part,
specifying the grounds of the illegality. The petition shall be presented to
the court within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
City Finance Officer.
      (2)   Upon the presentation of such petition the court may allow a writ
of certiorari directed to the Board to review such decision of the Board. The
Board shall be required to turn over to the court certified copies of all
papers acted on by it, and any other information as may be pertinent and
material to show the grounds of the decision appealed from. If upon the
hearing, it shall appear to the court that testimony is necessary for the
proper disposition of the matter, it may take evidence or appoint a referee to
take evidence, which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the
determination of the court shall be made. The court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the decision brought up for review.
      (3)   Costs shall not be allowed against the Board unless it shall appear
to the court that the Board acted with gross negligence or in bad faith or with
malice in making the decision appealed from.
   (K)   Zoning amendments.
      (1)   Whenever the public necessity, safety, and general welfare or good
zoning practices justifies such action, and after consideration and
recommendation by the City Planning Commission, as provided herein, the City
Council may change zoning district boundaries, use groups, or the regulations
established by this chapter. A proposed change of zoning district boundaries or
regulations may be initiated in the following manners:
         (a)   The City Council may direct the Planning Commission, to consider
a change of zoning district boundaries or regulations;
         (b)   The Planning Commission may initiate a change of zoning district
boundaries or regulations;
         (c)   One or more of the owners of property within the area proposed
to be rezoned may present a request to change the zoning district boundaries;
or
         (d)   Initiated petitions specifying and requesting amendments to the
regulations of this chapter containing signatures of 20% of the landowners in
the zoning district or districts may be presented to the Administrative
Official.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided for in these regulations, any change in
these regulations, shall require City Council approval of an ordinance
describing said changes. The City Council may not consider said ordinance until
the Planning Commission has delivered a recommendation to act upon said
ordinance amendment.
      (3)   The following procedure for requesting a zoning amendment or zoning
district boundary change shall be followed:
         (a)   The landowner or other person(s) requesting the amendment/
boundary change shall complete an application, available from the
Administrative Official. Completed applications shall be returned to the
Administrative Official for review. To be considered by the Planning Commission
and City Council, the application form shall be completed and shall be
accompanied by the following items:
            i.   Any required attachments and fees, including mail costs; and
            ii.   Any additional information, as requested by the
Administrative Official, as lawfully may be required to determine conformance
with and provide for enforcement of this chapter.
            iii.   The Administrative Official shall review the application,
and shall forward a summary of the application, and his/her comments regarding
said application, to the Planning Commission for their review.
            iv.   The Administrative Official shall set the date, time, and
place for a joint public hearing to be held by the Planning Commission and City
Council. The Administrative Official shall publish notice of the public hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation in the area affected by the proposed
amendment; such notice shall be published not less than ten days prior to the
public hearing. If the proposed amendment will change the boundaries of a
zoning district, the Administrative Official shall notify all owners of
property within 250 feet of the proposed boundary change, by mail at the
expense of the applicant, at least ten days before the public hearing.
            v.   The public hearing shall be held. Any person may appear in
person, or by agent or attorney. Minutes of the public hearing shall be
recorded and kept in the records of the Planning Commission.
            vi.   The Planning Commission shall either recommend or not
recommend approval of the amendment to the City Council.
            vii.   The City Council shall either approve or not approve the
ordinance describing the proposed changes to these zoning regulations, in
accordance with standard procedures for reading, approval, publication, and
effective date.
            viii.   When the City Council approves a proposed amendment
affecting the zoning classification of property, affected property owners may
file a written protest to stop such an amendment from taking effect. If the
protest meets the following standard, such amendment shall not become effective
unless the amendment is approved by two-thirds of the City Council (SDCL § 11-
4-23).
         (b)   Protest standard. The protest shall be signed by at least 40% of
the owners of equity in the parcels in the area affected by the amendment, and
the parcels or parts of parcels within 250 feet of the area affected by the
amendment.
   (L)   Reapplication. No application requesting a variance, conditional use,
or Zoning Ordinance amendment or district classification change on any property
whose application includes any such property either entirely or substantially
the same as that which has been denied by the Board of Adjustment (variances,
conditional uses) or City Council (zoning amendments, zoning district boundary
changes), shall again be considered by the Planning Commission, Board of
Adjustment or City Council before the expiration of four months from the date
of the final action of the Planning Commission, Board of Adjustment, or City
Council.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 151.060 FENCES.
   No person shall erect or maintain within the city, a fence, hedge, or wall,
unless it meets the following conditions:
   (A)   Be constructed and maintained at a height in any area where such
structure will not obstruct a clear vision of intersecting roadways or
otherwise constitute a traffic hazard;
   (B)   No fencing is allowed along the perimeter of the front yard;
   (C)   Be six feet or less in height when located in a back yard or side yard
(when a corner lot is involved);
   (D)   No barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically charged fence
shall be erected or maintained;
   (E)   Be constructed and maintained in good condition so as to serve the
purpose for which such structure was originally constructed, so that it shall
not be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals, so that it shall not
become unsightly to the neighborhood or otherwise constitute a nuisance;
   (F)   The smooth finished side of a fence shall be the side of the fence
that faces outward from the yard being fenced. All of the framing or support
members shall face the property owner (inward);
   (G)   The installation of a fence shall be in a manner as to which access to
the city for the purposes of reading or maintaining utility meters is provided;
   (H)   Prior to the construction of any such fence, it will be required that
whoever is constructing such fence obtain a building permit from the city;
   (I)   The use of boxes, sheet metal, old or decayed wood, broken masonry
blocks or other like unsightly materials to build a fence, hedge or wall is
prohibited; and
   (J)   Fencing around athletic facilities and public property shall be exempt
from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.061 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Only specifically authorized accessory uses allowed; accessory uses
must be subordinate to principal use.
   (B)   No accessory use shall be permitted in any district unless such use is
specifically authorized by this chapter. No accessory use shall be deemed to be
authorized by this chapter unless such use is in fact subordinate to and on the
same zoning lot with the principal use in conjunction with which it is
maintained.
   (C)   No accessory structure or use may be located in a required front or
side yard.
   (D)   No accessory building may be used for residential dwelling purposes at
any time.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.062 SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.
   These conditions are established as a reasonable and impartial method of
regulating advertising structures in order to ensure safe construction, to
reduce hazards at intersections, and to protect property values of the entire
community. The regulations for signs and other advertising structures are
indicated as follows:
   (A)   Signs may be permitted in the residential districts upon review by the
City Council.
   (B)   In any zoning district where signs are permitted, the following
general regulations shall apply:
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location whereby
reason of its position, wording, illumination, size, shape, or color, it may
obstruct, interfere with the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic control sign, signal, or device. No sign shall be erected in any
position where it obstructs or physically interferes with the driver's view of
approaching, merging or intersecting traffic.
      (2)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 50 feet of any
residential property unless the illumination of such sign is so designed that
it does not shine or reflect light onto such property.
      (3)   To insure federal and state requirements are met, no stationary
sign shall be erected without approval by the governing board.
      (4)   No advertising sign shall be located in any area designated by the
City Council as one of scenic beauty or historical interest.
      (5)   A permanent sign shall not be suspended across public streets or
other public places, except as permitted by the City Council.
      (6)   No signs, including political signs, shall be placed in any public
right-of-way except publicly owned signs, such as traffic control signs.
      (7)   No signs shall be placed on utility poles.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.063 PARKING.
   (A)   Provision and maintenance required. No land shall be used or occupied;
no structure shall be erected, altered, used, or occupied; and no use shall be
operated unless off-street parking facilities, in at least the amount herein
required, are provided or available, and maintained in the manner herein set
forth. Provided for uses existing on the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter shall not be reduced below the requirements of this
chapter. Off-street parking facilities shall be provided and maintained as
required in this chapter for any addition to or the extension or enlargement of
a use of land or building which existed on the effective date of said chapter.
The provision and maintenance of the off- street parking facilities herein
required shall be the joint and several responsibility of the operator and
owner of the use and the operator or owner of the land on which, or the
structure in which, is located.
   (B)   Size and location. Each off-street parking space shall be an area of
appropriate dimensions, of not less than 300 square feet including access and
maneuvering space. Except as otherwise permitted under a special plan for
location or sharing of facilities, off-street parking facilities shall be
located on the building site on which the use or structure for which they are
provided is located.
   (C)   Maintenance. Off-street parking facilities shall be constructed,
maintained and operated in accordance with the following specifications:
      (1)   Drainage and surfacing. They shall be properly graded for drainage,
adequately surfaced and maintained in good condition, free of weeds, dust,
trash and debris.
      (2)   Lighting. Facilities shall be so arranged that the source of light
is concealed from public view and from adjacent residential properties and does
not interfere with traffic.
      (3)   Entrances and exits. They shall be provided with entrances and
exits so located as to minimize traffic congestion.
      (4)   Prohibition of other uses. They shall not be used for the sale,
repair, dismantling or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials or
supplies.
      (5)   No fee may be charged for off-street parking as required under this
chapter.
   (D)   Combined facilities. The off-street parking facilities required of two
or more uses located on the same building site may be combined and used
jointly; provided, however, that where the facilities are combined and used
jointly by two or more uses having different standards for determining the
amount of facilities required, the off-street parking facilities shall be
adequate in area to provide the sum total of the facilities required of all
such uses; provided, further, that where the standard for determining the
amount of facilities required, of all such uses, for the purpose of this
chapter, shall be considered as a single unit in determining the amount of off-
street parking facilities required.
   (E)   Off-street parking facilities. At least the following amounts of off-
street parking facilities shall be provided. The classification of uses shall
be deemed to include and apply to all uses, and if the classification of any
use for the purpose of determining the amount of off-street parking facilities
to be provided is not readily determinable hereunder, the classification of the
use shall be fixed by the Administrative Official.
      (1)   Dwellings, multiple-family: one and one-half spaces per dwelling
unit.
      (2)   Hotels, motels, rooming houses, tourist courts: one space per guest
room.
      (3)   Mobile home parks: two spaces per mobile home unit.
      (4)   For all other uses, the amount of off-street parking shall be
approved by the City Council.
   (F)   Special plan for location or sharing of facilities. Part or all of the
required off-street parking facilities may be located on a site other than the
site occupied by use or structure for which the parking is being provided if
the following procedures are followed. Also, two or more uses may share the
same off- street parking facilities if a special plan application is approved.
      (1)   Application. An application shall be filed with the Finance Officer
and shall include plans showing the location and other information deemed
necessary by the City Council.
      (2)   Review. Applications shall be reviewed by the City Council and
approved or disapproved within 90 days.
      (3)   Registration. The special plan, upon approval, shall be registered
among the records of the Finance Officer.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.064 STRUCTURES TO HAVE ACCESS.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a
public street, or with access to private streets approved by the Board of
Adjustment, and all structures shall be so located on lots as to provide safe
and convenient access for services, fire protection and required off-street
parking.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.065 YARDS.
   (A)   No part of a yard or other open space, or off-street parking or
loading space required or in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this chapter, shall be included as part of a yard, open space,
or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building.
   (B)   Yards, reduction in size. No yard or lot existing at the time of
passage of this chapter shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth herein. Yards and lots created after the effective date
of this chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by
this chapter.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.066 ERECTION OF MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE ON A LOT.
   In any district, unless authorized by the Board of Adjustment in granting a
conditional use permit, or in the case of more than multiple-family dwelling on
a single lot in the appropriate zoning district(s), only one structure housing
is permitted or permissible principal use may be erected on a single lot,
provided that yard and other requirements are met.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.067 PRIVATE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS (SEPTIC TANKS).
   (A)   All existing septic tanks shall be considered non-conforming uses on
lots within 200 feet of the city sanitary sewer system. All structures which
are used for human habitation, commercial and industrial use and located on
lots within 200 feet of the city sanitary sewer system must be connected to the
city sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Private wastewater treatment systems (septic tanks) may be used for
applicable structures on lots located greater than 200 feet from the city
sanitary sewer system, provided the property owner agrees to pay for
replacement of the wastewater system by connecting it to the city sanitary
sewer system upon request, if and when the city sanitary sewer system becomes
located within 200 feet of the lot. Private wastewater systems shall be
installed in accordance with the rules of the South Dakota Department of
Agriculture and Natural Resources.
   (C)   These requirements may be waived at the discretion of the City Council
in the event that connection to the city's sanitary sewer system would result
in the construction of a lift station.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.068 MANUFACTURED HOME PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Modular homes. Modular homes are completely fabricated and assembled
(partly) units or elements delivered to and erected on site to form a whole, or
part of a structure and shall meet the following regulations.
      (1)   Modular homes shall meet or exceed International Building Codes.
      (2)   Modular homes will include all off-site constructed homes, which
may be transported to the site in one or more sections.
      (3)   Modular homes shall have more than 1,000 square feet in ranch style
and 850 square feet split and be placed on a permanent foundation. The
foundation shall be to a depth below the frostline.
      (4)   Modular homes shall not have attached running gear and a trailer
hitch or the capacity to have attached running gear and trailer hitch.
      (5)   Modular homes shall have a minimum of three and one-half-roof
pitch.
      (6)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences.
      (7)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences.
   (B)   Type I and Type II manufactured homes.
      (1)   For the purpose of this chapter, manufactured homes will be
regulated by type. Two types of homes are defined under these regulations.
         (a)   Type I manufactured home shall:
            i.   Be a dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site manufacturing
facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a seal
certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Code.
            ii.   Have more than 1,000 square feet of occupied space in a
double-section or larger multi-section unit.
            iii.   The running gear and hitch have been removed.
            iv.   Has been anchored to a foundation and permanent footing below
the frost line.
               1.   The foundation shall be an approved wood basement
constructed of two-by-six framework and treated with water resistant materials;
or a foundation shall be constructed with eight inches of poured concrete or
concrete block.
               2.   The footing to be a minimum of eight-inches thick by 16-
inches wide poured concrete with top of footing to be 16-inches below grade.
               3.   Type I manufactured homes which are not placed on a
permanent foundation are considered Type II manufactured homes. (See division
(B)(1)(b)).
            v.   Have a gabled roof with a pitch of at least three-twelfths
feet.
            vi.   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences.
            vii.   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences.
            viii.   The manufactured house may not exceed ten years from the
date of manufacture.
         (b)   Type II manufactured home shall:
            i.   Have more than 700 square feet of occupied space in a single,
double, expanded or multi-section unit.
            ii.   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in division (B)(2)(b).
            iii.   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with manufacturer's
specifications, or as prescribed by the Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Code.
            iv.   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences.
            v.   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences.
            vi.   Have a gabled roof with a pitch of at least three-twelfths
feet.
            vii.   The manufactured house may not exceed ten years from the
date of manufacture.
            viii.   Be place onto a support system. In accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified in division (B)(2).
      (2)   Installation standards.
         (a)   Permanent perimeter enclosure as required for Type I and II
manufactured homes. Those manufactured homes designated in this chapter, as
requiring a permanent perimeter enclosure must have footings and crawl space or
basement walls. The space between the floor joists of the home shall be
completely enclosed with the permanent perimeter enclosure (except for required
openings).
         (b)   Foundation siding/skirting. All manufactured homes without a
permanent perimeter enclosure shall have an approved foundation siding/skirting
enclosing the entire perimeter of the home.
         (c)   Support system.
            i.   All HUD-code manufactured homes of the Type I classification
shall be installed with load bearing foundations in conformance with the
manufacturer's installation specifications.
            ii.   Type II manufactured homes not placed on a permanent
foundation shall be installed on a support system in conformance with the
manufacturer's installation specifications or with the support system’s
regulations in the ANTI/NFPA 501A 1977 installation standards.
      (3)   Non-conforming homes. A manufactured home placed and maintained on
a tract of land and deemed to be a legal non-conforming use prior to the
adoption of this chapter shall continue to be a legal non-conforming use. If
the non-conforming use is discontinued for a period of one year, the land
thereafter must be used in conformity with all provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Structural alteration. Due to its integral design, the
Administrative Official after it is placed on the site must approve any
exterior structural alteration or modification of a manufactured home.
      (5)   Variance from maximum age requirement. Type I and Type II
manufactured homes may receive a variance from the maximum age requirement
(division (B)). The Board of Adjustment may grant a variance if the
manufactured home meets the following requirements:
         (a)   The applicant shall provide a photograph of the manufactured
home's exterior and interior.
         (b)   That it shall have been shown to the satisfaction of the
Administrative Official that the said manufactured home complies with the gas,
plumbing, electrical, and construction requirements of the City of Wall.
         (c)   That the applicant shall obtain the written consent of all
property owners owning property immediately adjacent (excluding streets and
alleys) to the proposed building site.
   (C)   Manufactured home park minimum standards. Manufactured home parks
shall meet the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Streets. Each manufactured home shall abut or face a public or
private roadway or street, such roadway or street having an all-weather surface
of at least 30 feet in width where parking is permitted on both sides, and 26
feet in width where parking is restricted to one side only. Where private
streets are proposed, they shall have a minimum right-of-way of 40 feet.
      (2)   Open space or buffer zone. A landscape buffer area of ten feet in
width shall be provided and maintained around the perimeter of the park, except
where walks and drives penetrate the buffer.
      (3)   Lot area. Each lot provided for the occupancy of a single
manufactured home unit shall not be less than 50 feet in width and have an area
of not less than 5,500 square feet, and the same shall be defined by markers at
each corner.
      (4)   Density. No park shall be permitted an average net density of
manufactured home lots of more than seven units per acre and each park shall
provide an area of not less than two acres. Any permit allowing a manufactured
home court shall require the development of a minimum of ten sites within
twelve months from the date of issuance of permit.
      (5)   Spacing and yard requirements. All manufactured housing units will
be positioned on the manufactured home space in compliance and accordance with
the zoning requirements at the time of establishment of the manufactured home
park. Manufactured home parks established after the effective date of this
chapter, will comply with the following:
         (a)   Front yard. All manufactured homes shall be located at least 20
feet from any road or street. The distance will be measured from the wall of
the structure to the street or roadway at the closest point.
         (b)   Side and rear yards. All manufactured homes shall have minimum
side yards of seven feet and a minimum rear yard of ten feet.
         (c)   Exceptions to minimum yard requirements.
            i.   A garage, canopy, or carport may project into a required side
or rear yard provided it is located no closer than ten feet to another
manufactured home garage, canopy, carport, or addition thereto, and provided
further that the maximum depth be 24 feet.
            ii.   A deck may project into a required side or rear yard provided
it is located no closer than four feet to any other structure.
            iii.   An enclosed vestibule containing not more than 40 square
feet in area may project into a required yard for a distance not to exceed four
feet, but in no event closer than ten feet to another manufactured home,
garage, canopy, carport, or addition thereto.
            iv.   Detached accessory buildings with a projected room area of
not more than 120 square feet may project into a required side or rear yard
provided it is located no closer than four feet to another structure or right-
of-way.
         (d)   Maximum lot coverage. No manufactured home shall occupy more
than 25% of the area of the lot on which it is situated.
      (6)   Parking. Two off-street vehicle parking spaces shall be provided
for each manufactured home. Such off-street parking spaces shall be set aside
in a location convenient to the occupants of the manufactured home and shall
have ingress and egress by means of a public way. Where parking areas are
provided adjacent to a public street, ingress and egress thereto shall be made
accessible only through driveways or openings not exceeding 25 feet in width in
the curb line of said street.
      (7)   Refuse collection. If individual refuse collection is not
available, one refuse collection station shall be provided, with a minimum of
one two-yard dumpster situated on concrete, screened on four sides, for each 12
families or fractions thereof, conveniently located to serve tenants not more
than 150 feet from any trailer unit served, and to be conveniently located for
collection.
      (8)   Recreation area. The developer of the manufactured home park shall
be required to dedicate no less than 8% of the gross site area shall to
recreational facilities appropriate to the needs of the occupants. The Planning
Commission shall approve the designated recreation area.
      (9)   On-site management. Each manufactured home park may be required to
provide on- site management, by the owner or his or her representative. This
requirement may be waived if a point of contact is established to ensure that
the management, repairs, maintenance, and janitorial work connected with the
manufactured home park and all provisions of this chapter are complied with.
      (10)   Water supply and distribution system and sewage disposal. Each
manufactured home shall be connected to the city sanitary sewer and water
system.
      (11)   Tie down requirements. All manufactured homes, regardless of
location, unless such manufactured homes are securely anchored to a permanent
foundation approved by the Administrative Official, shall be anchored to the
ground, in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications or as prescribed
by the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code.
      (12)   Maximum age limitation. No manufactured home placed within a
manufactured home park within the city limits of Wall may exceed ten years from
the date of manufacture.
      (13)   Expansion. Existing manufactured home parks may be extended to a
total area of no less than two acres provided the area of expansion complies
with all other regulations herein set forth.
      (14)   Building/moved-in building permit required. Whenever a
manufactured home is moved into a manufactured home park, a permit from the
Administrative Official shall be required.
      (15)   Skirting. All manufactured homes, regardless of location, unless
such manufactured homes are securely anchored to a permanent foundation,
approved by the Administrative Official, shall be skirted within 30 days of
placement.
      (16)   Storm shelter. Management shall provide or make arrangements for
suitable storm shelter for the residents of the park.
   (D)   Application procedure. Each application for a manufactured home park
shall be accompanied by a development plan incorporating the regulations
established herein. The plan shall be drawn to scale and indicate the
following:
      (1)   The following requirements pertain to a manufactured home park:
         (a)   Location and topography of the proposed manufactured home park,
including adjacent property owners and proximity to federal and state highways,
and county, township, and city roads/streets;
         (b)   Property lines and square footage of the proposed park;
         (c)   Location and dimensions of all easements and right-of ways;
         (d)   Proposed general layout, including parking and recreation areas;
         (e)   General street and pedestrian walkway plan; and
         (f)   General utility, water, and sewer plan.
      (2)   Upon approval of the application, the plan becomes part of the
permanent record, and it shall serve as the basis for the final site plan
submission.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.069 PERMANENT FOUNDATIONS REQUIRED FOR DWELLINGS.
   No dwelling shall be constructed, installed, or moved into the area under
the jurisdiction of these regulations, unless said dwelling is constructed
upon, installed on, or moved onto a permanent foundation, as defined in these
regulations. Exempted from this requirement are manufactured homes in an
approved manufactured home park, provided said manufactured homes are anchored
with tie downs to prevent the manufactured home from dangerous motion during
high wind or other weather-related events.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.070 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   No structure, building or addition thereto shall be erected over or across
any existing public utility or upon any platted easement.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.071 MOVED-IN BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to move any house or other building onto any lot or to
any new location within the city unless and until a permit to do so has been
obtained from the Administrative Official. No permit shall be issued until the
following requirements are met.
   (A)   The fee for said permit as prescribed in the fee schedule, shall have
been paid.
   (B)   Before any house or other structure is moved onto a vacant lot, the
Planning Commission shall report to the City Council whether the structure will
be compatible with other development in the area. If the City Council concurs
with the decision of the Planning Commission that a structure would depreciate
the area into which it is to be moved, it may withhold issuance of a permit for
such relocation. The applicant shall submit photographs taken from two or more
angles of the structure to be moved and photos of the lot on which the
structure is to be located together with adjacent lots and structures. These
requirements do not apply to construction sheds or other temporary structures
to be located on a lot for 18 months or less.
   (C)   That it shall have been shown to the satisfaction of the
Administrative Official that the said house or other building complies with the
gas, plumbing, electrical, and construction requirements of the City of Wall.
   (D)   That the work is to be completed within one year after the permit has
been issued by the Administrative Official.
   (E)   If the applicant does not utilize a licensed mover, the applicant may
also be required to file with the City Finance Officer a sufficient bond
conditioned so that the applicant will indemnify the city and any public
utility for any damage done to any property, street, alley or public grounds.
No building shall be moved other than during the period from daylight to
sundown. Before any permit is granted under this section, the applicant must
furnish proof that all taxes legally assessed against the property have been
paid. If a building or structure is to be moved onto any lot within the city,
the City Council shall have the power to deny the granting of a moving permit
on the grounds that the intended use of the structure or location thereof is
contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Any building, which is not newly constructed to be used for first
occupancy, shall also meet the following minimum requirements to obtain a
permit. The written consent of 66% of property owners owning property
immediately adjacent (excluding streets and alleys) to the proposed building
site.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.072 MOVED-OUT BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to move any house or other building off of any lot
within the city unless and until a permit to do so has been obtained from the
Administrative Official. No permit shall be issued until the following
requirements are met.
   (A)   The fee for said permit as prescribed in the fee schedule, shall have
been paid.
   (B)   That the work is to be completed within one year after the permit has
been issued by the Administrative Official.
   (C)   The applicant shall also file with the Administrative Official a map
of roadways upon which the building will be carried within city limits.
Further, the applicant may be required to provide documentation of condition of
said roadways, including right-of-way, utilities, private property, etc., both
prior to, and following the moving of the structure.
   (D)   If damage occurs, the applicant shall be held financially responsible
for the repair of roadways, including right-of-way, utilities, private
property, etc. to their respective condition prior to the damage. All work
shall be performed to the standards of the City of Wall.
   (E)   No building shall be moved other than during the period from daylight
to sundown. Before any permit is granted under this section, the applicant must
furnish proof that all taxes legally assessed against the property have been
paid. If a building or structure is to be moved onto any lot within the city,
the City Council shall have the power to deny the granting of a moving permit
on the grounds that the intended use of the structure or location thereof is
contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   When no replacement structure is to be moved in or constructed, the
applicant shall agree to restore the lot to a buildable condition. This may
include but is not limited to concrete basement removal, collapsing of the
basement walls, earthwork, landscaping and/or reseeding.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.073 SCREENING.
   (A)   Where any commercial or industrial use (structure, parking or storage)
is adjacent to property zoned or developed for residential use that business or
industry shall provide screening along the boundary of the residential
property. Screening shall also be provided where a business or industry is
across the street from a residential zone, but not on that side of a business
or industry considered to be the front as determined by the City Council.
Exception: screening is not required if written consent from the affected
property owner is provided in lieu of providing the screening.
   (B)   The screening required herein shall consist of a solid fence or wall
at least 50% opaque not less than five feet nor more than six feet in height
but shall not extend within 15 feet of any street or driveway opening onto a
street. The screening shall be placed along the property lines or in case of
screening along a street, 15 feet from the street right-of-way with landscaping
(trees, shrubs, grass and other planting) between the screening and the
pavement. A louvered fence shall be considered solid if it blocks direct
vision. Planting of a type approved by the Planning Commission may also be
required in addition to or in lieu of fencing.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.074 MAINTENANCE.
   In all districts, all structures, required landscaping and fences shall be
maintained so as not to be unsightly or present harmful health or safety
conditions.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.075 REFUSE.
   In all zoning districts, refuse (rubbish, garbage, trash, waste or debris)
shall be kept within a complete enclosed building or specially designed closed
container made for such purpose. Owners of vacant lots shall be responsible for
keeping their property free of trash.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.076 EXEMPT STRUCTURES.
   The following structures or uses are exempt from the regulations of this
chapter and shall be permitted in any district:
   (A)   Poles, wires, cables, conduits, laterals, pipes, mains, valves or any
other similar equipment for transmission or distribution to customers of
telephone or other communication services, electricity, gas, steam or water, or
the collection of sewage or surface water, operated or maintained by the City
of Wall, the Public Utilities Commission, or public utilities.
   (B)   Railroad tracks, signals, bridges and similar facilities and equipment
located on a railroad right-of-way.
   (C)   Public street identification signs, traffic signs and directional
signs in any parking area where such signs are necessary for the orderly
movement of traffic.
   (D)   Any other uses or structures listed as exempt elsewhere in this
chapter.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.077 LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   Except for single-family residential structures (for the purposes of this
chapter, manufactured homes and modular homes are included as SINGLE-FAMILY
STRUCTURES,) exterior lighting shall not be directed upon adjacent land or the
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.078 CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Maximum number of cannabis establishments.
      (1)   In the development and execution of these regulations, it is
recognized that there are some uses which because of their very nature, are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances
thereby having a potential deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas. Special
regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these adverse effects will
not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood.
The primary control or regulation is for the purpose of preventing a
concentration of these uses in any one area.
      (2)   The City of Wall shall limit the number of dispensaries to one.
      (3)   Cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, growing, and testing are not
permitted uses by this chapter.
   (B)   Required separation distances.
      (1)   A cannabis establishment shall be located not less than 1,000 feet
from a public or private school existing before the date of the cannabis
establishment application;
      (2)   A cannabis establishment shall be located not less than 500 feet
from a single or multi-family residence, church, child daycare facility,
library, public park, hospital, clinic, long term care facility, mental health
facility, substance abuse facility, correctional facility, drug education and/
or counseling center, funeral home, shelter, group home, other cannabis
establishment existing before the dale of the cannabis establishment
application;
      (3)   Exemption from separation requirements. Any separation distance
requirement, other than the state requirement from schools (1,000 feet), may be
waived, provided: The applicant provides documentation waiving the setback
requirement from the title holder of the land benefitting from the separation;
and
      (4)   Prescribed separation/setback distances from certain existing uses
are to be measured from the lot line of the property where the cannabis
establishment is proposed.
   (C)   Other locational requirements.
      (1)   Permanent or temporary cannabis establishment are prohibited in all
other zoning districts and not eligible for a home occupation use.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate a cannabis establishment in a
building which contains a residence or a mixed-use building with commercial and
residential uses.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to operate any portion of a cannabis
establishment outdoors. All business activity and operational activity shall
occur in a secure building/structure not accessible to the public.
   (D)   Controlled access. No cannabis establishment shall share premises with
or permit access directly from another cannabis establishment or business that
sells alcohol or tobacco.
   (E)   Hours of operation. Cannabis dispensaries are allowed to be open
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Monday through Sunday.
   (F)   Documentation of state licensure. No cannabis establishment shall
acquire, possess, store, deliver transfer, transport, supply or dispense
cannabis, cannabis products, or paraphernalia without providing documentation
of licensure from the State of South Dakota.
   (G)   The Administrative Official is authorized to issue permits (building/
use) for cannabis establishments subject to following:
      (1)   Submission of a site plan containing the following:
         (a)   Any information required for applicable building permit;
         (b)   Ingress and egress plan;
         (c)   Parking plan;
         (d)   Lighting plan (including security lighting);
         (e)   Screening/security fencing plan;
         (f)   Refuse plan;
         (g)   Hours of operation; and
         (h)   Any other information as lawfully may be required by the
Administrative Official to determine compliance with this chapter and state
law.
      (2)   Documentation of ability to meet setback/separation requirements.
      (3)   Documentation of state licensure.
   (H)   All cannabis establishments are required to be constructed in
conformance with the most recent edition of the International Building Code and
International Fire Code.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.079 BED AND BREAKFASTS (B&BS).
   A bed and breakfast (B&B) is a private single-family residence, which is
used to provide limited meals and temporary accommodations for a charge to the
public. Such establishments should be located where there will be minimal
impact on surrounding residential properties and should comply with the
following conditions:
   (A)   B&Bs shall be limited to residential structures with an overall
minimum of 1,800 square feet of floor. Preference will be given to structures
with historic or other unique qualities.
   (B)   B&Bs shall be in compliance with applicable state laws including
registration with the South Dakota Department of Health, maintaining a guest
list, and providing a smoke detector in each sleeping room.
   (C)   Accessory use signs shall be based on similar requirements for a home
occupation permit and shall not be more than two square feet in area.
   (D)   Such uses shall be an incidental use with an owner-occupied principal
dwelling structure provided that not more than four bedrooms in such dwelling
structure shall be used for such purpose.
   (E)   Off-street parking requirements shall be one space per guestroom and
shall be in addition to parking requirements for the principal use. Off-street
parking shall not be located in a required front or side yard and screening
shall be required when adjacent to residentially used property.
   (F)   The length of stay shall not exceed 14 days during any 120-day
consecutive period.
   (G)   Meals shall be limited to breakfast, which is prepared in a common
facility (household kitchen). Meals may be served only to overnight registered
guests and cooking is not permitted in the sleeping rooms.
   (H)   The building shall meet all building codes and zoning requirements. A
site plan showing the location of guest parking spaces and floor plan showing a
location of the sleeping rooms, lavatories, and bathing facilities, and kitchen
shall be submitted with application.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.080 HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   A home occupation is a business conducted in a dwelling unit, provided
that the occupation is clearly secondary to the main use of the premises as a
dwelling and does not change the character thereof or have any exterior
evidence of such secondary use. For the purposes of minimizing conflicts with
neighboring residentially used property, the City of Wall has established
minimum performance standards for home occupations.
   (B)   Performance standards.
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in such occupation;
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinated to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall
be used in the conduct of the home occupation. Exception: in-home daycares
providing care for less than 12 children in a 24-hour period may utilize more
than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit;
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding two square foot in area, non-illuminated,
and mounted flat against the wall of the principle building;
      (4)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation,
which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot. In the case of electrical
interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or
audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the premises or
causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises;
      (5)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street; and
      (6)   Notwithstanding the preceding standards, any operation that
provides care for more than 12 children in a 24-hour period shall not be
considered a home occupation.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.081 CARETAKER/WATCHMAN'S QUARTERS.
   (A)   Caretaker/watchman's quarters on parcels in any commercial or
industrially zoned property shall require a conditional use permit.
   (B)   Caretaker or watchman's living quarters shall be limited to not more
than one dwelling unit.
   (C)   The dwelling unit shall be occupied by person(s) associated with the
operation or maintenance of the business or building. If it is found that the
occupant(s) are not associated with such operation or maintenance the living
area shall be removed.
   (D)   The total area of the dwelling unit shall consist of not more than 30%
of the total area of the building.
   (E)   (1)   The dwelling unit shall maintain an entrance other than that of
the business associated with the caretaker or watchman's living quarters.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   If a single entrance enters into a common hallway or corridor in
which the business and dwelling unit are entered separately, the dwelling unit
may be allowed to use the same entrance as the business.
         (b)   Entrance to the dwelling unit is accessible only by employees of
the business.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.082 PRIVATE STORAGE STRUCTURES AS A CONDITIONAL USE.
   Private storage structures may be permitted on a lot or lots not adjacent to
the lot to which the structure is accessory if done so in accordance with §
151.044(F) in any district where this use is listed as a conditional use
subject to the following minimum requirements established by this chapter:
   (A)   Each private storage structure shall require a conditional use permit.
   (B)   The structure shall be used exclusively for personal storage by the
owner of the lot.
   (C)   The structure may not be used to operate a business of any kind.
   (D)   The structure shall consist of a maximum sidewall height of 14 feet.
   (E)   Private storage structures may exceed the maximum area established by
this section and/or be constructed with a sidewall height of 16 feet provided:
      (1)   The applicant submit with the application the written consent of
two-thirds of all of the owners of property adjoining the lot upon which the
proposed structure will be constructed shall be submitted with the application;
      (2)   The minimum required side yard (setback) shall be doubled; and
      (3)   The minimum required secondary front yard (setback) shall be
doubled on lots with more than one frontage.
   (F)   If at any time after the construction of the private storage structure
it should become accessory to an allowable primary use on the same lot, the use
of the structure shall conform with the accessory use provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
DEFINITIONS
§ 151.100 GENERAL TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number
shall include the plural; and the plural number includes the singular. The word
BUILDING shall include the word STRUCTURE, and the word SHALL is mandatory, not
discretionary, the word MAY is permissive; the word PERSON includes a firm,
association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or corporation, as well
as an individual; the word LOT includes the words plat or parcel and the words
USED or OCCUPIED include the words intended, designed, or arranged to be used
or occupied. Any word not herein defined shall be as defined in any recognized
standard English dictionary.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. As applied to use or structure, customarily
subordinate or incidental to, and on the premises of such use or structure.
   ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION. That construction materials are being permanently
placed and the construction work is proceeding without undue delay.
   ADJ ACE NT PRO PER TY. Any lot, parce l, or prope rty borde ring by means of
adjoining, abutting, or intersecting a specified lot boundary, and those lots
immediately across a public right-of-way from a specified lot. See the figures
below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-601.gif]
 
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. Also commonly known as the zoning officer or zoning
official, see §
151.041.
   ADULT BOOKSTORES. An establishment having, as a substantial portion of its
stock in trade, books, magazines, films or videotapes for sale or viewing on
the premises by use of motion picture devices or other coin-operated means, and
other periodicals which are distinguished by their emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas as such terms are defined in this section, or an establishment
with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of such material.
Adult bookstores may alternatively or in conjunction with the above stock in,
trade, sell undergarments and other clothing designed for the display of
specified anatomical areas or for the enhancement of specified sexual
activities. Further, an adult bookstore may alternatively or in conjunction
with the above stock in, trade, sell prosthetic devices, dolls, candles,
vibrators, and other objects for sexual gratification which take the form of
specified anatomical areas and for the purpose of enhancing specified sexual
activities.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. An establishment offering to its patrons, as
entertainment, any exhibition or display or any theatrical or other live
performances which include topless or go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers,
male or female impersonators, or similar entertainers, or any persons singing,
reading, posing, modeling, or serving food or beverages, where the exhibition,
performance, display or dance is intended to sexually arouse the entertainer or
the patrons, or where the attire of persons involved is such as to expose
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building, regardless of its
seating capacity which is used to present for public view on the premises,
films, movies, previews, trailers, or advertisements which are distinguished by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT PHOTO STUDIO. An establishment which, on payment of a fee, provides
photographic equipment and/or models for the purpose of photographing SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS, as herein defined.
   ADULT USE. Includes adult entertainment facility, adult bookstores, adult
motion picture theaters, and adult photo studios as defined in this section.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. A person aggrieved is any person directly interested in
the outcome of and aggrieved by a decision or action or failure to act pursuant
to this chapter who:
      (1)   Establishes that the person suffered an injury, an invasion of a
legally protected interest that is both concrete and particularized, and actual
or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical;
      (2)   Shows that a causal connection exists between the person's injury
and the conduct of which the person complains. The causal connection is
satisfied if the injury is fairly traceable to the challenged action, and not
the result of the independent action of any third party not before the court;
      (3)   Shows it is likely, and not merely speculative, that the injury
will be redressed by a favorable decision; and
      (4)   Shows that the injury is unique or different from those injuries
suffered by the public in general.
   AGRICULTURE. The cultivation of the soil, and all activities incident
thereto, except that said term shall not include the raising and feeding of
hogs, sheep, goats, cattle, poultry, or fur bearing animals.
   AIRPORT. A place where aircraft can land and takeoff, usually equipped with
hangers, facilities for refueling and repair, and various accommodations for
passengers, including heliports.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way which affords secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms designed for, intended for, or used as a
residence for one family or individual and equipped with cooking facilities.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A detached dwelling designed for, or occupied by, three
or more family units.
   ATTACHED GARAGE. A garage which is attached by a common wall side by side,
extending from the basement floor to the roof, or a detached garage which is
within ten feet of the dwelling.
   AUTO (VEHICLE) SERVICE STATION. Buildings and premises where gasoline,
diesel, oil, grease, batteries, tires, and vehicle accessories may be supplied
and dispensed at retail. This definition does not include storage, body repair
or auto salvage operations.
   BAR/LOUNGE/TAVERN. An establishment that is licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages by the drink.
   BASEMENT. A basement is any floor level below the first story in a building,
except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be
classified as a basement unless such floor level qualifies as a first story as
defined herein.
   BED AND BREAKFAST (B&B). A private single-family residence, which is used to
provide limited meals and temporary accommodations for a charge to the public.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, unsubdivided
acreage or boundary line of the corporate limits of the city.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS. Also commonly known as the Board of Appeals, see §
151.042(C).
   BUFFER. The use of land, topography, space, fences, or landscape planting to
partially screen a use or activity from another property and thus reduce
undesirable views or influences.
   BUILDABLE AREA. That portion of the lot that can be occupied by the
principal use, thus excluding the front, rear, and side yards. The diagram
below illustrates the buildable area of a hypothetical lot. This diagram is for
reference only. Setbacks and other requirements vary from district to district
(see illustration below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-603.gif]
 
   BUIL DING. A structure which is entirely separated from any other structure
by space or by walls in which there are no communicating doors or windows or
similar openings.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the mean curb level along the
front lot line or from the mean ground level for all that portion of the
structure having frontage on a public right-of-way, whichever is higher, to the
top of the cornice of a flat roof, to the top line of a mansard roof, to a
point on the roof directly above the highest wall of a shed roof, to the
uppermost point on a round or other arch-type roof, or to the mean distance of
the highest gable on a pitched or hip roof.
   BUTCHER SHOP. A retail store supplying meat and poultry products where meat
processing is limited to making cuts of meat from pre-processed carcasses.
   CAMPGROUND. A plot of ground for public use upon which two or more campsites
are located, established, maintained, advertised, or held out to the public, to
be a place where camping units can be located and occupied as temporary living
quarters. Campgrounds for tent trailers and recreational vehicles shall be
sited with consideration for access to the property. The campground shall be
designed to minimize the impact from adjacent major thoroughfares.
   CANNABIS (OR MARIJUANA ). All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. The term includes an altered state of
marijuana absorbed into the human body. The term does not include fiber
produced from the mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the
seeds of such plant. The term does not include the plant Cannabis saliva L.
(hemp) and any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all
derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of
isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of not more than three-tenths of 1% on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. A legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. A legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. See CANNABIS DISPENSARY.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. A legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. A legally licensed entity legally authorized to
analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   CARETAKER'S RESIDENCE/WATCHMAN'S QUARTERS. A dwelling unit which is occupied
by one who is employed by a business located on the same premises or within the
same structure as said dwelling unit.
   CAR WASH. A facility used to clean the exterior, and sometimes the interior,
of vehicles.
   CHURCH. A building wherein persons regularly assemble for religious worship,
and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
public worship, together with all accessory buildings and uses customarily
associated with such primary purpose. The definition of CHURCH includes all
religious institutions.
   CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE. A triangular-shaped portion of land established at
street intersections and ingress/egress points in which there are restrictions
on things erected, placed, or planted which would limit or obstruct the sight
distance of motorists entering or leaving the intersection (see illustration
below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-605.gif]
 
   CLINIC. An establishment where patients are not lodged overnight, but are
admitted for examination and treatment by physicians, psychologists,
optometrists, chiropractors or dentists and other health care professionals
practicing medicine together and including facilities for training and
rehabilitation.
   COMMERCIAL STORAGE, MINI-STORAGE FACILITIES. Individual locker storage
facilities (frequently with some accessory outdoor vehicle/boat storage)
primarily for the benefit of residential or small business users in which are
kept household items, business records, vehicles, recreational equipment, etc.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer designed or
used to carry freight, passengers for a fee, or merchandise in the furtherance
of any commercial enterprise and having a gross weight of more than 10,000
pounds.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Wall, South Dakota. See
also PLANNING COMMISSION.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN). The adopted long-range
plan intended to guide the growth and development of the City of Wall including
a compilation of policy statements, objectives, standards, and maps for guiding
the physical, social, and economic development, both public and private, of the
municipality and its environs, as defined in current state law.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that, owing to certain special characteristics
attendant to its operation, may be permitted in a zoning district subject to
requirements that are different from the requirements imposed for any use
permitted by right in the zoning district. Conditional uses are subject to
evaluation and approval by the Board of Adjustment.
   CONDOMINIUM. The ownership of single units in a multi-unit residential
structure with common elements. (With the property subject to the condominium
regime established pursuant to SDCL Chapter 43-15A.) Commercial uses may occupy
properties platted pursuant to SDCL Chapter 43-15A, however where referenced
herein, the term CONDOMINIUM only authorizes the structure to be used for
residential purposes. This chapter does not differentiate between the manner of
ownership of non-residential uses.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any clearing of land, excavation, or other action that would
affect the natural environment of the site or route but does not include
changes needed for temporary use of sites or routes for non-utility purposes,
or uses in securing survey or geological data, including necessary borings to
ascertain foundation conditions.
   CONSTRUCTION, ACTUAL. Construction materials are being permanently placed
and the construction work is proceeding without undue delay.
   CONTRACTOR SHOPS AND STORAGE YARDS. Those facilities to include structures
and land areas where the outdoor storage of equipment and supplies used for
various types of off-site construction are stored. Examples of equipment and
supplies include but are not limited to the following: road construction,
building construction, gravel operations, and general contracting services.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment offering for sale pre-packaged
food products, household items, and other goods commonly associated with the
same, at which a customer typically purchases only a few items during a short
visit. Convenience stores may or may not sell fuel.
   COURT. An open unoccupied space bounded on two or more sides by the exterior
walls of a building or buildings on the same lot. Court can also refer to the
justice system and is sometimes used in reference to mobile home parks, i.e.,
TRAILER COURT.
   CURB LEVEL. The curb level is the level of the established curb in front of
the building measured at the center of such front. Where no curb level has been
established, the City Engineer shall establish such curb level or its
equivalent for the purpose of this chapter.
   DAYCARE. Any operation, which provides childcare services whether accessory
to the caregiver's home or operated in a separate commercial structure.
   DAYCARE CENTER. A commercial structure used for the purposes of providing
childcare services. To be considered a DAYCARE CENTER under these regulations,
must be licensed by the State of South Dakota.
   DUPLEX HOUSE. A dwelling having apartments with separate entrances for two
families. This includes two-story houses having a complete apartment on each
floor and also side-by-side apartments that share a common wall.
   DWELLING. Any building or part thereof which is designed or used exclusively
for residential purposes by one or more human beings either permanently or
transiently.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied
by three or more families, with the number of families in residence not
exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling building, other
than a manufactured home but to include modular homes, designed for and
occupied by one family only.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residential building containing two household units,
designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent
housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental or lease on a weekly,
monthly, or longer basis, and physically separated from any other rooms or
dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and containing independent
cooking and sleeping facilities.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN. A sign whose message may be changed at intervals by
electronic process or remote control and whose only movement is the periodic
changing of information having a constant light level.
   ENFORCING OFFICER. For the purpose of this chapter, the City Council is the
enforcing officer.
   ENGINEER. Any engineer licensed by the State of South Dakota.
   EXCEPTION. An exemption to a specified regulation within this chapter which,
unless otherwise specified, may be authorized by the Administrative Official.
   EXTENDED HOME OCCUPATION. A home occupation conducted outside of the
residence and/or in an accessory building.
   FAMILY. One or more individuals living, sleeping, cooking, or eating on the
premises as a single unit; but it shall not include a group of more than five
individuals not related by blood or marriage.
   FARM. A bonafide business for the production of agricultural products and
the incidental use of horses, dogs, or other animals and other similar
operations; but specifically excluding greenhouses, horticultural nurseries,
and kennels and other similar commercial operations.
   FEEDLOT. A feedlot is a lot, yard, corral, building or other area where
animals in excess of ten animal units per acre or in excess of ten animal units
per parcel of land have been, are, or will be stabled or confined for a total
of 45 days or more during any 12-month period, and where crops, vegetation,
forage growth, or post-harvest residues are not sustained over any portion of
the lot or facility.
   FILLING (SERVICE) STATION. Also referred to VEHICLE SERVICE STATION.
Buildings and premises where gasoline, diesel, oil, grease, batteries, tires,
and vehicle accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail, but where the
following activities are not carried out as a normal part of doing business:
      (1)   Major mechanical work, involving removal of the head or crankcase;
      (2)   Auto body work, including straightening of auto body parts;
      (3)   Painting or welding of any vehicle parts;
      (4)   Storage of vehicles not in operating condition; and
      (5)   Any other vehicle work which involves noise, glare, fumes, smoke,
or other characteristics not normally found at places which sell gasoline or
diesel at retail.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS. Any liquid which gives off flammable vapors, as
determined by the flash point from an open-cup tester as used for test of
burning oils, at or below a temperature of 80 degrees Fahrenheit, is flammable.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any illuminated sign that has artificial light or color which
is not maintained at a constant intensity or color when such sign is in use. A
sign providing public service information, such as time, weather, date,
temperature, or similar information, shall not be considered a flashing sign.
   FUNERAL HOME. A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial
and display of the deceased and rituals connected therewith before burial or
cremation. A funeral home, as defined for purposes of this chapter, includes a
funeral chapel but does not include crematoriums.
   GAME LODGE. A building or group of two or more detached, or semi-detached,
or attached buildings occupied or used as a temporary abiding place of
sportsmen, hunters, and fishermen, who are lodged with or without meals, and in
which there are sleeping quarters.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building used for the storage of not more than
four vehicles owned and used by the occupant of the building to which it is
necessary. Vehicles include cars, pickups, and boats, but not commercial
vehicles.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, other than a private or
storage garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring,
selling, storing, or parking motor-driven vehicles. The term REPAIRING shall
not include an vehicle body repair shop nor the rebuilding, dismantling, or
storage of wrecked or junked vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any building or premises, used for housing only motor-
driven vehicles, other than trucks and commercial vehicles.
   GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY. An organized entity which, in addition to having
governmental character, has sufficient discretion in the management of its own
affairs to distinguish it as separate from the administrative structure of any
other governmental unit.
   GRADE. The finished grade of premises improved by a building or structure is
the average natural elevation or slope of the surface of the ground within 50
feet of the building or structure.
   GREENHOUSE. A building whose roof and sides are made largely of glass
regulated for the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season plants for
subsequent sale or for personal enjoyment.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of all floors of a building, including
intermediately floored tiers, mezzanine, basements, etc., as measured from
exterior surfaces of the outside walls of the building.
   GROUP HOME. A supervised living or counseling arrangement in a family home
context providing for the 24-hour care of children or adults.
   HEIGHT OF STRUCTURE. The vertical distance from the established average
sidewalk grade or street grade, or finished grade at the building line,
whichever is the highest, to the highest point of the building.
   HIGH VOLTAGE TRANSMISSION LINE. A conductor of electric energy and
associated facilities.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Businesses operated in a residential dwelling, see §
151.080.
   HOTEL OR MOTEL. A building designed for occupancy as the more or less
temporary abiding place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in
which there are four or more guest rooms, and which is open to the public and
transients.
   HOUSEHOLD UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   INDOOR RECREATION FACILITY. An indoor facility, with or without seating for
spectators, and providing accommodations for a variety of individual,
organized, or franchised sports, including but not limited to basketball, ice
hockey, wrestling, soccer, tennis, volleyball, racquetball, or handball. Such
facility may also provide other regular organized or franchised events, health
and fitness club facilities, swimming pool, snack bar, restaurant, retail sales
of related sports, health or fitness items, and other support.
   JUNK YARD. The use of more than 50 square feet of any land, building, or
structure, whether for private or commercial purposes, or both, where waste
discarded or salvaged materials such as scrap metals, used building materials,
used lumber, used glass, discarded vehicles, paper, rags, rubber, cordage,
barrels, machinery, etc., or parts thereof with or without the dismantling,
processing, salvage, sale or other use or disposition of the same.
   KENNEL. Any place where more than three dog(s) or cat(s) over four months of
age are owned, boarded, raised, bred, and offered for sale or adoption.
   LIGHT MANUFACTURING. Those manufacturing processes which are not obnoxious
due to dust, odor, noise, vibration, pollution, smoke, heat, or glare. These
commercial and industrial uses are characterized by generally having all
aspects of the process carried on within the building itself.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and
accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled.
Required off-street loading space is not to be included as off-street parking
space in computation of required off- street parking space.
   LOT. A parcel or tract of land having specific boundaries, and which has
been recorded in the Register of Deeds office. Unless otherwise specified by
this chapter or allowed by the Board of Adjustment, a lot shall include only
one principal building together with its accessory buildings; open spaces and
parking spaces required by these regulations and shall have its principal
frontage upon a road or other approved access.
   LOT COVERAGE. For the purposes of this chapter, the percentage determined by
dividing the area of a lot covered by the total; in square feet of: (A) the
footprint of the primary structure; and (B) the footprint(s) of all accessory
structures by the total lot area (D). See formula and figure below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-607.gif]
 
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purposes of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage. Minimum frontage for lots located on cul-de-sacs shall be
determined as the average of the widest and narrowest width of the lot.
   LOT MEASUREMENTS.
      (1)   AREA. The lot area is the area of a horizontal plane in square feet
or acres within the lot line.
      (2)   DEPTH. The average mean horizontal distance between the front and
rear lot lines.
      (3)   WIDTH. The width of a lot at the front yard line.
   LOT MERGER AGREEMENT. A contractual document with the purpose of joining two
legal lots together in order to accommodate certain planning and zoning
regulations.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the Pennington
County Register of Deeds, prior to the adoption of the Zoning Ordinance.
   LOT TYPES. See figure below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-609.gif]
 
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
corner lot if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than
135 degrees (Lot A).
      (2)   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which the frontage is at right angles
or approximately right angles (interior angle less than 135 degrees) to the
general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner lot
(Lot A and D in the diagram), an interior lot (Lot B and D in the diagram) or
through lot (Lot C and D in the diagram).
      (3)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street (Lot B).
      (4)   THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more
than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots (Lot C).
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot is its own mean width measured at right angles
to its mean depth.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. See §
151.068.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. See §
151.068.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING DEFINITIONS.
      (1)   ANCHORING SYSTEM. An approved system of straps, cables,
turnbuckles, chains, ties, or other approved materials used to secure a
manufactured or mobile home.
      (2)   ANSI/NFPA 501A STANDARDS FOR INSTALLATION OF (MANUFACTURED) MOBILE
HOMES. Model national standards (including all authorized successor documents)
for installation of manufactured and modular homes, as adopted and copyrighted
by the National Fire Protection Association and Manufactured Housing Institute.
      (3)   EXPANDO UNIT. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
      (4)   FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING. A type of wainscoting constructed of
fire and weather resistant material, such as aluminum, asbestos board, treated
pressed wood or other approved materials, enclosing the entire undercarriage of
the manufactured home.
      (5)   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structural system for transporting loads
from a structure to the earth at a depth below the established frostline
without exceeding the same bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
      (6)   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground.
      (7)   SECTION. A unit of a manufactured home at least ten body feet in
width and 30 feet in length.
      (8)   SUPPORT SYSTEM. A pad or combination of footings, piers, caps,
plates, and shims, which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or
mobile home.
   MEASUREMENT. Unless otherwise specified, all distances shall be measured
horizontally and shall be expressed to the nearest integral foot. If a
fractional distance is one-half foot or less, the preceding or lesser integral
foot measurement shall control.
   MINING. The excavation of earth materials for the purpose of sale.
   MODULAR HOME. See §
151.068(A).
   MOTEL/HOTEL. A building designed for occupancy as the more or less temporary
abiding place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in which
there are four or more guest rooms, and which is open to the public and
transients.
   MOVED-IN BUILDING. A building that previously existed on a lot of different
location relocated for use as a residence, out-building, commercial, industrial
or any building used in relation to these uses shall be recognized as a moved-
in building.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any building or structure, or land lawfully occupied by
a use at the time of passage of this chapter or amendment which does not
conform after the passage of this chapter or amendment with the use regulation
of the district in which it is situated.
   NON-STANDARD USE. The category of non-conformance consisting of lots
occupied by buildings or structures or uses which existed immediately prior to
the effective date of this chapter which fail to comply with any of the
following: minimum lot requirements for the area, density, width, front yard,
side yard, rear yard, height, unobstructed open space, or parking for the
district in which they are located, even though the use of the premises
conforms to the permitted uses within the district as set out in the provisions
of this chapter.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING BUSINESS. Provisions of outdoor displays or display
space on a lease or rental basis only.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY. An outdoor arrangement of objects, items, products, or
other materials, typically not in a fixed position and capable of
rearrangement, designed and used for the purpose of advertising or identifying
a business, product, or service. This definition excludes new and used sale,
lease, or rental of vehicles, trucks, motorcycles, recreational vehicles,
boats, or watercraft.
   OUTSIDE STORAGE. The keeping of commodities, goods, raw materials,
equipment, vehicles, heavy vehicles, or merchandise not within an enclosed
building, including incidental maintenance and repair of the material which is
being stored. This definition excludes new and used sale, lease, or rental of
vehicles, trucks, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, boats, or watercraft.
Parking of company owned vehicles that are currently registered, licensed, and
operable will be excluded. Materials and equipment that are transferred from an
enclosed building for an outdoor sales display are not considered outside
storage.
   PARCEL. A single tract of land, located within a single block, which at the
time of filing for a building/use permit, is designated by the owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit, under
single or unified ownership or control, and assigned to the particular use,
building or structure, for which the building/use permit are issued and
including such area of land as may be required by the provisions of this
chapter for such use, building or structure.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An off-street parking space shall consist of a
space for parking an vehicle with room for opening doors on both sides,
together with related access to a public street or alley, and maneuvering room.
A space for parking of vehicles which has a minimum width of nine feet and a
minimum length of 19 feet.
   PERMIT. A permit required by these regulations unless stated otherwise.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
   PERSON. In addition to an individual, includes the following: firm,
association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or corporation, joint
venture, public service company, cooperative, political subdivision, municipal
corporation, government agency, public utility district, or any other entity,
public or private, however organized.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Establishments providing non-medically related services,
including beauty and barber shops; clothing rental; dry cleaning pick-up
stores; laundromats (self-service laundries); psychic readers; shoe repair
shops; tanning salons; tattoo parlors; body piercing studios; etc. These uses
may also include accessory retail sales of products related to the services
provided.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The appointed members of the Planning Commission
serving in an advisory capacity on planning and zoning matters. The Planning
and Zoning Commission required in SDCL § 11-6-2 shall be referred to throughout
this document as the PLANNING COMMISSION.
   PLAT. The map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan of
subdivision is legally recorded.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary use to which the premises are devoted.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Work done for others, predominately on the premises
of the office, by someone trained and engaged in such work for a career, e.g.,
doctors, lawyers, accountants.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, or camping
trailer, with or without motor power, designed for human habitation for
recreational or emergency occupancy. A recreational vehicle does not include
manufactured homes.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any building used for non-profit purposes by an
established religious organization holding either tax exempt status under
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code or under the state property tax
law, where such building is primarily intended to be used as a place of
worship. The term includes, but is not necessarily limited to: church, temple,
synagogue, and mosque.
   SANITARY LANDFILLS. Method of waste disposal involving the dumping and daily
covering of waste material all in compliance with state regulations.
   SALE OR AUCTION YARD/BARN. A place or building where the normal activity is
to sell or exchange livestock. Livestock normally in yard or farm for one day
during sale or auction.
   SCREENING. Earth forms, walls, fences, plant material or other structures or
devices intended to partially obscure, conceal or protect from off-site view.
   SERVICE STATION, VEHICLE. Any building or premise which provides for the
retail sale of gasoline, diesel, oil, tires, batteries, and accessories for
motor vehicles and for certain motor vehicle services, including washings, tire
changing, repair service, battery service, radiator service, lubrication, brake
service, wheel service, and testing or adjusting of automotive parts. Vehicle
repair work may be done at a service station provided that no rebuilding of
engines, spray paint operations, or body or fender repair is permitted.
   SETBACK. The setback of a building is the minimum horizontal distance
between the front line or
street line and the nearest edge of any building or any projection thereof.
   SHEET SIDING. Any siding material customarily installed as a sheet and
composed of galvanized, painted, or bonded metal, and customarily installed in
a vertical manner but also capable of being installed horizontally.
   SHOPPING CENTER. Retail buildings of greater than 100,000 square feet and
designed for more than one tenant.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. Rentals of a home or space within a home for less than 30
days at a time; can also be called vacation rentals, transient rentals, or
Airbnb. For the purpose of this chapter, short-term rental does not include a
B&B. See Chapter 5.04.010(C) for licensure and permitting for short-term
rentals.
   SIGN.
      (1)   A name, identification, display, illustration, or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure, or
land in view of the general public, and which directs attention to a product,
place, activity, purpose, institution or business.
      (2)   Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons
not on the premises on which the sign is located, provided, however, that the
following shall not be included in the application of the regulations herein.
         (a)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other
identification of premises not having commercial connotations;
         (b)   Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion;
         (c)   Legal notices, identification, information, or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies;
         (d)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings,
except letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights; and
         (e)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private
property but bearing no advertising matter.
   SIGN AREA. The total area or areas of all signs within the outer edges of
the sign or advertising
message. Sign area may be calculated in the following manners.
      (1)   A single message on a single sign face.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-611.gif]
 
      (2)   Multiple messages on a single sign face.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-613.gif]
 
      (3)   Multiple messages on stacked signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-615.gif]
 
   SIGN (FLASHING). Any illuminated sign on which such illumination is not kept
stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such sign is in
use.
   SIGN (GROUND). A sign which is anchored to the ground and has no air space
between grade and the bottom of the frame or sign facing.
   SIGN (ILLUMINATED). Any sign which has characters, letters, figures,
designs, or outlines illuminated by electric or luminous tubes as a part of the
design.
   SIGN (NAMEPLATE). Any sign which states the name or address or both of the
business or occupant of the lot where the sign is placed.
   SIGN (PARKING). A sign which provides specific instruction to the public,
including but not limited to. "Center," "Exit," "No Parking," "Drive Through."
No parking sign shall be permitted to include any commercial message.
   SIGN (POLE). A freestanding sign wholly supported by one or more poles.
   SIGN (PORTABLE). Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure designed to be transported from structure to structure or
site to site at periodic intervals. Portable signs include signs attached to or
painted on vehicles, unless said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day
operations of the business. Portable signs are temporary signs.
   SIGN (PROJECTING). Any sign that is affixed at an angle or perpendicular to
a wall of any building in such a manner as to be read either perpendicular or
at an angle to the wall on which it is mounted.
   SIGN (REAL ESTATE). A sign placed upon property for the purpose of
advertising the sale, lease, or availability for rent of property.
   SIGN (ROOF). A sign erected upon and above a roof structure and wholly
supported by the roof structure or a structure placed upon the roof. Roof signs
shall constitute any message placed upon sloped building fascia intended to
appear as or actually be roof elements of the building.
   SIGN (ROTATING). A sign which revolves or rotates on its axis by mechanical
means.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which supports, has supported, or is capable
of supporting a sign, including decorative cover.
   SIGN (TEMPORARY). Any sign used for varying periods of time which is not
permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure. See below
examples of TEMPORARY SIGNS (not all inclusive).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a53f938bedb2591e50f5f83ebbe72878b2351e28/
IMAGES/0-0-0-617.gif]
 
   SIGN (WALL) . A sign placed flat against a structure, fence, or wall. Signs
painted onto a wall, fence, or structure are wall signs.
   SLAUGHTERHOUSE. A facility for the slaughtering and processing of animals
and refining of their byproducts for wholesale purposes.
   SLEEPING QUARTERS. A room or an area contained within a dwelling unit
utilized for the purpose of sleep.
   SPECIAL PERMITTED USE. An administrative review process, where the
Administrative Official shall have the power to review an application for
conformance with the applicable standards and approval criteria and issue a
special permitted use permit. The City of Wall does not allow special permitted
uses, see § 151.044(I).
   STABLE. A building for the shelter and feeding of domestic animals,
especially horses and cattle.
   STABLE, COMMERCIAL. A building for the shelter and feeding of domestic
animals, especially horses and cattle where such domestic animals are raised,
trained, boarded, harbored, or kept for remuneration. Veterinary clinics,
animal hospitals and animal shelters are specifically excluded.
   STAND, ROADSIDE. A structure for the display and sale of products with no
space for customers within the structure itself.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a basement or unused under-floor space is more than six feet
above grade for more than 50% of the total perimeter or is more than 12-feet
above grade at any point, such basement or unused under-floor space shall be
considered as a story.
   STORY, FIRST. The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a story,
except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be
classified as a first story, provided such floor level is not more than four
feet below grade for more than 50% of the total perimeter, or more than eight
feet below grade at any point.
   STREET. A public right-of-way-which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property. Also, may be referred to as road or highway. The term street
shall include and apply to any public way except alleys. Streets may be further
classified in accordance with the following terms referenced in the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan for the City of Wall:
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREET. A street designated as such upon the Major Street
Plan of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the City of Wall.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street designated as such upon the Major Street
Plan of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the City of Wall.
      (3)   LOCAL STREET. Any street which is not an arterial street or
collector street.
   STREET LINE. A right-of-way line of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, structures include, but are not limited to, buildings,
manufactured homes, walls, fences, swimming pools, and signs.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. Anything constructed or erected, or placed, the use of
which requires temporary location on the ground or attached to something having
a temporary location on the ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building developments
(whether immediate or future). This term includes re-subdivision and, when
appropriate to the context, is related to the process of subdividing or to the
land subdivided.
   SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED. The amount of work required to be completed in
association with a building/use permit issued by the city. In order to be
substantially complete, 75% of the project for which a building/use permit has
been issued is required to be finished.
   TOWNHOUSES. See CONDOMINIUM.
   TRAILER. Any of the following:
      (1)   CAMPER TRAILER. A canvas, folding structure, mounted on wheels, and
designed for travel, recreation, and vacation use.
      (2)   MOTOR-HOME. A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation, and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
      (3)   PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, and vacation.
      (4)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation uses. The trailer shall be permanently identified as a TRAVEL TRAILER
by the manufacturer of the trailer and, when factory equipped for the road, it
shall have a body width not exceeding eight feet, and a body length not
exceeding 30 feet.
   TREE. A tree which is required by this chapter and meets or exceeds the
definitions of deciduous shade trees and evergreen or coniferous trees.
   TREE, DECIDUOUS SHADE. A woody plant that normally grows with one main trunk
and has a canopy that screens and filters the sun in the summer months.
   TREE, EVERGREEN OR CONIFEROUS. A tree species with foliage that persists and
remains green year-round.
   TWIN-HOMES. A two-family dwelling which has a common wall and is platted
into two separate lots.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. Land area and facilities specifically designated and
developed for recreational or social activities of individuals or groups
excluding required setback areas, in addition to those areas and facilities
designated and developed for the private use of residents of individual
dwelling units.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building thereof is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   UTILITY. All lines and facilities related to the provision, distribution,
collection, transmission, or disposal of water, storm and sanitary sewage, oil,
gas, power, information, telecommunication, and telephone cable, and includes
facilities for the generation of electricity.
   VARIANCE. A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the Zoning Ordinance
where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship. As used in this chapter, a variance is
authorized only for height, area, and size of structure or size of yards and
open spaces; establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not
be allowed by variance, nor shall a variance be granted because of the presence
of non-conformities in the zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning
district.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public street or highway, excepting devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks;
provided that, for the purposes of this title, a bicycle or a ridden animal
shall be deemed a vehicle.
   VETERINARY CLINIC. A commercial activity catering to the medical needs of
animals and having no outside runs or areas of outdoor animal confinement.
   WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, manure, sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility and other
discarded materials, including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural
operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or
dissolved materials in domestic sewage or dissolved materials in irrigation
return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources subject to
permits under Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as
amended to January 1, 1986, or source, special nuclear or by-product materials
as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
   WATCHMAN'S QUARTERS. See CARETAKER'S RESIDENCE/WATCHMAN'S QUARTERS.
   WHOLESALE MERCHANDISING/TRADE. Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial,
commercial, institutional, or professional business users, or to other
wholesalers; or acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise for, or
selling merchandise to, such individuals or companies.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building or group of buildings,
which open space lies between the building or group of buildings and the
nearest lot line.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending between the side lot lines across the front of
a lot adjoining a public right-of-way. Depth of required front yards shall be
measured at right angles to a straight line adjoining the foremost points of
the side lot lines. The foremost point of the side lot line, in the case of
rounded property corners at street intersections, shall be assumed to be the
point at which the side and front lot lines would have met without such
rounding. Front and rear front yard lines shall be parallel.
      (1)   PRIMARY FRONT YARD. Any front yard adjacent to the street which is
used as principal access for the lot. Unless otherwise differentiated, for the
purposes of measuring required setbacks the phrases FRONT YARD, or REQUIRED
FRONT YARD refer to the primary front yard.
      (2)   SECONDARY FRONT YARD. On a lot with more than one frontage, any
front yard adjacent to a street which is not used as principal access for the
lot. Unless otherwise specified, for the purposes of measuring required
setbacks, the minimum setback for all secondary front yards shall equal one-
half the required setback for a primary front yard.
   YARD, REAR. A yard across the whole width of the lot, extending from the
rear line of the building to the rear line of the lot. In the case of through
lots and corner lots, where there will be no rear yards, but only front and
side yards.
   YARD, REQUIRED. That portion of a side, front, or rear yard nearest the
designated lot line and having the width or depth required in the district in
which located.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the adjacent sideline of the
lot, which separates it from another lot, extending from the front lot line to
the rear yard. In the case of through lots and corner lots, side yards
remaining after the full and half-depth front yards have been established shall
be considered side yards.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that the
side of a building
rests on a lot line.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A section of the city for which the regulations governing
the use of land, the construction and use of buildings and the occupancy of
premises are hereby made.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be treated in the manner specified below.
   (A)   Any person who starts work for which a permit (building, conditional
use, variance, rezoning) is required by this chapter, without first securing
such permit and paying the prescribed fee, shall be charged according to the
provisions of this section. All administrative fees assessed there under shall
be rounded to the nearest whole dollar.
      (1)   Upon finding such violation, the Administrative Official shall
notify the owner of property by sending a written notification of the
requirement that a permit be obtained to the owner of the property involved by
certified mail with return receipt requested. If application for said permit is
filed within seven working days from the date of mailing of the certified
letter, an administrative fee shall be assessed in the amount of 100% of the
fee for the building/use permit plus the cost of the postage for mailing the
notice. In no case shall this administrative fee be less than $5, including the
postage costs.
      (2)   If application for said permit is filed after the deadline of seven
working days from the date of mailing of the certified letter notifying the
party thereof, there shall be imposed an administrative fee in the amount of
two times the normal fee for the associated building/use permit, conditional
use permit, variance, and/or rezoning plus the cost of the postage for mailing
the aforementioned notice. The payment of the administrative fee shall not
relieve such person from the provisions of division (B) below.
      (3)   Any administrative fee or penalty imposed under the provisions of
this chapter shall be in addition to any other fees or charges required under
this chapter.
   (B)   It is declared unlawful for any owner or agent of a building or
premises in or upon which a violation of any provision of these regulations has
been committed or shall exist, or the lessee or tenant of an entire building or
entire premises in or upon which violation has been committed or shall exist,
or the agent, architect, building contractor or any other person who commits,
takes part or assists in any violation or who maintains any building or
premises in or upon which such violation shall exist to violate any of the
terms and provisions of these regulations or other official control adopted by
the City Council pursuant thereto. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter may be subject to a civil or criminal penalty. The penalty for
violation of this chapter shall be $500 or imprisonment for not more than 30
days, or both, and in addition the violator shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each and every day that such violation continues after
notification shall constitute a separate offense. All fines for violation shall
be paid to the City Finance Officer and shall be credited to the general fund
of the city.
   (C)   In the event any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, converted, repaired, or, maintained; or any building or
structure or land is used in violation of this chapter or other regulation the
Administrative Official, or the city, as a corporation or any interested
person, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus, or
any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use of
land, to restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of
said building or land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use
in, to, and of such premises.
   (D)   Any taxpayer of the city may institute mandamus proceedings in Circuit
Court to compel specific performance by the proper official or officials of any
duty required by these regulations. A retail store supplying meat and poultry
products where meat processing is limited to making cuts of meat from pre-
processed carcasses.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 9-5-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Cites Code Section
SDCL Cites        Code Section
1-27-35           31.20
Chapter 3-23      31.19
Chapter 5-18A     31.19
Chapter 6-1       31.19
9-1-1             10.02;
                  10.04
9-8-4             30.01
9-8-8             30.02
9-13-13           10.04
9-18-1.1          31.20
9-19-1            10.04
                  10.99;
9-19-3            33.99;
                  130.99
9-21-34           32.01
9-22-21           31.22
9-22-23           31.22
9-33-11           91.07
9-34-17           113.02
                  33.01;
Chapter 10-45     33.02;
                  33.99
                  33.01;
Chapter 10-46     33.04;
                  33.99
Chapter 10-52     33.01;
                  33.03
10-52A            33.16
10-52A-2          33.15;
                  33.17
Chapter 11-4      151.001;
                  151.003
11-4-6         151.002
11-4-20           151.042
11-4-23           151.044
Chapter 11-6      151.001
11-6-2            151.100
11-6-39           151.021
11-12-1—11-12-6 113.03
21-10-5—21-10-9 92.99
22-6-2(2)         10.99
22-24-1.2         130.02
Chapter 22-25     130.06
22-25-23—22-25-2130.06
32-5-90           71.04
Chapter 32-14     70.01
Chapter 32-15     70.01
Chapter 32-17     70.01
Chapter 32-18     70.01
Chapter 32-19     70.01
32-20-13          71.07
Chapter 32-22     70.01
Chapter 32-26     70.01
Chapter 32-27     70.01
Chapter 32-28     70.01
Chapter 32-29     70.01
Chapter 32-30     70.01
Chapter 32-31     70.01
Chapter 32-32     70.01
Chapter 32-33     70.01
Chapter 32-34     70.01
34-37-2           91.09
35-1-1            33.15;
                  33.17
Chapter 35-4      112.16
35-4-10.2         112.17
35-4-79           112.02
35-4-79.4         112.02
42-7A-64          113.01
Chapter 43-15A    151.100
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code   2023 Code
1.04.010     10.04
1.08.010     11.01
1.08.020     11.02
1.08.030     11.03
Chapter 1.12 10.99
2.04.010     30.01
2.04.020     30.02
2.04.030     30.03
2.04.040     30.04
2.04.050     32.01
2.08.010     31.15
2.08.020     31.16
2.08.030     31.17
2.08.040     31.18
2.08.050     31.18
2.08.060     31.19
2.08.070     31.20
2.08.080     31.20
2.08.090     31.21
2.12.010     31.22
2.12.030     31.23
2.16.010     31.35
2.16.020     31.35
2.16.030     31.35
2.16.080     31.35
2.16.110     31.35
2.16.120     31.35
2.18.010     31.36
2.18.020     31.36
2.18.030     31.36
2.18.040     31.36
2.18.050     31.36
2.18.060     31.36
2.18.070     31.36
2.19.030     31.37
2.19.050     31.37
2.32.010     31.01
2.32.020     31.01
3.04.010     32.02
3.04.020     32.03
3.04.030     32.04
3.14.010     33.01
3.14.020     33.02
3.14.030     33.03
3.14.060     33.04
3.14.070     33.01
3.14.080     33.99
3.16.010     33.15
3.16.020     33.15
3.16.030     33.16
3.16.040     33.17
3.16.050     33.18
3.16.070     33.99
3.24.010     32.05
5.04.010     110.01
5.04.020     110.02
5.08.010     112.01
5.08.020     112.15
5.08.040     112.16
5.08.050     112.17
5.08.055     112.02
5.08.060     112.03
5.08.070     112.03
5.08.080     112.03;
             112.99
5.08.100     112.20
5.08.101     112.18
5.08.105     112.19
5.08.110     112.21
5.12.010     111.01
5.12.020     111.02
5.12.030     111.03
5.12.040     111.04
5.12.050     111.99
5.16.010     113.16
5.16.020     113.15
5.16.030     113.17
5.16.040     113.17
5.16.060     113.20
5.16.070     113.18
5.16.080     113.19
5.20.010     113.35
5.20.020     113.38
5.20.030     113.36
5.20.040     113.37
5.20.050     113.37
5.24.010     110.03
5.24.020     110.04
5.24.030     113.01
5.28.010     113.02
5.32.010     113.03
6.04.010     90.01
6.04.020     90.20
6.04.030     90.20
6.04.040     90.21
6.04.050     90.22
6.04.060     90.03;
             90.99
6.04.065     90.03;
             90.99
6.04.070     90.04;
             90.99
6.04.075     90.02;
             90.99
6.04.080     90.07
6.04.090     90.06
6.04.095     90.05
6.04.100     90.99
8.04.010     93.01
8.04.020     93.02
8.04.030     93.02
8.04.040     93.03
8.04.050     93.03
8.04.060     93.04
8.04.070     93.04
8.04.080     93.05
8.04.090     93.99
8.08.010     91.01
8.08.020     91.02
8.08.030     91.03
8.08.040     91.20
8.08.050     91.04
8.08.060     91.99
8.12.010     91.05
8.12.020     91.21
8.12.030     91.24
8.12.040     91.06
8.12.050     91.22
8.12.060     91.26
8.12.070     91.28
8.12.080     91.27
8.12.090     91.25
8.12.100     91.23
8.12.200     91.07
8.16.010     51.01
8.16.020     51.03
8.16.040     51.03
8.16.050     51.05
8.16.055     51.05;
             51.99
8.16.060     91.08
8.16.070     51.06
8.16.080     51.02
8.16.090     51.02
8.16.100     51.07
8.16.120     51.99
8.16.130     51.04
8.16.135     51.04;
             51.99
8.16.140     51.08
8.20.010     92.30
8.20.020     92.31
8.20.030     92.32
8.24.010     92.03
8.24.020     92.17
8.24.030     92.01
8.24.040     92.15
8.24.050     92.02
8.24.060     92.16
8.24.070     92.99
8.24.080     92.04
9.04.010     130.01
9.04.020     130.25
9.04.030     130.02
9.04.040     130.04
9.04.050     130.03
9.04.060     130.27
9.04.070     130.05;
             130.99
9.04.080     130.06
9.04.090     130.07;
             130.99
9.08.010     130.41
9.08.020     130.42
9.08.030     130.43
9.08.040     130.44
9.12.010     130.09
9.12.020     130.08
9.12.030     130.08
9.16.010     91.09
9.16.020     130.26
9.20.010     130.40;
             130.99
9.25.010     113.50
9.25.020     113.56
9.25.030     113.51
9.25.040     113.52
9.25.050     113.53
9.25.060     113.54
9.25.070     113.55
9.25.080     113.56
9.25.090     113.57
9.25.100     113.58
9.25.990     113.99
10.04.010    70.01
10.04.030    70.15
10.04.035    70.16
10.04.040    70.17
10.08.010    71.01
10.08.020    71.05
10.08.030    71.02
10.08.050    71.06
10.08.060    71.02
10.08.070    71.08
10.08.080    71.03
10.08.090    71.04
10.08.100    71.05
10.080.040   71.07
12.08.010    150.01
12.08.020    150.02
12.08.030    150.03
12.08.040    150.04
12.08.050    152.05
12.08.060    150.06
12.08.070    150.07
12.12.010    150.20
12.12.020    150.20
12.12.030    150.21
12.12.040    150.22
12.12.050    150.23
12.12.060    150.24;
             150.99
12.12.070    150.25;
             150.99
12.14.010    Chapter 72, Schedule I
12.16.010    150.40
12.16.025    150.99
12.16.030    150.41
12.16.040    150.42
12.16.045    150.43
12.16.050    150.41
12.16.060    150.44
12.16.070    150.99
12.16.075    150.45
12.20.010    150.26
12.20.020    150.26
12.24.010    94.15
12.24.020    94.17
12.24.030    94.18
12.24.040    94.16
12.24.050    94.19
12.24.060    94.19
12.24.070    94.19
12.24.080    94.19
12.28.010    94.01
13.04.010    50.01
13.04.020    50.01
13.08.010    52.02
13.08.020    52.20
13.08.030    52.35
13.08.040    52.36
13.08.050    52.37
13.08.060    52.06
13.08.070    52.03;
             52.99
13.08.080    52.38
13.08.090    52.04
13.08.100    52.50
13.08.110    52.50
13.08.120    52.51
13.08.125    52.07
13.08.126    52.07
13.08.130    52.21
13.08.135    52.22
13.08.140    52.01
13.08.155    52.08
13.08.156    52.53
13.08.160    52.52
13.08.170    52.23
13.12.010    52.05;
             52.99
13.16.010    53.01
13.16.020    53.02
13.16.030    53.20
13.16.040    53.03
13.16.050    53.04
13.16.060    53.04
13.16.070    53.23
13.16.080    53.21
13.16.090    53.22
13.16.100    53.24
13.16.110    53.99
13.20.010    50.02
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
81-7     - -         130.09
85-6     - -         93.01
86-2     - -         110.03
86-3     - -         110.04
86-5     - -         150.24
                     93.02—
86-6     - -         93.05;
                     93.99
                     33.15—
88-1     - -         33.18;
                     33.99
                     53.01;
90-2     - -         53.04;
                     53.22;
                     53.23
90-3     - -         130.06
90-9     - -         91.23
90-10    - -         150.24
92-2     - -         10.99
                     52.03;
92-3     - -         52.51;
                     53.21
93-2     - -         150.26
                     51.01—
                     51.03;
94-1     - -         51.05;
                     51.06;
                     51.08;
                     51.99
95-2     - -         150.23
95-5     - -         112.20
                     150.41;
97-6     - -         150.42;
                     150.44
                     90.01;
                     90.03;
98-5     - -         90.04;
                     90.20—
                     90.22
00-1     - -         90.20—
                     90.22
00-2     - -         52.05;
                     52.99
01-9A    - -         150.44
                     33.15;
01-15    - -         33.17;
                     33.99
                     110.01;
01-16    - -         112.01;
                     113.19;
                     113.38
01-18    - -         130.01;
                     130.02
01-19    - -         71.04
01-20    - -         52.20;
                     52.36
01-22    - -         53.20;
                     53.21
01-98    - -         130.03
02-3     - -         33.16
                     92.01;
                     92.02;
03-1     - -         92.04;
                     92.15;
                     92.16;
                     92.99
03-6     - -         70.15
03-8     - -         94.01
04-1     - -         150.42
04-5     - -         51.08
05-2     - -         51.07
05-4     - -         52.52
05-6     - -         52.23;
                     52.99
05-8     - -         70.17
05-12    - -         90.02;
                     90.99
05-13    - -         150.26
                     33.01—
05-14    - -         33.04;
                     33.99
05-18    - -         52.01
06-3     - -         52.21
06-9     - -         52.08
06-10    - -         53.04;
                     53.99
07-2     - -         111.02
07-02    - -         111.99
07-3     - -         50.02
07-7     - -         10.99
07-10    - -         32.05
07-11    - -         130.40
07-15    - -         150.41
08-4     - -         51.04;
                     51.99
08-5     - -         112.18
08-9     - -         150.25;
                     150.99
08-10    - -         130.07
08-11    - -         112.21
09-3     4-9-2009    130.07;
                     130.99
09-4     5-7-2009    51.04
09-5     5-7-2009    113.02
09-6     5-7-2009    113.03
09-10    9-3-2009    112.19;
                     112.20
09-12    9-3-2009    111.02;
                     111.03
09-13    10-5-2009   130.05;
                     130.99
09-14    10-5-2009   91.07
09-15    11-5-2009   52.21
09-19    12-30-2009  150.07
09-20    1-7-2010    111.04
                     150.41;
10-1     2-4-2010    150.42;
                     150.44;
                     150.99
10-4     4-8-2010    52.07;
                     52.53
10-5     4-8-2010    70.16
                     52.01;
                     52.20;
10-7     8-5-2010    52.22;
                     52.35;
                     52.50
                     53.01;
10-8     9-9-2010    53.04;
                     53.20;
                     53.21
10-9     10-5-2010   51.04
10-11    11-9-2010   52.38
10-13    12-30-2010  31.35
10-15    12-30-2010  31.36
10-16    12-30-2010  31.37
10-17    12-30-2010  112.03;
                     112.99
11-1     2-8-2011    150.43;
                     150.45
11-2     2-8-2011    Chapter 72, Schedule I
                     113.50—
11-3     5-5-2011    113.58;
                     113.99
11-4     5-5-2011    112.21
11-07    8-4-2011    52.35;
                     52.38
11-10    9-8-2011    32.05
11-13    12-8-2011   111.03
11-15    12-29-2011  52.50
11-16    12-29-2011  11.03
12-1     4-5-2012    50.02
12-2     6-7-2012    31.15—
                     31.21
12-7     12-6-2012   51.05;
                     51.99
13-01    9-5-2013    70.15
13-03    9-5-2013    11.03
14-02    4-8-2014    52.35
14-03    5-8-2014    150.40
14-08    11-6-2014   112.17
15-01    4-9-2015    30.01—
                     30.04
15-06    9-17-2015   113.01
16-02    4-21-2016   30.01
                     112.02;
16-03    5-4-2016    112.03;
                     112.99
16-06    10-19-2016  52.21;
                     52.51
18-01    3-1-2018    150.99
                     52.01;
18-02    6-1-2018    52.07;
                     52.50
18-03    6-1-2018    53.01
                     90.01—
                     90.07;
18-05    6-1-2018    90.20—
                     90.22;
                     90.99
                     112.02;
                     112.03;
18-06    6-1-2018    112.16—
                     112.19;
                     112.21;
                     112.99
18-04    7-9-2018    110.01;
                     110.02
18-10    11-1-2018   31.19
19-01    6-3-2019    90.05
20-02    5-21-2020   112.16
20-03    7-16-2020   90.05
21-02    8-23-2021   32.01
21-03    8-23-2021   70.17
21-08    12-20-2021  11.03
22-01    4-7-2022    91.09
                     90.01—
22-03    8-4-2022    90.04;
                     90.99
                     110.01;
22-04    11-3-2022   110.02;
                     112.16
                     151.001—
                     151.003;
                     151.020—
                     151.027;
24-01    9-5-2024    151.040—
                     151.044;
                     151.060—
                     151.082;
                     151.100;
                     151.999
                    
 
 
