WEBSTER, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor          Michael Grosek
Council member Josh Bartos
Council member Mike Dunse
Council member Jim Grimes
Council member Dale Miller
Council member Wayne Klungseth
Council member Derek Sinner
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Captions
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “code”, for which
designation “code of ordinances”, or “codified ordinances” may be substituted.
Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part of the law
as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
      (1)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding, and the like, see
SDCL 9-1-1
§ 10.03  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARSD. Administrative Rules of South Dakota.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNTY. Day County, South Dakota.
(SDCL 9-1-1)
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
(SDCL 9-1-1)
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the City of Webster.
(SDCL 9-1-1)
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
(SDCL 9-1-1)
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Webster.
(SDCL 9-1-1)
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
(SDCL 9-19-1)
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the County Register of Deeds, or his or her heirs or successors.
(SDCL 9-1-1)
   PUBLICATION. Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL 9-13-13. Personal service either within or without the state
upon the person affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to
be published shall be equivalent to the required publication.
(SDCL 9-1-1)
   RESOLUTION. Any determination that, decision, or direction of the governing
body of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
(SDCL 9-19-1)
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   STREET.STREET includes AVENUE.
(SDCL 9-1-1)
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.05  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.06  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07  REFERENCES TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09  POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS;
GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise, or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations as may be proper and necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF AN ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.14  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Except in cases where a different or additional penalty is imposed by this
code or by some existing provision of law, every violation of any of the
provisions of this code shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $200 or by
imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-1)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
35.35
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY GOVERNMENT
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATION
      
32.   ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   HEALTH REGULATIONS
      
35.   FINANCES
CHAPTER 30: CITY GOVERNMENT
Section
Appointive Officers
   
30.001   Appointive officer; method of appointment
   
30.002   Appointive officers; salaries and bonds
   
30.003   Compensation
   
30.004   Personnel policies
Mayor and City Council
   
30.015   Regular meetings
   
30.016   Special meetings
   
30.017   Adjournment of meetings
   
30.018   City Council
   
30.019   City Attorney
   
30.020   Committees
   
30.021   Boards and commissions
   
30.022   Salaries of Mayor, Council, and the like
   
30.023   Restrictions on lobbying
Organization; Aldermanic Form
   
30.035   Mayor; qualifications, term, and powers
   
30.036   Vacancy in office of Mayor; temporary absence or disability
   
30.037   City council; membership; terms of office
   
30.038   President and Vice President; election; powers
   
30.039   Power of Council to judge members and govern proceedings; bribery
   
30.040   Meetings; quorum; journal of meetings
   
30.041   Votes required
   
30.042   Reconsideration or recision
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
30.060   Style of ordinances; subject
   
30.061   Readings, passage and publication
   
30.062   Effective date of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.063   Compilation of ordinances
   
30.064   Continuation in force of ordinances after change in form of government
   
30.065   Vetoed ordinance
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
§ 30.001  APPOINTIVE OFFICER; METHOD OF APPOINTMENT.
   All appointive officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the City Council at the first regular meeting in May, and shall hold office
until their successor shall be appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 30.002  APPOINTIVE OFFICERS; SALARIES AND BONDS.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting in May of each year, there shall be
appointed by the governing body a Library Board, Housing Authority Commission,
and Planning Commission. All such appointments shall be made by the Mayor with
the approval of Council.
   (B)   All others shall be considered paid employees, or in the case of the
City Attorney or other professionals, shall be independent contractors
appointed by a majority of the governing body.
   (C)   All salaries for employees of the city fixed by ordinance or by
resolution of the governing body shall be paid semi-monthly, or at such time as
determined by the governing body by resolution. All salaries are to be
published once a year in the local newspaper.
   (D)   All salaries and bonds for appointive officers and employees of the
city fixed by ordinance or by resolution of the governing body shall be
adjusted as deemed necessary by resolution of the governing body of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 30.003  COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of city employees not named above shall be fixed by motion
or resolution at any time regardless of the time when any city employee may
have been appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 30.004  PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The vacations and sick leave policy, in effect, is on file in the office of
the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4)
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.015  REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular monthly meetings of the City Council shall be held at the
Municipal Building in said city on the first Monday of each month, except when
Monday is a legal holiday, and in that case the meeting shall be held on a
specified date.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 30.016  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the City Council may be held at any time on call
of the Mayor, or in case of absence or inability to act, then by the President
of the Council; or if the Mayor and President of the Council refuse to act,
then by three of the Council members.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Finance Officer to contact the Council
members before the time specified for such meetings, and this may be done by
telephone.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 30.017  ADJOURNMENT OF MEETINGS.
   Any regular or special meeting may be adjourned to meet at a later date to
be fixed at the time of adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 30.018  CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall consist of a Mayor elected at large and two Council
members elected from and by the electors of each ward of the city. The Mayor
shall serve a term of two years. The Council members shall serve a term of two
years. The Mayor and City Council shall have such authority and perform such
duties as are prescribed by the statutes of the state and the city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
§ 30.019  CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall attend Council meetings and such other
meetings as requested by the Mayor, draw ordinances and other documents which
the Mayor or the City Council shall direct. The City Attorney shall offer
professional legal advice on matters brought before the City Council.
   (B)   From time to time, the City Attorney may be called upon to render
extraordinary services to the city. This shall include, but not be limited to,
representation of the city in courts or administrative hearings, providing
legal services concerning major improvements or construction being done by the
city, and any other task which takes an amount of time beyond the scope of his
or her normal duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-5)
§ 30.020  COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor may appoint such committees of the members of the City Council as
he or she deems desirable to accomplish an efficient division of the work and
duties to be preformed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-6)
§ 30.021  BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   The City Council shall have the authority to create such boards and
commissions as are allowed under the statutes of the state as it may consider
necessary and desirable and shall make such bylaws, rules, and regulations as
are necessary for the orderly transaction and conduct of its business, of which
a record shall be placed on file in the office of the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-7)
§ 30.022  SALARIES OF MAYOR, COUNCIL, AND THE LIKE.
   The salaries of the Mayor and City Council members shall be fixed by
resolution and said amounts shall be placed on file in the office of the City
Finance Officer. Compensation for board or commission members shall be fixed by
ordinance or resolution, which shall be placed on file in the office of the
City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-8)
§ 30.023  RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING.
   (A)   No federal appropriated funds will be paid by, or on behalf of, the
city to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or
employee of any federal agency, member of Congress, an officer or employee of
Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with the
awarding of any federal contract, the making of any federal grant, the making
of any federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the
extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any federal
contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
   (B)   If any funds other than federal appropriated funds have been paid or
will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an
officer or employee of any federal agency, a member of Congress, an officer or
employee of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with
any federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the city shall
complete and submit Standard Form - LLL, “Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying”,
in accordance with its instructions.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-9)
ORGANIZATION; ALDERMANIC FORM
§ 30.035  MAYOR; QUALIFICATIONS, TERM, AND POWERS.
   (A)   Executive. The chief executive officer of the city under the
aldermanic form shall be a Mayor.
(SDCL § 9-8-1)
   (B)   Qualifications. No person is eligible to be nominated, elected, or
appointed as a Mayor unless such person is a citizen of the United States, a
voter of and resident of the city, and, if a Council member, a voter of and
resident of the ward for which the person is to hold office.
(SDCL § 9-8-1.1)
   (C)   Term. The Mayor shall hold office for a term of not less than two nor
more than five years as determined by ordinance. A person may hold office for
more than one term.
(SDCL § 9-8-1)
   (D)   Powers.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the council but shall
have no vote except in case of a tie.
      (2)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by
the laws and ordinances, and take care that such laws and ordinances are
faithfully executed.
      (3)   He or she shall annually and or as may be necessary, give the
Council information relative to the affairs of the city, and shall recommend
for Council’s consideration such measures as he or she may deem expedient.
      (4)   He or she shall have the power to sign or veto any ordinance or
resolution passed by the City Council, and the power to veto any part or item
of an ordinance or resolution appropriating money. Pursuant to SDCL § 9-19-10,
the veto, with written objections must be filed with the Finance Officer within
ten days after final passage.
(SDCL § 9-8-3)
§ 30.036  VACANCY IN OFFICE OF MAYOR; TEMPORARY ABSENCE OR DISABILITY.
   If there is a vacancy from any cause in the office of the Mayor, the vacancy
shall be filled by appointment by a majority vote of the members-elect of the
Council members as soon as practicable after the vacancy occurs, to serve until
the office is filled by election for the unexpired term at the next annual
municipal election or by special election as provided in SDCL § 9-13-14.2.
Until the vacancy is filled or during the time of temporary absence or
disability of the Mayor, the powers and duties of Mayor shall be executed by
the President of the Council as provided in §
30.038.
(SDCL § 9-8-2)
§ 30.037  CITY COUNCIL; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Membership. The City Council shall consist of the Mayor elected at
large and two Council members elected from and by the voters of each ward of
the municipality.
   (B)   Term. The term of office shall be for two years, unless a municipality
adopts an ordinance establishing the term of office to be three, four, or five
years. The Mayor and Council members shall hold office until successors are
elected and qualified. At the first election of Council members, the Council
shall stagger the initial terms of the Council members in each ward to provide
that the two Council members are not up for reelection in the same year. A
person may hold office for more than one term. A vacancy on the City Council
shall be filled as provided in SDCL §§ 9-13-14.1 or 9-13-14.2
(SDCL § 9-8-4)
   (C)   Eligibility. No person is eligible to be nominated, elected, or
appointed as a Mayor or as an Council members unless such person is a citizen
of the United States, a voter of and resident of the city, and, if a Council
member, a voter of and resident of the ward for which such person is to hold
office.
§ 30.038  PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT; ELECTION; POWERS.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting after the annual election in each year
and after the qualification of the newly elected Council members, the Council
shall elect from among its own members a President and Vice President, who
shall hold their respective offices for the municipal year.
   (B)   The President of the Council in the absence of the Mayor shall be the
presiding officer of the council, and during the absence of the Mayor from the
first or second class municipality or his or her temporary disability shall be
Acting Mayor and possess all the powers of the Mayor. In the absence or
disability of the Mayor and President of the Council the Vice President shall
perform the duties of the Mayor and President of the Council.
   (C)   However, the President of the Council or Vice President of the Council
acting as the Mayor shall only vote as a Council member. No Council member
acting as Mayor may vote as the Mayor to break a tie vote.
(SDCL § 9-8-7)
§ 30.039  POWER OF COUNCIL TO JUDGE MEMBERS AND GOVERN PROCEEDINGS; BRIBERY.
   (A)   The Council shall be the judge of the election and qualification of
its own members. It shall determine its own rules of procedure, punish its
members for disorderly conduct, and, with the concurrence of two-thirds of the
Council members elected thereto, may expel a member.
   (B)   Any Council member who shall have been convicted of bribery shall
thereby vacate his or her office. (SDCL § 9-8-5)
§ 30.040  MEETINGS; QUORUM; JOURNAL OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Meetings. The Council shall hold its regular meetings on the first
Monday of each month. It may prescribe by ordinance the manner in which special
meetings may be called and may so change the day of its regular monthly
meetings.
   (B)   Quorum. When a seat on Council is vacant due to removal, resignation,
death, or by operation of law, the quorum consists of the majority of the
remaining Council members who are qualified to serve as Council members by
election or appointment pursuant to SDCL Chapter 9-13. The Council may compel
the attendance of absentees under such penalties as may be prescribed by
ordinance.
   (C)   Journal of meetings. The meetings of the Council are open to the
public and it shall keep a journal of its proceedings.
(SDCL § 9-8-8)
§ 30.041  VOTES REQUIRED.
   (A)   A roll call vote shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances and
upon any proposal to expend or appropriate money, and in all other cases at the
request of any member. All votes shall be entered in the minutes of its
proceedings.
   (B)   The majority vote of the Council members shall be necessary to pass an
ordinance or proposal which expends or appropriates money, and the Mayor may
not break a tie on an ordinance or proposal to expend or appropriate money. The
Mayor may break a tie on all other ordinances or proposals.
   (C)   A two-thirds vote of the Council members is required to sell any city
property.
(SDCL § 9-8-10)
§ 30.042  RECONSIDERATION OR RECISION.
   A vote of the Council may be reconsidered or rescinded at a regular or
special meeting if a quorum is present and a majority vote to reconsider or
rescind the action.
(SDCL §9-8-11)
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 30.060  STYLE OF ORDINANCES; SUBJECT.
   (A)   Ordinances must be in the following style:
      (1)   An Ordinance____________ (Insert Title);
      (2)   Be it ordained by (city or town) of_________ (insert name of the
municipality). The substance of the ordinance follows.
(SDCL § 9-19-6)
   (B)   Ordinances can only embrace one subject which must be expressed in its
title.
(SDCL § 9-19-5)
§ 30.061  READINGS, PASSAGE AND PUBLICATION.
   (A)   All ordinances shall be read twice by title with at least five days
between each reading, The ordinances, if passed, shall be signed by the Mayor
or Acting Mayor or president of the Board of Trustees, and filed with the
Finance Officer and published once.
(SDCL § 9-19-7)
   (B)   (1)   After being signed and filed, the ordinances must be published
at least once in the official newspaper. The only exception to this is that an
ordinance incorporating or adopting comprehensive regulations or a code
promulgated, approved, and published by a recognized and established national
organization prescribing building, electrical, plumbing, safety, fire, health,
or milk regulations need not be published in newspaper but upon adoption of
such an ordinance the auditor or clerk shall publish a notice of the fact of
adoption once a week for two successive weeks in the official newspaper, and 20
days after the completed publication of such notice, unless the referendum
shall have been invoked, such ordinance shall become effective.
(SDCL § 9-19-7)
      (2)   If any amendment presented and approved by the governing body at
the second reading of an ordinance substantially alters the substance of the
ordinance from the first reading, the proposed ordinance as amended may not be
considered for final adoption until at least five days after a duly noticed
public meeting of the governing body pursuant to SDCL Chapter 1-25.
(SDCL § 9-19-7.1)
      (3)   The vote on the second reading of all ordinances must be recorded
and published.
(SDCL § 9-19-9)
   (C)   Amendments to a planning or zoning ordinance may be published without
republishing the full ordinance in the section or subsection of the ordinance
containing the change is published in its entirety. (SDCL § 11-4-8)
   (D)   Resolutions differ from ordinances in that any resolution may be
passed after only one reading. The resolution must be recorded at length either
separately or in the minutes of the meeting. The votes for and against the
resolution must also be published.
(SDCL § 9-19-8)
§ 30.062  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Unless an ordinance or resolution is drawn to take effect immediately upon
passage, all ordinances and resolutions become effective on the twentieth day
after passage and publication, unless suspended by operation of a referendum.
(SDCL § 9-19-13)
§ 30.063  COMPILATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Municipalities can compile the ordinances of the municipality in book
form provided that while compiling the ordinances they are not revised or
amended. The Finance Officer shall furnish a free copy of the newly compiled
book to the circuit clerk of court and the county law library of each county in
which the municipality is situated.
(SDCL § 9-19-15)
   (B)   Every municipality also has the power to revise their ordinances once
every five years.
(SDCL § 9-19-16)
   (C)   (1)   Upon the adoption of an ordinance which revises the ordinances
of the municipality by the governing body, the auditor or clerk shall publish a
notice of the adoption of the revised ordinances once in the official
newspaper. Twenty days after the completed publication of the notice, unless
the referendum is invoked, the ordinance shall become effective without
publication in a newspaper.
      (2)   The governing body may publish the revised ordinances in book form.
The auditor or clerk shall furnish a free copy of the book or the revised
ordinances to the circuit clerk of court and the county law library of each
county in which the municipality is situated.
(SDCL §9-19-17)
   (D) If a municipality posts the ordinance book or any part of the book on
the municipality’s official website, the municipality shall ensure the most
current version of the ordinance book or any part of the book is posted.
(SDCL § 9-19-14.1)
§ 30.064  CONTINUATION IN FORCE OF ORDINANCES AFTER CHANGE IN FORM OF
GOVERNMENT.
   Any ordinance or resolution of this municipality shall continue in force and
effect the same as though no change of government has occurred.
(SDCL§ 9-11-10)
§ 30.065  VETOED ORDINANCE.
   If the Mayor vetoes any ordinance, resolution, or other item pursuant to
SDCL § 9-19-10 the Finance Officer shall present the ordinance, resolution, or
other item with the Mayor’s written objection at the next meeting of the
Council and it may be reconsidered. If the ordinance or resolution is passed by
a two-thirds vote of the Council members, it shall be published and become
effective notwithstanding the Mayor’s disapproval.
(SDCL § 9-19-11)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATION
Section
Territory
   
31.01   Boundaries
   
31.02   Wards
   
31.03   Precincts
   
31.04   Annexation
TERRITORY
§ 31.01  BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate limits of the city shall be declared to be such as have been
legally established and amended by law and ordinance of the city as shown on
the official map on file in the office of the Finance Officer. Such map shall
be incorporated in this section by reference and adopted as the official map
showing the boundaries and limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 31.02  WARDS.
   The city is divided into three wards as follows.
   (A)   First ward. All of the city which is north of 9th Avenue West except
west of 7th Street West, which will be north of 10th Avenue West, and all of
the city which is north of 12th Avenue East from Main Street to 6th Street
East, north of 10th Avenue East from 6th Street East to 7th Street East, and
north of 9th Avenue East from 7th Street East to the city limits.
   (B)   Second ward. All of the city which is south of 12th Avenue East from
Main Street to 6th Street East, south of 10th Avenue East from 6th Street East
to 7th Street East, and south of 9th Avenue East from 7th Street East to the
city limits.
   (C)   Third ward. All of the city which is south of 9th Avenue West, except
west of 7th Street West which will be south of 10th Avenue West.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 31.03  PRECINCTS.
   Each of the three said wards shall constitute a separate voting precinct and
comprise the three election precincts of the county within said city now
numbered first ward, second ward, and third ward; provided that the City
Council may, for the purpose of any particular election, combine any two or
more of such precincts according to law.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1)
§ 31.04  ANNEXATION.
   (A)   At the time of such annexation, the owners petitioning for such
annexation shall file written undertaking signed by sureties satisfactory to
the City Council in such penal sum as it may require, but in no case in excess
of the estimated cost of all necessary storm sewers, sanitary sewers, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, and of dust-proofing, which undertaking shall provide that
all of said improvements shall be made as ordered by the City Council,
otherwise the penal sum mentioned in the bond shall be forfeited to the city,
or in lieu of furnishing such bond the owners, prior to the annexation may
install all of said improvements, and the petitioners for annexation shall show
that such improvements have been previously installed by petitioning for such
annexation.
   (B)   All such sanitary sewers, storm sewers, curbs, gutters, and sidewalks
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the grades and
specifications established by the City Engineer and approved by the Mayor and
City Council. All engineering work necessary for the establishment of grade
lines to comply with the grades and specifications of the city shall be done by
the owner at the owner’s expense, but shall be, prior to any construction,
approved by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 2-4-1)
CHAPTER 32: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Statement of purpose and intent
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   General enforcement authority
   
32.04   General duties
   
32.05   Authority to inspect
   
32.06   Administrative citations
   
32.07   Administrative citation procedures
   
32.08   Appeal and administrative hearing
   
32.09   Hearing procedures
   
32.10   Right of parties at hearings
   
32.11   Decision
   
32.12   Report; costs
   
32.13   Appeal to circuit court
   
32.14   Administrative citation penalties assessed
   
32.15   Failure to pay administrative citation penalties
   
32.16   Scope of enforcement
   
32.17   Fines
   
32.18   Remedies not exclusive
§ 32.01  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The city has determined that the enforcement of the city’s code is an
important public service and is vital to the protection of the public’s health,
safety, and welfare. The city has determined that there is a need for
alternative methods of comprehensive code enforcement using both administrative
and judicial remedies.
   (B)   The city has also determined that because safety issues may be
regulated through an administrative enforcement process, penalties for
violation should be enhanced.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be administered by and report to
the Mayor and City Council. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be appointed by
the Mayor and be an employee of the city. The appointment of the Code
Enforcement Officer shall be approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-1)
§ 32.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES. Administrative citations and civil
penalties as contained in this chapter.
   CIVIL PENALTY. The administrative civil penalty assessed and all costs
incurred by the city from the first discovery of the violations until
compliance is achieved. It includes, but is not limited to, staff time and
expense in inspecting the property, sending notices, and preparing reports and
files.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any city employee or agent of the city with the
authority to enforce any provision of this code and issue notice of violations
or administrative citations.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any person or persons in charge of the premises or
location the person or persons responsible for the event or incident, and
includes any of the following:
      (1)   The person or persons who own the property where the violation
exists;
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the premises where the
violations exists;
      (3)   The person or persons using the premises when the violation exists;
      (4)   If any of the above is a minor, a parent or guardian of such minor
shall be the RESPONSIBLE PARTY; and
      (5)   If any of the above is a business entity, the manager or on-site
supervisor where the violation exists.
   ROLLING 12-MONTH PERIOD. Any 12 consecutive months following a violation.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-2)
§ 32.03  GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   For the purposes of this chapter, any Code Enforcement Officer may issue
notices of violation and administrative citations, inspect public and private
property, and enforce any available administrative and judicial remedies.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-3)
§ 32.04  GENERAL DUTIES.
   The general duties of the Code Enforcement Officer shall be, but are not
limited to, the following:
   (A)   To respond to complaints from the public or other city departments and
initiate code enforcement action;
   (B)   Investigate alleged violations, perform inspections, conduct
interviews, document and photograph evidence, and contact responsible party;
issue notice of ordinance violations and administrative citations; enforce any
administrative and judicial remedies; and perform follow-up investigations and
ensure remedial action has been taken. The Code Enforcement Officer may be
required to seek an administrative inspection warrant pursuant to the
procedures provided for in the state  codified laws;
   (C)   Assist departments with the abatement of violations; provide
surveillance, coordinate investigation, and code enforcement activities between
departments and municipalities;
   (D)   Recommend changes to policies, procedures, and ordinances as needed
where deficiencies are discovered during the administrative and judicial
process;
   (E)   Appear as a witness at administrative hearings and judicial
proceedings;
   (F)   Maintain a permanent record of all code enforcement activities,
including copies of correspondence, notifications, investigative reports, and
administrative citations. Prepare and submit statistical reports as required;
and
   (G)   Perform other such duties and functions as are necessary or incidental
to the proper performance of this position.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-4)
§ 32.05  AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   Code enforcement officers may enter upon any property and make any
examination and surveys necessary to perform their enforcement duties.
Inspections may include the taking of photographs, samples, or other physical
evidence. If an owner, occupant, or agent refuses permission to enter, to
inspect, the Code Enforcement Officer may seek an administrative inspection
warrant pursuant to the procedures provided for in the state codified laws.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-5)
§ 32.06  ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of the code for which a civil
penalty may be assessed, may be issued an administrative citation by a Code
Enforcement Officer as provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   A continuing violation of the code constitutes a separate and distinct
violation each day that the violation exists.
   (C)   A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative
citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer and shall be payable directly
to the city.
   (D)   Penalties assessed by an administrative citation shall be collected in
accordance with the schedule of civil penalties.
   (E)   All civil penalties and fines shall be paid at the City Finance Office
at 800 Main Street, Webster, SD.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-6)
§ 32.07  ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A Code Enforcement Officer may issue an administrative citation to a
responsible party as described in this chapter. The citation shall be on forms
approved by the city.
   (B)   If the responsible party is not an individual, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall attempt to issue the owner an administrative citation. If the
owner cannot be located, the administrative citation may be issued in the name
of the entity and given to a manager or on-site supervisor. A copy of the
administrative citation shall also be mailed to the owner.
   (C)   The responsible party shall sign the administrative citation. If the
responsible party refuses or fails to sign the administrative citation, the
failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the validity of the citation.
   (D)   If the Code Enforcement Officer cannot locate a responsible party, the
administrative citation may be mailed to the responsible party as prescribed in
division (B) above.
   (E)   If no one can be located at the property, the administrative citation
may be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the property and a copy
subsequently mailed to the responsible party as provided in division (B) above.
   (F)   The failure of any responsible party to receive notice shall not
affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this chapter.
   (G)   Notice by mail shall be by either first class or certified mail,
return receipt requested.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-7)
§ 32.08  APPEAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   Any administrative citation issued pursuant to this chapter may be appealed
to the City Council in the following manner.
   (A)   If the responsible party disputes the issuance of any administrative
citation issued by this chapter, the responsible party must request in writing
that the matter be appealed to the City Council.
   (B)   The written request may be delivered to City Hall or mailed to City
Hall.
   (C)   The request must be either delivered or postmarked within five
business days of the responsible party receiving the citation.
   (D)   The date of issuance of the citation shall not count toward computing
the five days.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the request for appeal, the Finance Officer shall
schedule the appeal to be heard at the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting after allowing for proper notice.
   (F)   The responsible party requesting the appeal shall be given notice in
writing by the City Finance Officer of the time and place of the appeal
hearing. Notice may be made by mail or personal service and shall be at least
four business days prior to the City Council meeting.
   (G)   At the hearing, the responsible party may provide testimony or
evidence regarding the determination of the Code Enforcement Officer’s
determination.
   (H)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be present to answer any questions
the City Council may have.
   (I)   After hearing from the responsible party and the Code Enforcement
Officer, the City Council shall vote to either uphold or overrule the Code
Enforcement Officer’s determination by a majority of the members present.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-8)
§ 32.09  HEARING PROCEDURES.
   The following rules shall govern the procedures for an appeal or
administrative hearing.
   (A)   Hearing and administrative appeals need not be conducted according to
the technical rules relating to evidence and witnesses.
   (B)   Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Council or Mayor shall administer oath or
affirmations to witnesses.
   (D)   Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the type of evidence
upon which reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious
affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory rule which
might make improper admission of such evidence after objection in civil actions
in a court of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   (E)   Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence and evidence that lack
trustworthiness shall be excluded.
Prior Code, § 6-16-9)
§ 32.10  RIGHT OF PARTIES AT HEARINGS.
   The appellant, the city, and any other party to the appeal shall have these
rights among others:
   (A)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issue of
the hearing;
   (B)   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
   (C)   To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing; and
   (D)   To rebut evidence.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-10)
§ 32.11  DECISION.
   After each appeal hearing, the City Council shall perform the following:
   (A)   Make written findings of fact; and
   (B)    Based upon such written findings, sustain, remand for further hearing
or action, or rescind the complained action or decision. The City Council may
waive any payment or penalty.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-11)
§ 32.12  REPORT; COSTS.
   A written report of the decision, including the findings of fact, shall be
furnished to the appellant and the city within 15 working days from the date of
the appeal hearing. The city and the appellant shall bear the cost of the
appeal proceeding. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-12)
§ 32.13  APPEAL TO CIRCUIT COURT.
   The decision of the City Council may be appealed to circuit court as
approved by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-13)
§ 32.14  ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PENALTIES ASSESSED.
   (A)   Any civil penalties assessed shall be payable to the city within ten
days from the date of the administrative citation.
   (B)   Payment of the civil penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct
the violations nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the city.
   (C)   If the responsible party fails to correct the violation, subsequent
administrative citations may be issued for the same violations. The amount of
the civil penalty shall increase at a rate specified in the ordinance codified
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-14)
§ 32.15  FAILURE TO PAY ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PENALTIES.
   The failure of any person to file a timely appeal or pay the civil penalties
within the time specified on the citation shall constitute an irrebuttable
presumption that a violation has occurred. It may result in the City Attorney
filing legal proceedings in magistrate or circuit court, alternatively the city
may pursue any other legal remedy available to collect the civil penalty or
correct the violation of city ordinance or both.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-15)
§ 32.16  SCOPE OF ENFORCEMENT.
   The civil penalties cited under this chapter apply to all provisions in this
code.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-16)
§ 32.17  FINES.
   The fines for violation of this code within any rolling 12-month period
shall be as follows:
   (A)   First violation: $100;
   (B)   Second violation: $150; and
   (C)   Third or subsequent violation: $200.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-17)
§ 32.18  REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The procedures established in this chapter are in addition to together legal
remedies established by law or city ordinance which may be pursued to address
violations of this code. The use of this chapter shall be at the sole
discretion of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-16-18)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Chief of Police
   
33.02   Code of conduct
   
33.03   Contract with county
§ 33.01  CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Under the direction of the Mayor and City Council, the Chief of Police is
responsible for planning, organizing, and directing the functions of the Police
Department. The Chief of Police determines policies to be followed by personnel
in the Department with respect to public relations, and enforcement of law and
ordinances. The Chief of Police coordinates municipal law enforcement
activities with those of other agencies, analyzes budgetary problems and
submits an annual budget, administers personnel policies and training
requirements, and makes recommendations on all appointments, promotions,
discipline, and dismissals made in the Department. The Chief of Police
maintains a liaison with municipal officials, civic groups, and citizens on law
enforcement concerns.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
§ 33.02  CODE OF CONDUCT.
   Each police officer, when on duty, shall follow the guidelines and
regulations concerning law enforcement employees; wear the insignia of his or
her office on his or her outer garments in a conspicuous place, except when
occasion may require that it not be exposed; and must be quiet, civil, and
orderly in his or her on and off duty conduct and refrain from violent,
profane, obscene and insolent language, and abstain from intoxicating liquor,
insubordination, and dereliction of duty; and it shall be the duty of the Chief
of Police to make complaint to the Mayor or the City Council of any violation
of this section immediately upon obtaining knowledge thereof. All law
enforcement officers in the employ of the city shall be fully certified by the
state.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 33.03  CONTRACT WITH COUNTY.
   The City Council is authorized to contract with the county to care for
either county or city prisoners, and such other terms as may be agreed upon
between the City Council and the County Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
CHAPTER 34: HEALTH REGULATIONS
Section
Health Code
   
34.01   Establishment of appointment
   
34.02   Removal of offensive matter from premises
   
34.03   Services of notices, citations, and orders
   
34.04   Sanitary inspections
Contagious Diseases
   
34.15   Isolation of persons suffering with contagious diseases
   
34.16   Powers of Board and Health Officer
HEALTH CODE
§ 34.01  ESTABLISHMENT OF APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created for the city, a Board of Health to be composed of
the members of the City Council and may also include an active practicing
physician located in the city, to be appointed by the Mayor. The powers and
duties, hereinafter enumerated, shall be subject to the supervision of the
state. The City Finance Officer shall be Secretary of the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 34.02  REMOVAL OF OFFENSIVE MATTER FROM PREMISES.
   The Board of Health shall have power and authority to require any person or
persons owning property within the city to remove all offensive, dangerous, and
deleterious matter from said premises, and to that end shall have power and
authority to enter upon any premises or in any building in the city to examine
the same, and in case there is found to be any offensive, dangerous,
deleterious matter on said premises, or in said building, may direct in writing
the removal thereof; and if such person or persons shall neglect or refuse to
do so for a period of 24 hours after such notice, he or she, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to the penalties as set in §
10.99, together with the expenses of removing such nuisance and costs of
prosecution, and it is hereby made the duty of the Chief of Police, under the
direction of the Board of Health, to remove and abate such nuisance immediately
upon the expiration of 24 hours after the notice aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
§ 34.03  SERVICES OF NOTICES, CITATIONS, AND ORDERS.
   In order to carry out the intent of this chapter, whenever the chapter
provides that notices, citations, and orders are to be made or served by the
Board of Health, such notices, citations, and orders may be made and served in
a like manner and with like effect by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
§ 34.04  SANITARY INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Health shall make frequent inspections of the city and
its environs. In all cases where anything is discovered which might prove
dangerous to health, appropriate action will be taken.
   (B)   Each month, one week prior to the City Council meeting, a member from
the Board of Health shall make a thorough inspection of the streets, alley, and
public grounds in the city and notify the owner or occupant of any property
where filth, manure, straw, or rubbish is permitted to remain upon any street
or alley abutting upon such property. If such owner or occupant shall fail to
comply with such notice, he or she shall be subject to the penalty set by §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-4-1)
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
§ 34.15  ISOLATION OF PERSONS SUFFERING WITH CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
   The Board of Health shall have power within the limits of the city to
isolate all persons suffering with contagious diseases, and to make, demand,
and require of the County Board of Health to immediately remove and care for
all the cases as are not proper charges on said city; and said Board of Health
shall have power to make rules and regulations covering the subject of all
contagious diseases and other matters concerning the public health.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 34.16  POWERS OF BOARD AND HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Board of Health shall have power and authority to enter any premises in
the city in search of contagious diseases or of nuisances, and shall have power
and authority to quarantine any premises within the city, wherein is located
any person suffering with an infectious or contagious disease, and may remove
any person therefrom who is found to be suffering from, suspected to be
suffering from, or has been exposed to any infectious or contagious disease,
and said Board may placard the said premises, as aforesaid with the placard of
such design and color as shall warn all persons within said premises not to
leave the same, and all other persons whomever not to enter said premises
without the written consent of a member of the Board of Health; every physician
practicing in the corporate limits of the city shall immediately report by
telephone, or otherwise, to the Health Officer every case of contagious disease
or infectious disease arising in his or her practice, and shall also report the
suspects to be contagious, and said physician shall within 24 hours after
thereafter make a written report to the Board of Health upon the termination of
said disease, and any person violating this chapter, or violating the order of
the Board of Health, shall upon conviction thereof be subject to the penalties
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: FINANCES
Section
Financial Regulations
   
35.01   Salaries
   
35.02   Waterworks revenues
   
35.03   Sewer revenues
   
35.04   Liquor revenues
   
35.05   Mark up fees
   
35.06   Swimming pools and parks revenue
   
35.07   Miscellaneous revenues
Webster Community Development Fund
   
35.20   Eligibility requirements
   
35.21   Fund expenditures
   
35.22   Project impact factors
   
35.23   Application requirements
   
35.24   Application processing
Fee Schedule
   
35.35   Fee schedule
FINANCIAL REGULATIONS
§ 35.01  SALARIES.
   The salaries of the various officers shall be paid from such funds as may be
from time to time designated by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 35.02  WATERWORKS REVENUES.
   All revenues of the city received from the operation of the city waterworks
shall be paid to the Finance Officer and shall be credited to the Water Fund of
said city.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 35.03  SEWER REVENUES.
   All revenues of the city received from the operation of the city sewer shall
be paid to the Finance Officer and shall be credited to the Sewer Fund of said
city.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-3)
§ 35.04  LIQUOR REVENUES.
   All revenues and lease fees of the city received from the operation of the
city liquor licenses shall be paid into the Liquor Fund of said city.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-4)
§ 35.05  MARK UP FEES.
   All lessees under operation/lease agreement with the city for the sale of
liquor and all licensees licensed in accordance with SDCL 35-4-19 shall
purchase all alcoholic beverages, including malt beverages, from the city. The
city may charge such lessee or licensee a mark up fee up to 10% above the
city’s cost for the liquor or malt beverage plus freight. The city may
establish the mark up fee by resolution. All mark up fees established by the
city shall be charged uniformly to all lessees and licensees except for liquor
versus malt beverage.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-5)
§ 35.06  SWIMMING POOLS AND PARKS REVENUE.
   All revenues of the city received from the operation of parks and swimming
pool shall be paid to the Finance Officer and shall be credited to the General
Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-6)
§ 35.07  MISCELLANEOUS REVENUES.
   All revenues of the city received from licenses, fines, interest, and other
fees shall be paid to the Finance Officer and credited to the General Fund
unless otherwise specifically provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-7)
WEBSTER COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
§ 35.20  ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Any for-profit industry that is a new start-up or an expanding existing
industry creating new and additional jobs which will result in more employment
opportunities in the city area will be eligible to apply for the use of funds
from the city’s Community Development Fund. No monies from the city’s Community
Development Fund shall be loaned for retail businesses.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.21  FUND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The city’s Community Development Fund shall be used for land
acquisition and related development and building construction, acquisition, or
related remodeling projects, purchase of machinery or equipment, which are
determined to enhance industrial development growth. It is proposed that the
monies from the city’s Community Development Fund will be used in a manner that
will result in an ongoing revolving Economic Development Fund. It is the intent
of the City Council that the city’s Community Development Fund be used as a low
interest, secured source of lending for an industry, created solely for the
purposes of promoting development within the city.
   (B)   Funds in the city’s Community Development Fund account shall be held
in an interest bearing account for the purposes set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.22  PROJECT IMPACT FACTORS.
   (A)   The City Council will review, evaluate, and make decisions on specific
project applications.
   (B)   The following factors and other factors deemed appropriate with each
application will be given due consideration:
      (1)   Number and quality of new jobs to be created;
      (2)   Annual payroll and related pay structures;
      (3)   Benefit versus costs effects;
      (4)   Effect on utilities and other services;
      (5)   Effect on environment, health, and safety;
      (6)   Business type and feasibility; and
      (7)   Other appropriate factors.
   (C)   It is the intent of the City Council for the interest rate of the
loans be offered at a below market condition rate to be set by the City
Council. In determining the interest rate to be set for a specific project, the
City Council will give due consideration to the project impact factors listed
above. The attached table has been developed to provide a general guideline
regarding rating projects for interest rate purposes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.23  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Prospective industries will contact the city’s development corporation for
assistance in submitting an application for economic development funding. The
applicant with assistance from the city’s development corporation shall submit
information to the city on application forms prepared by the state’s Economic
Development Board and also on such forms as deemed necessary by the city. The
city application forms are intended to provide detailed information regarding
the proposed specific impacts the industry will have on the local city area.
The provisions of ARSD Chapter 68:02:01 relating to application and borrower
reporting requirements of the state’s economic development regulations shall
also be required by the city. In general, the application forms and related
information will be handled by the city in a confidential manner in accordance
with law.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.24  APPLICATION PROCESSING.
   The City Council shall approve or disapprove a specific project application
request by Board action within 30 days after receiving an application deemed to
be complete. After an application is approved, the city shall execute
agreements as necessary. Agreements shall provide the rights and
responsibilities of all parties and the terms and conditions of the agreement.
Said agreements shall be authorized by resolution pursuant to statute.
(Ord. passed - -)
FEE SCHEDULE
§ 35.35  FEE SCHEDULE.
   The city hereby establishes the following fees and other designations
effective for the 2021 license year (fees are for the calendar year unless
otherwise stated).
Fee Schedule
Subject Fee
Fee Schedule
Subject        Fee
Armory Rental
With
organizations
that request   $500 a day
permission to
serve alcohol
Cemetery Fees
Burials        $650
Cemetery sale
of lots (six   $300
to a one-half
lot)
Cremains       $100
Saturday or
Sunday         $100 extra
services or
holiday
Winter         $650
cremains
Winter storage
of casket in   $25
building
Dogs and Cats
Dog and cat    $5
licenses
Dogs and cats  $25 (§
fail to        90.01)
license
Dogs at large  First offense: $110; second: $160; third: $210 (§§
or barking     90.06 and
               90.07)
Fines and Fees
               Costs of removal and storage, plus see §§
Abandoned      32.01 to
vehicles       32.18 (§§
               93.001 to
               93.011)
               Per day: $20
Campground     Per week: $100
fees - west    Per month: $300
               Overnight campground: First night free, then $15 per night
Costs of
cleaning up
properties by
city (includes $200 minimum - over one hour $200 per hour (§§
hauling        92.15 to
demolished     92.24)
structures out
and cleaning
up junk on
properties)
Fine for       $50 (§§
fireworks in   94.070 to
city limits    94.071)
Fine for
hindering      $150 (§§
firefighters   94.020 and
and driving    94.021)
over fire hose
Fine for       $75 plus $5 each day delinquent (§§
illegal        71.01 to
parking        71.15)
Fine for noise $150 (§
violation      70.068)
Fine for not   See §§
removing doors 32.01 to 32.18 (§§
and locks on   91.01 and
refrigerator   91.02)
or freezers
Fine for not   See §§
removing       32.01 to
noxious weeds  32.18 (§
               92.99)
Fines and Fees
Fine for not   Costs of removal, plus see §§
removing trees 32.01 to
with Dutch Elm 32.18 (§
Disease        96.99)
Fine for open
bottles or
cans           $25
containing
alcoholic
liquor
Fine for
parking on     $15 (§§
designated     71.01 to
streets        71.15)
overnight
Fine for       $100 (§§
snowmobile     73.01 to
violations     73.14)
Fine for       $25 per day, plus see §§
violating      32.01 to
firewood       32.18 (§
ordinance      70.078)
Fine for       To be determined (§
violating      34.16)
health orders
Fines for
administrative
code           First violation: $100; Second violation: $150; Third or subsequent violation:
enforcement    $200
(see
Chapter 32)
Penalty for    See §§
garbage        32.01 to
nuisance       32.18 (§
               50.06)
Golf Fees
All day        $50 cart and green fees
               All day $30 green fees only
Cart rental    9 holes $15; 18 holes $20
               Gas: $139.53 + $10.47 tax = $150;
Carthouse      Electric: $162.79 + $12.21 tax = $175;
rental         *Trail fee: $46.51 + $3.49 tax = $50
               * for all people with carts
Fee to rent    $75 per day
clubhouse
Green fees     All days 9 holes: $15; 18 holes: $20
               Family: $325.58 + $24.42 tax = $350;
               Couple $279.07 + $20.93 tax = $300;
Memberships    Individual: $209.30 + $15.70 tax = $225;
               Highschool/college: $93.02 + $6.98 tax = $100;
               Grade/middle school: $69.77 + $5.23 tax = $75; and
               Social: $27.91 + $2.09 = $30
Tournament fee $400 (effective April 2, 2012)
Trail fee      $5
daily
Miscellaneous
Cost to
replace
blacktop when  $10 per square foot (§
digging in     93.120)
water/sewer
service
Miscellaneous
               First offense: warning to the minor child (under the age of 16) and/or parent/
               guardian that curfew is being broken;
Curfew         Second offense: $50 fine issued to child’s parent/guardian; and
               Third offense: $100 fine issued to child’s parent/guardian. (§§
               131.01 to
               131.04)
Designate      Main, 1st Ave. East, 5th Ave. East, 4th St. East from 1st Ave. to 5th Ave. (§§
truck routes   72.25 to
               72.31)
Mowing and Snow Removal Costs
Costs of       $200 minimum - over one hour; $200 per hour (§
mowing lawns   92.04)
by city
Costs of
removing snow  $50 minimum - over one hour $50 per hour (§
from sidewalks 93.062)
by city
Pushing or
dumping snow   $100 hauling fee (§
on city        93.060)
streets or
alleys
Permits and Licenses
Bicycle        $2 (§
licenses       73.25)
Building       Values under $1,000 are $15, values $1,000 and over are $25 (§
permits        150.006)
Electrical     Initial fee $60 - renewal fee $15 (§
license        150.037)
Garbage        $250 per year - resolution to set rates - notify city (§§
license -      111.20 to
yearly         111.28)
Junkyard       To be determined
licenses
Permit for     To be determined (§§
slaughter      112.01 to
house and      112.05)
penalty
Permits for    One call takes care of
excavations
Plumbing       Initial fee $60 - renewal fee $15 (§§
license        150.065 to
               150.069)
Special
alcoholic      $50 (§
beverage       112.56)
license
Recreation Fees
General        $1 children one to five years old; $2 children six to 17 years old;
admission      $4 adults
Lap swim       $2 session
Lessons        $30 per child; $25 per child with season pass; $15 preschool
Pool fees      $80 family pass; $60 adult pass (18 and over); $40 youth
(Revised 2020)
Water walking  $2 session
Water and Sewer Connection Fees
Nonresident    $30 per month (§
user fee       52.10)
Sewer          $125 (§
connection fee 52.01)
(to the main)
Sump pumps in  $100 day (§
sanitary sewer 52.07)
Water          $125 (§
connection fee 51.05)
(to the main)
Water re-      $25 (§
connect fee    51.26)
 
(Res. 192, passed 2-3-2020; Res. 202, passed 2-1-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Garbage to be deposited in containers
   
50.03   Nonresident garbage
   
50.04   Garbage must be wrapped
   
50.05   Burning garbage and rubbish
   
50.06   Garbage that becomes a nuisance
   
50.07   Prohibited dumping/disposal
Disposal of Rubble, Commercial Solid Waste, and the like
   
50.20   Removal of garbage, commercial solid waste, and household waste
   
50.21   Removal of rubble, bulky items, and white goods
   
50.22   Bagging and tying of garbage
   
50.23   Definitions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Solid and semi-solid putrescible animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving, and consuming of
food or of material intended for use as food, and all offal, excluding useful
industrial by-products, from all public and private establishments and from all
residences.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-1)
   GARBAGE CONTAINER. A water-tight metallic or plastic can, of a size
permitted by the holder of the solid waste license with whom the owner or
operator of each business or residence has contracted, covered with a tight-
fitting metal or plastic lid, which container must be kept in a sanitary
condition at all times, with the outside thereof free and clean of grease or
decomposed matter, secured in such manner that it cannot be tipped or spilled
by dogs or marauders.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-2)
§ 50.02  GARBAGE TO BE DEPOSITED IN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The occupant of every private home or dwelling place, and the operator
of every place of business in the city, is hereby required to deposit and keep
the garbage that accumulates each day in a garbage container as above defined.
   (B)   Grass, leaves, or other material to be used as compost for fertilizer
may be kept in a pit or closed container, until such time as it may be used.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-3)
§ 50.03  NONRESIDENT GARBAGE.
   No person shall bring garbage, rubble, commercial solid waste, bulky items,
household waste, or white goods from outside the city limits to deposit in
containers of any type anywhere within the city unless previous arrangements
have been made with the garbage contractor.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-4)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04  GARBAGE MUST BE WRAPPED.
   All garbage shall be wrapped in paper, plastic, or other material so as to
prevent, as nearly as possible, moisture from the garbage from coming in
contact with the sides and bottom of the garbage container.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-5)
§ 50.05  BURNING GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   There shall be no burning of garbage, rubbish, rubble, or refuse within the
city limits. This section shall not apply to incinerators or fireplaces located
within a building or to actions of the Fire Department in firefighting or
ridding the city of a nuisance or hazard.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-6)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06  GARBAGE THAT BECOMES A NUISANCE.
   Every accumulation of garbage which is deposited, kept, burned, or
transported without contractor’s permission to any place in the city in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and any person who maintains or permits the maintenance of
such nuisance shall, upon conviction, be subject to the penalties established
in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-5-7)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07  PROHIBITED DUMPING/DISPOSAL.
    The city may maintain and operate a restricted use site at its discretion.
The dumping and/or disposal of any object on or within the city restricted use
site is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-1)  Penalty, see §
50.99
DISPOSAL OF RUBBLE, COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE,
AND THE LIKE
§ 50.20  REMOVAL OF GARBAGE, COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE, AND HOUSEHOLD WASTE.
   The owner or operator of each business and residence within the city shall
contract for the regular removal and disposal of all garbage, commercial solid
waste, and household waste with a person or entity who holds a valid solid
waste license issued by the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1)
§ 50.21  REMOVAL OF RUBBLE, BULKY ITEMS, AND WHITE GOODS.
   Individuals may remove their own rubble, bulky items, and white goods
without obtaining a license, providing the rubble, bulky items, and white goods
are disposed of in a legally permitted facility.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2)
§ 50.22  BAGGING AND TYING OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   All garbage, commercial solid waste, and household waste shall be
bagged, tied, and placed in a suitable container at the curbside or alley side
adjacent to the residence or business in accordance with the wishes of, and at
the times directed by, the dray businesses with whom the person or business has
contracted for the removal of garbage, commercial solid waste, and household
waste.
   (B)   Suitable containers are those receptacles equipped with a lid to
prevent the contents of the containers from being blown out and scattered.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3)
§ 50.23  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASH. Residue from the combustion of solid waste generated by stores,
offices, restaurants, warehouses, printing shops, service stations, and other
non-manufacturing, non-household sources.
   BULKY ITEMS. Large items such as white goods or furniture.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by stores, offices,
restaurants, warehouses, printing shops, service stations, and other non-
manufacturing, non-household sources.
   FACILITY. All facilities and appurtenances connected with a “solid waste
facility or solid waste disposal facility”, which are acquired, purchased,
constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved, extended, maintained, or
operated to facilitate the disposal or storage of solid waste.
   HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Solid waste derived from households, including single and
multiple residences, hotel and motels, bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew
quarters, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas, but not
waste from commercial activities that is generated, stored, or present in a
household.
   RUBBLE. Stone, brick, concrete, or similar inorganic material, excluding
ash, waste tires, and asbestos-containing materials.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility, and any other
discarded materials, including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations,
and from community activities, but does not include mining waste in connection
with a mine permitted under SDCL Title 45.
   WHITE GOODS. Discarded refrigerators, ranges, washers, water heaters, and
other similar domestic and commercial appliances.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty for violating §§
50.20 to
50.23 shall be a fine not exceeding $200 or by imprisonment not exceeding a
maximum of 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-5)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Duties of City Council
   
51.02   Appointment and compensation of employees
   
51.03   Map of water mains
   
51.04   Inventory and record
   
51.05   Fees for connection
   
51.06   Repair of service
   
51.07   Cut offs
   
51.08   Meter required; fees
   
51.09   Placing of meters and cutoff valves
   
51.10   Owner responsible for pipes and fixtures
   
51.11   Notice to discontinue required
   
51.12   More than one consumer from one service
   
51.13   Must not permit others to use water
   
51.14   Valve between meter and broiler
   
51.15   Building purpose
   
51.16   Testing meters
   
51.17   Meter reading
   
51.18   Meters failing to register
   
51.19   Inspections
   
51.20   Interfering with fire hydrants
   
51.21   Only licensed plumbers allowed
   
51.22   Breaking seals
   
51.23   Pipes inspected before covered
   
51.24   May shut-off water to make repairs
   
51.25   Leave water turned off
   
51.26   Water shut-off expense
   
51.27   Water rates
   
51.28   Collection of water fee
   
51.29   Delinquent rents
   
51.30   Owner and lessee liable
   
51.31   Fires
   
51.32   Drinking fountains
   
51.33   Use without meter unlawful
   
51.34   Water restrictions
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  DUTIES OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the immediate control, protection, and
management of everything appertaining to the waterworks of the city and have
all the powers and duties hereinafter enumerated.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1)
§ 51.02  APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   The City Council shall appoint all other regular employees of the
waterworks, and fix the salaries or compensation of every person connected
therewith.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2)
§ 51.03  MAP OF WATER MAINS.
   The City Council may provide and maintain a comprehensive map of all water
mains, branches, extensions, hydrants, and gates, showing their location and
size. Any changes of or additions to the water system require that the maps and
records thereof be corrected and enlarged as the occasion may require. The map
will be on file with the Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-3)
§ 51.04  INVENTORY AND RECORD.
   The Finance Officer shall, at the end of each year, make and file with the
City Council, a complete inventory in detail, of all tools, implements,
furniture, and other articles of personal property belonging to the Water
Department.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-4)
§ 51.05  FEES FOR CONNECTION.
   The City Council is hereby authorized by resolution to prescribe a schedule
of fees for making a tap upon the city water mains and connections to the curb
stop.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-5)
§ 51.06  REPAIR OF SERVICE.
   Whenever any iron service pipe breaks or leaks between the corporation cock
and meter, such iron service pipe must be replaced with copper or 160 pounds
per square inch pipe, and all service pipes between the corporation cock and
the meter hereafter installed, or changed shall be copper or 160 pound per
square inch pipe; and if copper pipe is used, the same shall be extra heavy
soft copper pipe known as “Type K” stamped thereon.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-6)
§ 51.07  CUT OFFS.
   All stop boxes and cut offs for controlling the supply of water to consumers
shall be placed approximately six feet from the property line nearest to the
main, where the tap is to be made with the top of the stop box even with the
grade of sidewalk or parking. However, this rule shall not apply where the
water supply is controlled by a valve in the street, which must be man holed.
All such cutoffs are under the control of the city. The user or owner of the
premises supplied with water shall be responsible for any damage to the curb
box.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-7)
§ 51.08  METER REQUIRED; FEES.
   All places supplied with water shall be metered by a meter furnished by the
city and of a type approved by the City Council. All meters shall be tested
before installation. The city will make all necessary repairs to meters.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-8)
§ 51.09  PLACING OF METERS AND CUTOFF VALVES.
   All meters shall be suitably placed on service pipe, with a compression stop
and waste on the inlet side next to the meter, so as to be easy access and
whenever possible not to exceed two feet from the wall or place where the
service pipe enters the building or structure. The meter shall be kept free
from all obstructions so that the same may be easily read and inspected, and
shall be protected from freezing or other damage. The cutoff valve shall have a
handle or wrench attaching thereto for the purpose of turning the same, and
must be kept accessible at all times and a dual backflow preventor should be
installed.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-9)
§ 51.10  OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR PIPES AND FIXTURES.
   The city shall be responsible for the maintenance and proper operation of
the water mains only. Persons taking water from a distributing pipe must keep
their service pipe and all fixtures connected therewith in good repair and
protected from frost at their own expense. The term FIXTURES means all
appurtenances from the point of tap, the function of which is to provide water
to a specific property, and shall include, but not be limited to, the saddle,
corporation valves, curb stop, and all service pipe. No claim shall be made
against the city by reason of the breaking of any of the service pipes or
apparatus, or for any other damage that may result from any shutting off or
turning on of water, or for any variation of pressure. Water shall not be
wasted or improperly used and no reduction will be made from the rates because
of leaking pipes or fixtures or for any other cause.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-10)  (Ord. 512, passed 6-3-2019)
§ 51.11  NOTICE TO DISCONTINUE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Owners or consumers desiring to discontinue the use of water shall
give notice thereof to the Finance Officer, and the minimum charge for water
rent as provided in §
51.30 shall in all cases apply until such notice is given and the water service
discontinued, regardless of whether said premises are occupied and used, or
not.
   (B)   Upon the receipt of such notice, it shall be the Duty of the Water/
Sewer Department to at once shut off the water at the curb cock, and the water
shall not be turned on again unless a fee is paid to cover the expense of
shutting off and turning on. Said fee shall be in an amount set by the City
Council and on file in the office of the Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-11)
§ 51.12  MORE THAN ONE CONSUMER FROM ONE SERVICE.
   Two or more premises cannot be supplied from the same service pipe unless
each premises has its own curb cock. Owners of buildings who lessee or
subdivide shall be responsible for all water used in said premises. If more
than one meter is placed upon one service pipe, the piping must be arranged
that each meter can be set on separate pipe lines, and shall be so placed that
no one of them shall measure water which has passed through another meter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-12)
§ 51.13  MUST NOT PERMIT OTHERS TO USE WATER.
   No consumer shall permit the owner or occupant of any other premises to use
water from his or her service, except by special permission from the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-13)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.14  VALVE BETWEEN METER AND BROILER.
   When a meter is placed on pipe connected to a broiler or other hot water
apparatus, an approved check and relief valve must be placed between such meter
and said broiler or other hot water apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-14)
§ 51.15  BUILDING PURPOSE.
   Contractors, builders, or others desiring water for building purposes must
make application to the Finance Officer thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-15)
§ 51.16  TESTING METERS.
   In case there is any doubt of the accuracy of any meter on the part of the
consumer, he or she may have the meter tested by the city. If the meter should
prove to be less than 5% accurate, the consumer will pay for the testing. If
the meter proves to be more than 5% accurate, the city will pay for the
testing.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-16)
§ 51.17  METER READING.
   (A)   The Water/Sewer Department will read the water meters monthly and
submit the readings to the Finance Office for calculating. The water fee will
be set by the City Council and on file in the office of the Finance Officer.
   (B)   There will be a due date on each bill when the monthly billing is due.
Disconnect notices will be sent out the day after the due date on the bill. If
the bill is still delinquent, the water will be disconnected.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-17)
§ 51.18  METERS FAILING TO REGISTER.
   In cases where water meters fail to register the amount of water passing
through them by being stopped up or from any cause whatever, the quantity used
shall be determined and the charge made based upon the average amount used
during two or more preceding periods of similar length.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-18)
§ 51.19  INSPECTIONS.
   The Water/Sewer Department, or such person he or she may direct, shall enter
and have free access at all reasonable hours to premises to ascertain the
location of all hydrants, pipes, or other fixtures attached to the waterworks;
and in case of wasted water on account of negligence or for want of repairs,
and if such waste is remedied, the water leading to such premises shall be
turned off. The Water/Sewer Department will also give notice of any defective
private pipe and demand the necessary repairs be made within 48 hours or the
water will be disconnected until the repairs are made. Periodic building
inspections shall be made upon issuance of an administrative search warrant for
the area, to determine whether the buildings are dangerous buildings within the
provisions of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-19)
§ 51.20  INTERFERING WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person except the Chief of the Fire Department shall open, take water
from, or in any way interfere with, injure, break, or deface any fire hydrant
belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-20)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21  ONLY LICENSED PLUMBERS ALLOWED.
   No person except a regularly licensed plumber or his or her employee shall
be permitted to do any work on any pipes or connections made with the mains of
or in any way connected with the water supply of the city, and no plumber shall
directly or indirectly allow any other person to do any work on said appliances
under his or her license. All such plumbers shall be governed by all the rules
and regulations of this title, and Chapter 150, regulating plumbing and
plumbers.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-21)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22  BREAKING SEALS.
   No person shall break any seal upon any meter, valve, private fire hydrant,
or other fixtures that may be sealed; provided that the seals on private fire
hydrants and private fire protection valves may be broken in case of fire, and
when so broken shall be reported to the Water/Sewer Department within 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-22)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23  PIPES INSPECTED BEFORE COVERED.
   No water pipes laid underground shall be covered and the trenches filled
until the water has been turned into such pipes and the said pipes have been
tested and found to be water-tight and below frost line, except when otherwise
specially permitted.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-23)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24  MAY SHUT-OFF WATER TO MAKE REPAIRS.
   In case of leaks or other accidents to pipes or other apparatus connected
with the city waterworks, plumbers may shut off water to make necessary
repairs, but in all cases where it is necessary to repair or remove water
meter, notice may be given to the Water/Sewer Department and no plumber or
other person shall remove any meter from a premises or change the location of
any meter in any premises without receiving a permit therefor from the Finance
Officer. In all cases, when plumbers make repairs to pipes or fixtures on any
premises, they shall leave the water turned on or turned off as they found it
to be when they entered upon the premises to make such repairs.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-24)
§ 51.25  LEAVE WATER TURNED OFF.
   In no case shall any plumber, after the completion and test of any plumbing
job, if it be the first installation of service pipe, leave the water turned on
but in all cases the stop cock at the curb shall be shut off.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-25)
§ 51.26  WATER SHUT-OFF EXPENSE.
   When the water has been shut off on account of nonpayment of its bills or
for violation of any of the rules and regulations of the city, it will not be
turned on again until all the arrears are paid together with an additional
payment of an amount set by the City Council and on file at the office of the
Finance Officer, to cover the expense of shutting off and turning on. If any
person from whose premises the water has been shut off for any of the reasons
herein provided shall turn the water on or cause the same to be turned on
without authority from the City Council, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-26)
§ 51.27  WATER RATES.
   (A)   Domestic and commercial water rates within the city shall be as
follows: The minimum water rate within the city limits shall be $14 per month,
up to 1,000 gallons per month.
   (B)   Water usage over the minimum of 1,000 gallons per month will be billed
at the following rates:
 
1,001 to 100,000 gallons       $9 per 1,000 gallons
100,001 to 200,000 gallons     $8.75 per 1,000 gallons
200,001 to 999,999,999 gallons $8.50 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (C)   There shall be an additional distribution and maintenance (DM) fee of
$6 per month for each water user including each residence, multiple family and
commercial occupancy within the city. This fee shall apply to all vacant
structures or lots where city water distribution is available.
   (D)   In addition to the other water charges, the city hereby establishes a
surcharge of $12.45 payable by each customer of its system who receives or
benefits from the services of the project financed by the DW-03 loan with the
borrower bond Series 2020. The collection of the surcharge shall start on March
1, 2021. The surcharge shall remain in effect until such time as the borrower
bond is paid in full, it shall be collected at the same time as other charges
of the system, and establish a surcharge account to segregate the income from
other system income for book keeping purposes to be pledged to the State
Conservancy District. The surcharge shall be reviewed from year to year and
modified in order to provide the required 110% debt coverage.
   (E)   Any city utility user living outside the city limits will pay an
additional user’s fee of $30 per month which will be billed with the monthly
charges for water and sewer. This will be charged on each water hook-up and 
will be treated the same as the DM charge and will apply to all vacant
structures or lots where city water distribution is available.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-27)  (Ord. 523, passed 10-12-2020)
§ 51.28  COLLECTION OF WATER FEE.
   Water fee shall be collected by the Finance Officer who shall keep a true
and accurate account of all receipts and collection.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-28)
§ 51.29  DELINQUENT RENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Finance Officer to notify persons whose rent is
delinquent and the owner of the property occupied by such persons that unless
such delinquent water rent be paid within ten days, the water service will be
discontinued, until the past due bill and late charge amount is paid in full. 
Special circumstances will be dealt with by the City Council. In case the
delinquent rent is not paid within that time, the Water Superintendent shall
discontinue water service to the property occupied by him or her, together with
the fee for turning on the same. The Water Superintendent is authorized to
disconnect and take the meter and apply the meter deposit, or any part thereof,
or any amount due to the city, under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-29)
§ 51.30  OWNER AND LESSEE LIABLE.
   The owner of private property, which property has upon its pipes connected
with the city waterworks to convey water upon such property shall, as well as
the lessee or occupant of the premises, be liable to the city for the rents or
rates of all water from said waterworks used upon said premises; which may be
recovered in an action against such owner, lessee, or occupant, or against any
or all of them.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-30)
§ 51.31  FIRES.
   In case of fire, the Chief of the Fire Department shall have full management
and control for the time being of all mains, gates, and fire hydrants, and it
shall be the duty of the Water/Sewer Department to carry out any lawful order
of the Fire Department in relation to the waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-31)
§ 51.32  DRINKING FOUNTAINS.
   Service pipes to all outdoor drinking fountains are to be provided with a
stopcock or a street valve, which will be under the exclusive control of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-32)
§ 51.33  USE WITHOUT METER UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any water from the city
waterworks except through a meter regularly installed under the provisions of
this chapter or turn the water on and off with at any curb cock or street valve
without the permission of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-33)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34  WATER RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Council shall have the right to limit or prohibit temporarily the
use of water from the city distribution system for any purpose excepting
domestic purposes within the dwellings of consumer or in business
establishments during emergencies in the event of plant breakdown, prolonged
drought, or shortage of water supply for any reason to the end that fire
protection efficiency may be maintained at its maximum. Notice of such
limitation or prohibition of the use of such water shall be given by publishing
a notice thereof once in the official newspaper of the city or by personal
notice. Any person violating the terms of such prohibition or restriction after
such notice shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalties in this
chapter. Water service to the premises involved may be discontinued entirely
during such emergency.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-34)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, in
addition to the ordinary penalties prescribed for violation of this chapter, be
subject to having water service turned off from the premises of such person,
and service shall not be restored until there has been full compliance of this
chapter and the payment of such fees for restoring service as may be provided
by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-35)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Permit for connection
   
52.02   Assessment for connection
   
52.03   Connection to be made by plumber
   
52.04   Specifications
   
52.05   Grease trap
   
52.06   Connection with cesspools prohibited
   
52.07   Use of storm and sanitary sewers
   
52.08   Use of sanitary sewers
   
52.09   Inspection
   
52.10   Property outside the city limits, charges for use of sewer
   
52.11   Sewer rates
   
52.12   Sewer rents for use
   
52.13   Additional utility fee for service to customers outside of city limits
Sewer Service Charges
   
52.25   Purpose
   
52.26   Determining the total annual cost of operation and maintenance
   
52.27   Determining each user’s wastewater contribution percentage
   
52.28   Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund
   
52.29   Review of each user’s wastewater service charge
   
52.30   Notification
   
52.31   Wastes prohibited from being discharged to the wastewater treatment
system
   
52.32   Prohibition of clear water connections
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  PERMIT FOR CONNECTION.
   No person, company, or corporation shall connect its property with any
opening or tap into any of the public sewers of the city without first having
obtained a permit to do so from the Finance Officer, and the payment of a sum
in an amount set by the City Council and on file at the office of the City
Finance Officer, plus all costs from main to lot line to the Finance Officer as
a fee for permission to connect to the said sewer and inspection of sewer. No
permit shall be granted to connect any property with any public sewer in this
city, or any connection therewith, until the applicant for the same shall agree
to comply with the terms and conditions of this title. The owner shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation or the constructing or repairing of a sewer.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1)
§ 52.02  ASSESSMENT FOR CONNECTION.
   Property having paid its just portion of the costs of construction of the
sewer to be connected with shall not be required to pay the above fee.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2)
§ 52.03  CONNECTION TO BE MADE BY PLUMBER.
   No person except a licensed plumber working under the supervision of the
Water/Sewer Department shall be permitted to make connections with any public
sewer.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04  SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sewers shall be constructed and connected in accordance with the
provisions of the National Plumbing Code heretofore adopted by Chapter 150.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4)
§ 52.05  GREASE TRAP.
   A proper grease trap or catch basin shall be provided by all hotels,
restaurants, butcher shops, and lard rendering establishments.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-5)
§ 52.06  CONNECTION WITH CESSPOOLS PROHIBITED.
   No connection from any cesspool or privy vault shall be made with any sewer
or drainage pipe.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07  USE OF STORM AND SANITARY SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to connect any sanitary
sewer with any storm sewer, or to permit any sewage to flow or run into any
storm sewer; and it shall be unlawful for any person to connect any storm sewer
with sanitary sewer or to permit or cause any storm or drainage water to run or
flow into any sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08  USE OF SANITARY SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to permit any blood,
buttermilk, whey, and sewer pipe consuming acids to flow or run into any
sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09  INSPECTION.
   The Water/Sewer Department, as duly authorized representative, shall inspect
all sewers, connections, and appurtenances thereto before any trenches and
grades are refilled. All sewers shall be left open and clean for inspection of
joints and sewer lines. The applicant for the building sewer permit shall
notify the Finance Officer when the sewer is ready for inspection. Upon
completion of said inspection, the applicant shall be immediately notified if
the sewer is approved or rejected.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-9)
§ 52.10  PROPERTY OUTSIDE THE CITY LIMITS, CHARGES FOR USE OF SEWER.
   Any property outside the corporate limits of the city may hereafter be
connected to the sanitary sewer system of the city. A monthly fee for each and
every connection to said sewer system must be paid. The amounts of said fees
shall be set by the City Council and on file at the office of the City Finance
Officer.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-10)
§ 52.11  SEWER RATES.
   (A)   All residential and commercial sewer users shall pay a monthly fee set
by the City Council and on file in the office of the Finance Officer. This
shall be submitted with water payment to the City Finance Officer no later than
the twentieth day of each month.
   (B)   All users of the wastewater treatment system for the city shall pay to
the city such amounts as shall be from time to time be set by ordinance of the
City Council.
   (C)   In addition to such charges as may be necessary to pay the expenses of
operation and maintenance of the city’s wastewater system, each user of the
wastewater system shall pay an initial surcharge in the amount of $9.20 per
month, subject to adjustment from time to time by ordinance of the City Council
as necessary to repay a $2,156,000 loan from the USDA Rural Development over a
period of 40 years at an interest rate of 3.25%, in accordance with the loan
agreement to be entered into by the city and the USDA Rural Development, the
proceeds of which loan are to be used for the wastewater treatment facility
expansion project. Such surcharge shall be segregated from all other funds of
the city, shall be and are hereby pledged to secure such loan, and shall be
used for no purposes other than for the repayment thereof. The collection of
the surcharge was established on August 1, 2010.
   (D)   In addition to the other wastewater charges, the city hereby
establishes a surcharge of $4.35 payable by each customer of its system who
receives or benefits from the services of the project financed by the CW-04
loan with the borrower bond Series 2020. The collection of the surcharge shall
start on March 1, 2021. The surcharge shall remain in effect until such time as
the borrower bond is paid in full, it shall be collected at the same time as
other charges of the system, and establish a surcharge account to segregate the
income from other system income for book keeping purposes to be pledged to the
State Conservancy District. The surcharge shall be reviewed from year to year
and modified in order to provide the required 110% debt coverage.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-11)  (Ord. 514, passed 9-3-2019; Ord. 523, passed 10-12-
2020)
§ 52.12  SEWER RENTS FOR USE.
   A monthly rate for use of sewer shall be paid by the owner of the premises
to the Finance Officer, who shall keep a true and accurate account of all
receipts and collections.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-12)
§ 52.13  ADDITIONAL UTILITY FEE FOR SERVICE TO CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE OF CITY
LIMITS.
   Any city utility user living outside the city limits of the city will pay an
additional users fee of $30 per month which will be billed with the monthly
charges for water and sewer. This will be charged on each water hook-up and
will be treated the same as the distribution and maintenance (DM) charge and
will apply to all vacant structures where city water distribution is available.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-1-2002)
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 52.25  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to generate sufficient revenue to
pay all costs for the operation and maintenance of the complete wastewater
system. The costs shall be distributed to all users of the system in proportion
to each user’s contribution to the total loading of the treatment works.
Factors such as strength (BOD and TSS), volume, and delivery flow rate
characteristics shall be considered and included as the basis for the user’s
contribution to ensure a proportional distribution of operation and maintenance
costs to each user (or user class).
(Ord. 414, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.26  DETERMINING THE TOTAL ANNUAL COST OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The city, or its City Engineer, shall determine the total annual costs of
operation and maintenance of the wastewater system which are necessary to
maintain the capacity and performance. During the service life of the treatment
works, for which such works were designed and constructed. The total annual
cost of operation and maintenance shall include, but need not be limited to,
labor, repairs, equipment replacement, maintenance, necessary modifications,
power, sampling, laboratory tests, and a reasonable contingency fund.
(Ord. 414, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.27  DETERMINING EACH USER’S WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERCENTAGE.
   (A)   The city shall determine for each user or user class the average daily
volume of wastewater discharged to the wastewater system, which shall then be
divided by the average daily volume of all wastewater discharged to the
wastewater system to determine such user’s volume contribution percentage. The
amount used as the total average daily volume of wastewater shall exclude
infiltration and inflow. The city shall determine for each user or user class
the average daily poundage of five-day 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
discharged to the wastewater system which shall then be divided by the average
daily poundage of all five-day DOD discharged to the wastewater system to
determine such user’s BOD contribution percentage.
   (B)   The city shall determine for each user or user class the average daily
total suspended solids (TSS) poundage discharged to the wastewater system which
shall then be divided by the average daily poundage of all TSS discharged to
the wastewater system, to determine such user’s TSS contribution percentage.
The volume contribution percentage, DOD contribution percentage, and TSS
contribution percentage for each user or user class shall be multiplied by the
annual operation and maintenance costs for wastewater treatment of the total
volume flow, total five-day 20°C BOD, and total TSS respectively.
(Ord. 414, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.28  WASTEWATER FACILITIES REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   A reserve fund called the Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund is
hereby established within the Wastewater Utility Fund for the purpose of
providing sufficient funds to be expended for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories, and appurtenances during the useful life (20 years) of
the wastewater treatment facilities necessary to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such facilities are designed and constructed.
   (B)   The reserve fund called the Wastewater Facilities Replacement Fund
established within the Wastewater Utility Fund as an interest-bearing account
shall be funded by a deposit of a minimum of 10% of revenues per year obtained
from the Wastewater Utility Fund at the end of each fiscal year.
(Ord. 414, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.29  REVIEW OF EACH USER’S WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The city shall review the total annual cost of operation and
maintenance as well as each user’s wastewater contribution percentage not less
often than every two years and will revise the system as necessary to assure
equity of the service charge system established herein and to assure that
sufficient funds are obtained to adequately operate and maintain the wastewater
treatment works. The city shall apply excess revenues collected from a class of
users to the costs of operation and maintenance attributed to that class for
the next year and adjust the rate accordingly.
   (B)   If a significant user, such as an industry, has completed in-plant
modifications which would change regularly scheduled meeting of the governing
body, such factual information and the city shall then determine if the user’s
wastewater contribution percentage is to be changed. The city shall notify the
user of its finding as soon as possible.
(Ord. 414, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.30  NOTIFICATION.
   Each user will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a regular
bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are attributable
to wastewater treatment services.
(Ord. 414, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 52.31  WASTES PROHIBITED FROM BEING DISCHARGED TO THE WASTEWATER TREATMENT
SYSTEM.
   (A)   The discharge of any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal systems, or to injure
or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in or have an
adverse effect on the waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works
is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Each user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the city
treatment works shall pay for such increased costs.
(Ord. 414, passed 10-7-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.32  PROHIBITION OF CLEAR WATER CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof down spouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, sump pumps, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Fines of up to $100 may be
imposed.
(Ord. 414, passed 10-7-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
 
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   DRIVING REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SIGNS AND TRUCK ROUTES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: DRIVING REGULATIONS
Section
Operation of Vehicles
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Driving on right side of street
   
70.003   Overtaking and passing
   
70.004   Slow driving
   
70.005   Following too closely
   
70.006   Vehicles shall not be driven on sidewalks
   
70.007   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicle
   
70.008   Following any authorized emergency vehicle prohibited
   
70.009   Brakes, bell, horn, and lights
   
70.010   License plates
   
70.011   Driver’s permit required
   
70.012   Motor vehicles left unattended, brakes to be set
   
70.013   Unlawful to drive through processions unless directed by police
officer
   
70.014   Backing around corners or into intersection prohibited
   
70.015   Driver’s view of control
   
70.016   Crossing fire hose
   
70.017   Careless driving
   
70.018   Driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol
   
70.019   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
70.020   Riding on outside of vehicle
   
70.021   Boarding or alighting from vehicle in motion
   
70.022   Keep to the right in crossing intersections
   
70.023   Meeting of vehicles
   
70.024   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
70.025   Driving on divided highways
   
70.026   Right-of-way
   
70.027   Exceptions to right-of-way
   
70.028   Stopping prohibited in specified places
   
70.029   Standing for loading or unloading only in certain places
   
70.030   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
70.031   Stop before entering through street
   
70.032   Turning at intersections
   
70.033   Turning around at intersections prohibited
   
70.034   Turning around in mid-block prohibited
   
70.035   Turning movements and required signals
   
70.036   Signals by hand and arm or signal device
   
70.037   Method of giving hand and arm signals
   
70.038   Restrictions on U turns
   
70.039   Exhibition driving
   
70.040   Prohibit use of dynamic braking devices
Additional Regulations
   
70.055   Accident; duty to stop
   
70.056   Duty to give immediate notice of accident
   
70.057   Duty upon striking animal
   
70.058   Duty upon striking unattended vehicle
   
70.059   Repair of vehicle with reportable damage prohibited unless required
notice affixed
   
70.060   Interfering with traffic
   
70.061   Weight and size of vehicle and loads
   
70.062   Brakes and signaling devices
   
70.063   Lights
   
70.064   Headlights dimmed
   
70.065   Spot lights
   
70.066   Play streets
   
70.067   Muffler, excessive smoke, and noise
   
70.068   Prohibiting the use of “smitty” or “hollywood” mufflers
   
70.069   Vehicles with lugs prohibited
   
70.070   Pneumatic tires with metal studs permitted
   
70.071   Vehicles prohibited on closed streets
   
70.072   Manner of arrest
   
70.073   Notice to appear
   
70.074   Appearance and deposit for fine
   
70.075   Failure to appear
   
70.076   Evidence of traffic violations
   
70.077   Storage of firewood, corn, or the like used for heating purposes
Pedestrians
   
70.090   Pedestrian’s right-of-way
   
70.091   Pedestrian’s rights and duties at controlled intersections
   
70.092   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalk
   
70.093   Pedestrians soliciting rides
Enforcement of Regulations
   
70.105   Enforcement duties
   
70.106   Police to direct traffic
   
70.107   Obedience to police
   
70.108   Authority of Police Department to adopt regulations
   
70.109   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
 
   
70.999   Penalty
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 70.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments
or public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation of curb and property lines at intersections, whether marked or
not, or any other portion of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian
crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street.
   CURB. The extreme edge, or lateral boundary of a roadway, whether marked by
curbing or not.
   DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the City of Webster.
   DOUBLE-PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street at the rear of
another vehicle which is parked diagonally at the curb, or the standing of a
vehicle upon the street alongside and parallel to another vehicle which is
parked parallel at the curb.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   LEFT HAND SIDE OF A STREET. The side to the left of the vehicle as it moves
forward.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether attended or unattended upon a
roadway, otherwise then temporarily for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public vehicular travel.
   RIGHT-HAND SIDE OF A STREET. The side to the right of the vehicle as it
moves forward.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street devoted to vehicular traffic.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in
conjunction with a motor vehicle that some part of its own weight and that of
its own load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines.
   STREET. Any street, avenue, boulevard, alley, highway, or public place set
apart for the public vehicular travel.
   STREET INTERSECTION. The portion of a street where it joins another at an
angle, whether or not it crosses the other street, and shall include the full
width of the street between the curb lines, extended, of the intersection
streets.
   THROUGH STREETS. Streets, or parts thereof, that have been so designated and
marked, by order of the City Council.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying property
or passengers wholly on its own structure and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street; provided, that for the purpose of this
title, a bicycle or an animal that is being ridden, driven, or led shall be
deemed a VEHICLE.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1)
§ 70.002  DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF STREET.
   (A)   Upon all streets, except upon one-way streets, the operator of a
vehicle shall drive the same upon the right half of the street and shall drive
a slow moving vehicle as closely as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of
a street unless it is impractical to travel on such side of the street, and
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle subject to the limitations
applicable in overtaking and passing set forth in this title.
   (B)   The foregoing provision of this section shall not be deemed to prevent
the marking of lanes for traffic upon any street and the allocation of
designated lanes to traffic moving in a particular direction or at designated
speeds.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-1)
§ 70.003  OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   The driver of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction shall first give audible warning of his or her intention to pass and
shall then pass at a safe distance to the left thereof, but only when such left
side is clearly visible and free from oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be made in safety and
shall not cut in front of overtaken vehicle until safely clear of same, and in
no case shall a vehicle pass another vehicle in a street intersection. The
driver of a vehicle shall move to the right of the roadway a sufficient
distance to allow passing when so signaled from a vehicle behind desiring to
pass, and shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely
passed by overtaking vehicle. Vehicles shall not travel two or more abreast on
any street.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-2)
§ 70.004  SLOW DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle at any unnecessarily slow rate of speed so
as to hinder and retard the traffic.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-3)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.005  FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard to the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and condition of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-4)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.006  VEHICLES SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle shall not drive on or within any sidewalk
area, except as a permanent or temporary driveway.
   (B)   A vehicle shall not be allowed to cross a sidewalk except where a
driveway has been provided. In crossing a sidewalk to or from an alley, lot, or
building, no vehicle shall be driven at a speed greater than four mph.
   (C)   Every person driving any vehicle to or from any alley, lot, private
driveway, or building across any sidewalk shall give ample notice and warning
of his or her approach; and in the business district, shall come to a full stop
before crossing the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-5)
§ 70.007  OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles giving
audible signal by bell, siren, exhaust whistle, or flashing lights, the
operator of every other vehicle shall immediately drive the same to a position
as near as possible and parallel to the right-hand edge or curb of the street,
clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles has passed, unless otherwise directed
by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-6)
§ 70.008  FOLLOWING ANY AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business to follow any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or to drive or park such vehicle
within 350 feet of the place where any fire apparatus has stopped or may be
located in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-7)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.009  BRAKES, BELL, HORN, AND LIGHTS.
   Every motor vehicle operated or driven upon the streets and alleys of this
city shall be provided with adequate brakes in good working order sufficient to
control such motor vehicle at all times when the same is in use, and a suitable
and adequate bell, horn, or other device for signaling and shall, during the
period of one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, display
lighted lamps as required in SDCL Chapter 32-17, and any amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-8)
§ 70.010  LICENSE PLATES.
   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle within the city without
having conspicuously displayed thereon license plate or plates as required by
the statutes of the state, securely fastened, and shall be kept free from mud,
dirt, or other obstruction so that said license plate or plates shall be
clearly legible by other persons upon said roadway.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-9)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.011  DRIVER’S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is a resident of the state to drive
or operate upon any of the streets or roadways within the city any motor
vehicle without first having secured and having in his or her possession a
permit to do so issued by the state under the provisions of SDCL Chapter 32-12,
and any acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-10)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.012  MOTOR VEHICLES LEFT UNATTENDED, BRAKES TO BE SET.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such vehicle
to stand on any street unattended without first setting the brakes thereon when
standing upon any grade, turning the front wheel to the curb or side of the
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-11)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.013  UNLAWFUL TO DRIVE THROUGH PROCESSIONS UNLESS DIRECTED BY POLICE
OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive between the
vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are in
motion. This provision shall not apply to intersections where traffic is
controlled by police officers.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-12)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.014  BACKING AROUND CORNERS OR INTO INTERSECTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back such vehicle
around a corner at an intersection or into an intersection of public streets.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-13)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.015  DRIVER’S VIEW OF CONTROL.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when there are more than three persons
in the front seat thereof, or when such motor vehicle is so loaded as to
obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of said vehicle, or so as
to interfere with the driver’s control over the mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-14)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.016  CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire without the consent of the Fire Chief or Fire Department official
in command.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-15)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.017  CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a street, alley, or public place
carelessly and heedlessly in disregard of the rights and safety of others, or
without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, shall be guilty of
careless driving.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-16)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.018  DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF DRUGS OR ALCOHOL.
   SDCL Chapter 32-23 shall govern any provisions pertaining to driving or
being in control of a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or any
controlled substance or drug.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-17)
§ 70.019  CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person traveling upon any bicycle, coaster, sled, skies, roller skates,
or any other toy vehicle shall cling to or attach himself or herself or his or
her vehicle to any other moving vehicle upon any street.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-18)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.020  RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   No person shall ride upon the running board or fenders of any motor vehicle
in motion and no person driving a motor vehicle shall allow any person to ride
upon the running board, fenders, or outside of any such vehicle he or she is
driving while same is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-19)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.021  BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE IN MOTION.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while same is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-20)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.022  KEEP TO THE RIGHT IN CROSSING INTERSECTIONS.
   In crossing an intersection of highways, except upon a one-way street, the
driver of a vehicle shall at all times cause such vehicle to travel on the
right half of the highway unless such right half is obstructed or impassable.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-21)
§ 70.023  MEETING OF VEHICLES.
   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each
other to the right. Each giving to the other at least one-half of the main
traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-22)
§ 70.024  DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent
herewith shall apply.
   (B)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designate those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-23)
§ 70.025  DRIVING ON DIVIDED HIGHWAYS.
   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving an
intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or with any such dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a crossover
or intersection established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-24)
§ 70.026  RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Subject to the exceptions stated in §
70.027, the right-of-way rule as between vehicles at intersections is hereby
declared as follows.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has fully entered the intersection.
   (B)   When two vehicles approach an intersection at approximately the same
time, the operator of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to
the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The operator of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall
forfeit any right-of-way which he or she may otherwise have hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-25)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.027  EXCEPTIONS TO RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle entering a public street shall yield the
right-of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon
official business and the operators thereof sound audible signal by bell,
siren, or exhaust whistle.
   (B)   This provision shall not relieve the operator of an emergency vehicle
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the
street, nor shall it protect the operator of any such vehicle from the
consequences of an arbitrary exercise of such right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-26)
§ 70.028  STOPPING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand, or park
such vehicle on any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or a traffic-control sign or signal:
   (A)   Within an intersection;
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Within 15 feet of inside boundary line of the sidewalk, or if no
sidewalk is in place, within 25 feet of the intersecting roadway, except that
this provision shall not apply to alleys;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, or
directly across the street from such entrance;
   (E)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (F)   In front of a private driveway;
   (G)   On a sidewalk;
   (H)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation of obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic; and
   (I)   Parking against direction of traffic on through streets.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-27)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.029  STANDING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand, or
park said vehicle for a period of time longer than necessary for the actual
loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger of
loading zone.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand, or
park said vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the actual
loading or unloading of passengers, or for the unloading and delivery or pick
up and loading of materials in any place marked as loading zone.
   (C)   The City Council shall have authority to determine the location of
passenger zones and loading zones as described herein, and shall cause to be
erected and maintained appropriate signs indicating the same.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-28)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.030  EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or garage shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-29)
§ 70.031  STOP BEFORE ENTERING THROUGH STREET.
   Every operator of a vehicle or other conveyance traversing any street
intersecting any through street, as designated and marked by order of City
Council, shall bring such vehicle or conveyance to a full stop at the place
within 15 feet where such street meets the prolongation of the nearest property
line of such through street, subject, however, to the direction of any traffic-
control signs or signals or any law enforcement officer at such intersection.
The vehicle entering a through roadway (where there is a stop sign) must yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles which are either within the intersection, or
so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-30)
§ 70.032  TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Right turns. The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the right
at an intersection or into an alley or driveway shall approach the point of
turning in the line of traffic nearest the right-hand edge or curb of the
street, and in turning shall keep as closely as practicable to the right-hand
edge or curb of the street.
   (B)   Turning left. The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left
at an intersection or into a driveway shall approach the point of turning in
the lane of traffic to the right of and next to the center of the roadway; and
unless otherwise directed by “turning marker” the operator of a vehicle in
turning left at an intersection shall pass to the right of the center of the
intersection before turning.
   (C)   Turning markers. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to place
turning markers within or at the entrance to the intersections directing that
traffic turning left shall follow a line to travel other than directed in
division (B) above. Whenever turning markers have been placed as herein
provided, traffic turning left shall follow the line as directed by such
marker.
   (D)   Turning left on “go” signals. The driver of a vehicle intending to
turn to the left at an intersection where traffic is controlled by traffic-
control signals or by a police officer, shall proceed to make such left turn
with proper care to avoid accident and only upon the “green” or “go” signal,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (E)   Turning right on “stop” signals. The driver of any vehicle which is
stopped as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk and to the far
right side of the roadway, then at the entrance to the intersection in
obedience to a “red” or “stop” signal, may make right turn but shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian and other traffic proceeding as directed by the
signal at the intersection. This provision permitting a right turn after a stop
when facing a steady red light alone or “stop” signal shall not be effective if
the City Council prohibits such turn and if a sign is erected at such
intersection giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-31)
§ 70.033  TURNING AROUND AT INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   At any intersection where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals
or by a law enforcement officer, or where warned by an official traffic-control
sign displaying the words “No U Turn” or “No Left Turn”, it shall be unlawful
for the operator of a vehicle to turn such vehicle at the intersection in a
complete circle, or so as to proceed in the opposite direction or to make a
left turn.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-32)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.034  TURNING AROUND IN MID-BLOCK PROHIBITED.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not turn such a vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction except at an intersection.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-33)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.035  TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §
70.033, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or otherwise turn
a vehicle from a direct course or move it right or left upon a roadway unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so
turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner
thereinafter provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by such
movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal. The signal provided herein shall be used to indicate an intention
to turn, change lanes, or stop and shall not be flashed on one side only on a
parked or disabled vehicle or flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal to
operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-34)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.036  SIGNALS BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by a signal lamp or lamps or standard approved
mechanical signal device; but when a vehicle is so constructed or loaded that a
hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the front and rear of such
vehicle, then said signals must be given by such a lamp or lamps or signal
device.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-35)
§ 70.037  METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-36)
§ 70.038  RESTRICTIONS ON U TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction within
any intersect in or designated no-passing zone in the city, nor may any such
turning movement be otherwise made elsewhere in the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-37)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.039  EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a vehicle within the city limits and in such manner
that creates or causes unnecessary engine noise, tire squeal, skid, or slide
upon acceleration or stopping or that stimulates a temporary race; or that
causes the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway shall be guilty of
exhibition driving.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-38)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.040  PROHIBIT USE OF DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICES.
   Operating any motor vehicle with a dynamic braking device engaged except for
the aversion of imminent danger is prohibited. DYNAMIC BRAKING device means a
device used primarily on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an
internal combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of braking
without the use of wheel brakes. The Police Department shall have enforcement
responsibility.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-39)  Penalty, see §
70.999
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.055  ACCIDENT; DUTY TO STOP.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in any accident resulting in injury or
death to any person or damage to property shall immediately stop and give his
or her name and address, and the name and address of the owner, and the license
number of the vehicle he or she is driving to the person struck or the driver
or occupants of any vehicle collided with and shall render to any person
injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the carrying of such
person to a physician or surgeon for medical treatment if it is apparent that
such treatment is necessary or is requested by the injured person.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-1)
§ 70.056  DUTY TO GIVE IMMEDIATE NOTICE OF ACCIDENT.
   The driver of any motor vehicle involved in an accident resulting in bodily
injuries or death to any person or property damage as required by state law
shall immediately by the quickest means of communication give notice of such
accident to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-2)
§ 70.057  DUTY UPON STRIKING ANIMAL.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any dog or domestic animal
causing injury thereto shall stop and attempt to notify the owner; if the owner
cannot be notified at once, the driver shall report the accident to the Police
Department in order that the injured animal may be properly cared for.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-3)
§ 70.058  DUTY UPON STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in an accident
with any vehicle or other property which is unattended resulting in any damage
to such other vehicle or property shall immediately stop and shall then and
there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle or other
property of his or her name, address and the name and address of the owner, and
the license number of the vehicle he or she is driving or shall attach securely
in a conspicuous place in or on such vehicle or other property a written notice
giving his or her name, address and the name and address of the owner, and the
license number of the vehicle he or she is driving and shall without
unnecessary delay notify the Police Department. Every such stop shall be made
without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-4)
§ 70.059  REPAIR OF VEHICLE WITH REPORTABLE DAMAGE PROHIBITED UNLESS REQUIRED
NOTICE AFFIXED.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop shall not commence repair
on any motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been involved in a
reportable accident or struck by any bullet unless the vehicle bears the notice
provided by the state’s Public Safety Department.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-5)
§ 70.060  INTERFERING WITH TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street so as to
interfere with or interrupt the traffic on said street.
   (B)   Disabled vehicles are excepted from this but only for such reasonable
period of time as may be required to remove the disabled vehicle from its
position of interference.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-7)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.061  WEIGHT AND SIZE OF VEHICLE AND LOADS.
   No person shall drive or operate any vehicle upon any street, the gross
weight of which, including the load, or the size of which does not comply with
the requirements of the state law governing such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-8)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.062  BRAKES AND SIGNALING DEVICES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semi-trailer, pole trailer, and any
combination of such vehicles shall be equipped with brakes in compliance with
the requirement of SDCL Chapter 32-18 or revision thereof.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a horn in good working
order capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance
of at least 200 feet.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-9)
§ 70.063  LIGHTS.
   A motor vehicle upon a highway within the state during the period from a
half hour after sunset to a half hour before sunrise and at any other time when
there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible any person on the
highway at a distance of 200 feet shall be equipped with at least two lighted
lamps on the front and two on the rear of such motor vehicle, such lamps to
conform to state law, SDCL Chapter 32-17, provided that a motorcycle or motor
bicycle shall be required to display but one lighted lamp in front and one in
the rear.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-10)
§ 70.064  HEADLIGHTS DIMMED.
   No person shall use headlights or side lights upon any vehicle on any street
unless the same are dimmed in such a way as to prevent the light being dazzling
or blinding to persons using the street.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-11)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.065  SPOT LIGHTS.
   No person shall use a spotlight in the streets unless in an emergency, and
then so as not to blind or inconvenience persons using the street.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-12)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.066  PLAY STREETS.
   The Council may declare any street or part thereof as “Play Street”, and
place appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating such use.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-13)
§ 70.067  MUFFLER, EXCESSIVE SMOKE, AND NOISE.
   No person shall operate or drive any motor vehicle unless such motor vehicle
is equipped with a muffler in good working order and in consistent operation to
prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke. No person shall operate
a motor vehicle in such manner as to emit unnecessary or excessive smoke or
noise from the motor of such vehicle or to needlessly sound the horn or other
noise-making device.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-14)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.068  PROHIBITING THE USE OF “SMITTY” OR “HOLLYWOOD” MUFFLERS.
   The use of “Smitty” or “Hollywood” mufflers or other devices of a like
character which make loud noises or explosions are hereby declared unlawful. It
shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cutout” on any motor vehicle on any street
or roadway in the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-15)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.069  VEHICLES WITH LUGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate or move any tractor or vehicle equipped with mud
lugs, ice spurs, or spikes upon or across any street that is surfaced with
portland cement concrete or surfaced with bituminous material or any other hard
surfacing material without first laying planks at least two inches in thickness
over the surface of such street in a manner so as to protect such street
surface from any damage.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-16)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.070  PNEUMATIC TIRES WITH METAL STUDS PERMITTED.
   It shall be lawful to operate, upon the streets of the city, motor vehicles
equipped with pneumatic tires in which there are embedded metal studs or wires
of tungsten or other similar metal.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-17)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.071  VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON CLOSED STREETS.
   No vehicle shall be driven upon any street that has been closed to traffic
by the proper authority.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-18)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.072  MANNER OF ARREST.
   Except in cases of driving while intoxicated or under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or any stupefying or exhilarating drug, and except in the
more serious and aggravated cases of speeding or careless and reckless driving,
and except when reasonably necessary to secure appearance, a person charged
with violation of a traffic ordinance of the city by a police officer need not
be arrested in the regular manner but may first be given an opportunity, after
notice, to appear voluntarily to answer for such traffic violation.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-19)
§ 70.073  NOTICE TO APPEAR.
   A person charged with violation of a traffic ordinance shall be given a
notice to appear before the Circuit Court Magistrate or the County Clerk of
Courts at the time stated in such notice, which shall be written within seven
days from the time of the offense; and that in event of failure to do so, a
warrant will be issued for his or her arrest. The notice shall state the name
and address of the offender, if known; the license number and make of the
vehicle involved in the violation; the nature, date, and location of the
offense; and the time and place where the offender is to appear to answer to
the charges. The notice shall be made in duplicate and the portion of the
original stating the offense and the place and time to appear shall be given to
the owner or driver charged with the offense or left in or upon the vehicle
involved in the violation.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-20)
§ 70.074  APPEARANCE AND DEPOSIT FOR FINE.
   A person who has received a notice of traffic violation as provided in §
70.073 shall appear at the time and place specified in such notice. In cases of
parking violations and other minor traffic violations for which the person
charged has been ordered to appear before the Circuit Court Magistrate or
County Clerk of Courts, he or she may make a deposit for the fine as authorized
by the Court and sign a statement authorizing a Circuit Court Magistrate or
County Clerk of Courts to enter his or her plea of guilty to the offense, then
he or she shall not be required to appear in Court. Any person who has been
guilty of three or more violations of the provisions of the traffic ordinances
of this city shall not be permitted to deposit the fine as hereinabove
authorized, but must post a bond for his or her appearance in Court at the time
specified by the Department, said bond to be in an amount set by the City
Council and on file at the office of the Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-21)
§ 70.075  FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   Upon failure of a person to appear in response to a notice of traffic
violation as herein provided, he or she shall be subject to arrest in the
manner otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-22)
§ 70.076  EVIDENCE OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   In any proceeding for violations of the provisions of this title relating to
the operation or parking of motor vehicles, the registration plate displayed on
such motor vehicle shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that
the owner of such vehicle was the person who was operating or parking such
motor vehicle at the time when such violation occurred or who parked such motor
vehicle at the point where such violation occurred.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-23)
§ 70.077  STORAGE OF FIREWOOD, CORN, OR THE LIKE USED FOR HEATING PURPOSES.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any individual, firm, or entity to
store firewood, corn, or other like substance used for heating purposes on the
premises except in conformance with the following.
   (A)   No more than eight cords of firewood shall be stored at any time,
without the prior approval of the City Council. For purposes of this section, a
CORD OF WOOD means a unit of quantity for cut wood, equal to 128 cubic feet in
a stack measuring four feet by four feet by eight feet.
   (B)   All wood must be cut into lengths of approximately one to two feet and
require no further cutting of the wood prior to placing it in a wood burner or
fireplace. The wood must be neatly stacked. Such wood shall not be stacked
closer than five feet to any property line and not higher than six feet from
grade.
   (C)   However, firewood may be stacked on or near the lot line or against a
fence, provided that it is no higher than the fence and that it is located a
minimum of six feet from any structure on adjacent property.
   (D)   All brush, debris, and refuse from processing of firewood shall be
promptly removed from the premises.
   (E)   Any corn stored for a corn-burning stove shall be stored in a
container so as to prevent rodents or other animals from getting to the
material and in such a manner so as not to create a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-24)  Penalty, see §
70.999
PEDESTRIANS
§ 70.090  PEDESTRIAN’S RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any
unmarked crosswalk at the end of a block, except at intersections where the
movement of traffic is being regulated by police officers or traffic-control
signals.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, it shall be unlawful
for the operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear to overtake and
pass such stopped vehicle.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to cross a roadway at any point
other than within a marked or unmarked crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-1)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.091  PEDESTRIAN’S RIGHTS AND DUTIES AT CONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS.
   At intersections where traffic is controlled by a police officer, a
pedestrian shall yield the right-of- way to vehicles lawfully proceeding
directly ahead on a “Go” signal, and the driver of a vehicle while making a
right or left shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians proceeding across the
street on the “Go” signal. It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to cross or
attempt to cross a street when the traffic is stopped.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-2)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.092  PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-3)
§ 70.093  PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the purpose of
soliciting a ride from the operator of any private vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-4)  Penalty, see §
70.999
ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS
§ 70.105  ENFORCEMENT DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Police Department office to
enforce all the regulations and requirements of this title.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing or parked
upon any street, as defined in this chapter, in the city, in violation of any
of the provisions of this title, he or she is hereby authorized to move such
vehicle to a position and location permitted under the sections of this title
relating to the parked vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2)
§ 70.106  POLICE TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   Police officers shall direct all traffic in conformance with traffic laws
and ordinances, provided that in the event of a fire or other emergency, or to
expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, members of the Police or Fire
Department may direct traffic as conditions may require.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3)
§ 70.107  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.108  AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT TO ADOPT REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police, with the approval of the Council, is hereby empowered
to make and enforce regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of
this title and to make temporary regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions, provided any such regulations are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this title.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5)
§ 70.109  PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this title shall apply to the operator of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the U.S. government, this state,
county, or city; and it shall be unlawful for any such operator to violate an
of the provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title.
   (B)   The provisions of this title regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles as
defined in this title while the operator of such vehicle is operating the same
in an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties. This exemption
shall not, however, protect the driver of any such vehicle from the consequence
of a reckless disregard of the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.999  PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, any person violating any of
the provisions of §§
70.001 to
70.040 shall be punishable by a fine as set in §§
70.001 to
70.040.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-40)
   (C)   A violation of §
70.077 shall result in a fine of $25 per day until said violation is abated.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-24)
   (D)   Except in cases where a different or additional penalty is imposed by
this title or by some existing provision of law, every violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $200 or
by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL 9-19-3
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Limited parking
   
71.02   Emergency limited parking
   
71.03   Non-parking areas
   
71.04   Spaces reserved for police cars, disabled parking, and the like
   
71.05   Parallel and diagonal parking
   
71.06   Prohibited vehicles
   
71.07   Backing to curb
   
71.08   Double parking
   
71.09   Parking in alleys
   
71.10   Parking on crosswalks
   
71.11   Stopping near curb
   
71.12   Parking near fire hydrant or fire station
   
71.13   Parking in private driveway
   
71.14   Parking in traffic to converse
   
71.15   Vehicle may be removed
   
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   The City Council may from time to time by resolution establish or
cause to be designated and marked streets or parts thereof where vehicles may
be parked for limited time periods only. The driver or person in charge of any
vehicle parked in such a limited time zone shall comply with such time limit
for parking as shown on the signs, or marked on the curb, in the immediate
vicinity in which such vehicle is parked.
   (B)   Whenever a notice is left by any member of the Police Department in or
on any vehicle which has exceeded the parking time limit, requesting the person
in charge of such vehicle to report to the police station or municipal court,
said person shall appear at the hour and place designated, and default in so
doing shall in itself be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-1)
§ 71.02  EMERGENCY LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   No motor vehicle or other vehicle of any kind shall be parked or
remain upon any street or avenue in this city during any time when members of
the Street Department of said city are working or preparing to work in any
manner in connection with the cleaning, repairing, surfacing, or removal of
snow from such street or avenue, or any part thereof. No motor vehicle or other
vehicle of any kind shall be parked or remain upon any street or avenue in this
city during a snow emergency (when members of the Street Department of said
city are working in any manner in connection with removal of snow or ice from
such street, avenue, or alley). Snow emergencies (by city Street Department)
will be made available to the public using public notification systems,
including the county alert system.
   (B)   (1)   No motor vehicle or other vehicle shall be parked or remain upon
any street or avenue, right-of-way, or boulevard in any one location within the
limits of this city for a period of time exceeding 24 consecutive hours.
      (2)   No trailers (boats, construction, fish houses, and the like) or
construction equipment (lifts, dump trucks, bobcats, and the like) of any kind
shall be parked or remain upon any street or avenue in this city during the
winter months (December - April) overnight.
   (C)   No semi-trailer, tractor, straight truck, or bus shall be parked on
any street, boulevard, alley, or public place in a residential district for a
period in excess of one hour. Such restrictions shall not apply to trucks
loading or unloading cargo, which may be parked on streets or alleys long
enough to complete their loading or unloading operations, nor to any machinery
or equipment in use on any repair, maintenance, or construction project in
progress on any street, alley, boulevard, or public place.
   (D)   Any automobile, or vehicle of any kind, trailers, boats, construction
equipment, fish houses, and the like parked in violation of this section may be
removed by the city, and the owner thereof, in addition to the other penalties
prescribed, shall be required to pay the cost of such removal.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-2)  (Ord. 517, passed 11-4-2019)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  NON-PARKING AREAS.
   The City Council may from time to time, by resolution, establish and cause
to be designated and marked non-parking areas, along street curbs. No vehicle
shall be parked at any time or for any period except to load or unload
passengers or merchandise in such places so designated and marked.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-3)
§ 71.04  SPACES RESERVED FOR POLICE CARS, DISABLED PARKING, AND THE LIKE.
   The City Council may from time to time, by resolution, establish and cause
to be designated and marked, by suitable signs or otherwise, space for the
exclusive use, day and night, of police cars, busses, and such other vehicles
as they may deem entitled to such privilege. After a space has been so
designated and marked, it shall be unlawful for any other vehicle to park
within such space day or night except momentarily to take on or let off
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-4)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05  PARALLEL AND DIAGONAL PARKING.
   Vehicles shall park in either a parallel or diagonal manner, according to
the signs and paint demarcations in the parking area. Parallel parking shall be
done so that the vehicle is parallel to the curb headed in the direction of
traffic, for that side of the street and not closer than four feet to any other
vehicle, front or rear, and the front and rear wheels on the right side of such
vehicle not be more than 18 inches from the curb. Diagonal parking shall be
done so that the vehicle shall be parked at an angle with curb approximately 45
degrees with the right front wheel touching or within 12 inches of the curb.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-5)
§ 71.06  PROHIBITED VEHICLES.
   No vehicles of more than 18 feet in length or seven feet in width, or with a
load exceeding such length or width shall be parked upon any street which has
been designated for diagonal parking.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-6)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07  BACKING TO CURB.
   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb or be left standing backed to the
curb except where it is necessary in order to load and unload goods or
merchandise and then only for such length of time as may be necessary to load
or unload.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-7)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08  DOUBLE PARKING.
   No vehicle shall be double parked on any street unless said vehicle is in
charge of some person able to drive same, and it shall be the duty of such
person to at once move the same upon the request of any law enforcement officer
or driver of any vehicle which is blocked by such double parked vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-8)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09  PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley except for the purpose of loading,
unloading, and delivery of merchandise; and in such cases, the vehicle shall be
parked so as not to block the alley for traffic and shall not be so parked for
a longer time than 30 minutes at one location.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-9)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10  PARKING ON CROSSWALKS.
   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any crosswalk, except
momentarily for the purpose of taking on or letting off passengers.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-10)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11  STOPPING NEAR CURB.
   No vehicle shall stop or be allowed to stand anywhere in the streets except
as near as possible to the right-hand curb.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-11)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12  PARKING NEAR FIRE HYDRANT OR FIRE STATION.
   No person shall stop or park any vehicle within 15 feet of a fire hydrant or
within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to a fire station.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-12)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13  PARKING IN PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   No persons shall stop or park a vehicle so as to block any private driveway.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-13)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14  PARKING IN TRAFFIC TO CONVERSE.
   No person or persons shall park or stop any vehicle in any lane of traffic
for the purpose of talking with any pedestrians or with a person or persons of
another vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-14)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15  VEHICLE MAY BE REMOVED.
   Any motor vehicle or other vehicle which is in any such street or avenue
contrary to the above provisions hereof may be removed from such street or
avenue by any member of the Street Department of said city, or any person
requested by such member of said Street Department to remove said motor vehicle
or other vehicle. The cost of removal shall be taxed against the owner of such
motor vehicle or other vehicle as long as reasonable care is used in the moving
of such motor vehicle or other vehicle. Neither said city or any other person
shall have any liability for any damage which may be done to any motor vehicle
or other vehicle so moved.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-15)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. Each day such violation is committed or is
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished
as such. A fine will be imposed as filed in the Finance Office.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-16)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SIGNS AND TRUCK ROUTES
Section
Traffic Signs and Signals
   
72.01   Traffic signs and signals
   
72.02   Obedience to traffic signs and signals
   
72.03   Interference with signs or signals prohibited
   
72.04   Display of unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
72.05   Council authorized to designate crosswalk
   
72.06   Definitions
   
72.07   Eligible destinations
   
72.08   Destination criteria
   
72.09   Sign construction
   
72.10   Sign location
   
72.11   Sign appearance
   
72.12   Duplication of federal and state destination signage prohibited
   
72.13   Additional requirements
Truck Routes
   
72.25   Truck routes
   
72.26   Definitions
   
72.27   Through truck route established
   
72.28   Exceptions
   
72.29   Load limits
   
72.30   Truck route signs
   
72.31   Enforcement of truck routes
TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS
§ 72.01  TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   The City Council shall by resolution determine and designate the
character or type of all official traffic signs and signals, provided that all
traffic signs and signals erected and in operation are hereby designated
official traffic signs and signals.
   (B)   Subject to this selection, the Chief of Police is hereby authorized,
and as to those signs and signals required hereunder, it shall be his or her
duty to place and maintain or cause to be placed and maintained all official
traffic signs and signals.
   (C)   All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall be approved by the City Council, and as far as practicable, standard
throughout the city.
   (D)   No provisions in this title for which signs are required shall be
enforceable against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation, the sign herein required is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-1)
§ 72.02  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any operator to disobey the instructions of
any official traffic sign or signal upon the street placed in accordance with
the provisions of this title, unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement
officer.
   (B)   Failure to obey any official traffic sign will result in a citation in
the amount of the current state fine for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03  INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to deface, injure, move,
obstruct, or interfere with an official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04  DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain or to display
upon or in view of any street any unofficial sign, signal, or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic sign or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or device is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, and the Chief of Police is hereby empowered to remove the
same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05  COUNCIL AUTHORIZED TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALK.
   The City Council may by resolution establish safety zones of such kind and
character and at such places as it may deem necessary for the protection of
pedestrians and may mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places
as it may deem advisable consistent with the provisions of this title; and that
space being so designated, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to mark
such zones and lanes in accordance with such resolution.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-5)
§ 72.06  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MUTCD. The Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and
Highways, published by the Federal Highway Administration.
   WAYFINDING PLAN. This shall include the wayfinding and/or directional
signage plans approved by the City Council, and any amendments, subsequent
versions, and/or additional plans approved by the City Council.
   WAYFINDING SIGN. An off-premise guide sign that is part of a city-
coordinated and continuous system of signs meant to direct vehicular and
pedestrian traffic to key cultural, civic, visitor, and recreational
attractions.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-6.1)  (Ord. 499, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 72.07  ELIGIBLE DESTINATIONS.
   Destinations that meet one or more of the following criteria shall be
eligible for participation in the city’s wayfinding plan:
   (A)   Public places owned or operated by the federal, state, or local
governments or their agencies;
   (B)   Public or privately owned historic, cultural, scientific, educational,
or religious sites;
   (C)   Areas of natural scenic beauty or naturally suited for outdoor
recreation or interest; and
   (D)   Public or private destinations that serve to promote tourism.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-6.2)  (Ord. 499, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 72.08  DESTINATION CRITERIA.
   (A)   City wayfinding signs shall not be used as a directional program for
city-based, privately-owned businesses, organizations, and locations.
Destinations must meet the criteria of §
72.07.
   (B)   Eligible destinations and must contribute to the draw of transient
visitors to the area.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-6.3)  (Ord. 499, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 72.09  SIGN CONSTRUCTION.
   Construction and maintenance of city wayfinding signs shall be at the sole
discretion and authority of the city and all city wayfinding signs shall comply
with the wayfinding plan.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-6.4)  (Ord. 499, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 72.10  SIGN LOCATION.
   City wayfinding signs shall be placed within the approved right-of-way or in
other city-approved areas.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-6.5)  (Ord. 499, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 72.11  SIGN APPEARANCE.
   City wayfinding signs shall comply with the provisions of the MUTCD with
respect to shape, appearance, and standard requirements applicable to such
signs.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-6.6)  (Ord. 499, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 72.12  DUPLICATION OF FEDERAL AND STATE DESTINATION SIGNAGE PROHIBITED.
   City wayfinding signs shall not be installed in a manner that interferes
with or duplicates route or destination sign programs of the federal or state
governments.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-6.7)  (Ord. 499, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 72.13  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All city wayfinding signs must comply with the requirements and restrictions
enumerated in the agreement entered between the city and the state’s Department
of Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-6.8)  (Ord. 499, passed 10-3-2016)
TRUCK ROUTES
§ 72.25  TRUCK ROUTES.
   All trucks entering, leaving, or operating within city limits shall be
driven only over and along the truck routes herein established and upon such
other designated streets and areas over which truck travel is permitted.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-1)
§ 72.26  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVIATING TRUCK. A truck operating on city streets not designated as a TRUCK
ROUTE while operating within the city limits.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, company, corporation, firm,
partnership, or organization.
   TRUCK. Any motor vehicle designated or operated for the transportation of
property which has a body weight or body and load weight which exceeds three
tons per axle.
   TRUCK ROUTE. The streets herein designated as the way over and along which
trucks entering and leaving the city must operate.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-2)
§ 72.27  THROUGH TRUCK ROUTE ESTABLISHED.
   It is hereby established within the city the following “through truck
routes”:
   (A)   All trucks entering or leaving the city from the north or south shall
proceed along SD Highway 25 or Main Street, which streets are bounded on the
north by US Highway 12 and on the south by First Avenue; and
   (B)   All trucks entering or leaving the city from the east or west shall
proceed along US Highway 12.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-3)
§ 72.28  EXCEPTIONS.
   Trucks may deviate from the above streets and highway for the following
reasons:
   (A)   When it is necessary for conducting business at a destination in the
city by first utilizing an established truck route to the point it becomes
necessary to deviate from that route doing so at the intersection with the
street or avenue nearest to the destination point and going directly to the
destination point. Upon leaving the destination point, the deviating truck
shall return to the nearest truck route by the shortest route;
   (B)   The operating of emergency vehicles upon any street in the city;
   (C)   The operation of trucks owned and operated by the city, a public
utility, any contractor, or material supplier, while engaged in the repair,
maintenance, and construction of improvements within the city; and
   (D)   The operation of trucks upon officially designated detour.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-4)
§ 72.29  LOAD LIMITS.
   If load limits have to be imposed with weather changes, these load limits
would coincide with state load limits when they are necessary.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-5)
§ 72.30  TRUCK ROUTE SIGNS.
   The city Police Department shall cause all truck routes to be clearly marked
to give notice that this chapter is in effect.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-6)
§ 72.31  ENFORCEMENT OF TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The Police Department shall keep and maintain accurate maps setting
out truck routes and streets upon which traffic is permitted. The maps shall be
kept on file in the office of the Finance Officer and made available to the
public.
   (B)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of the
vehicle and load is unlawful shall require and person driving or in control of
said vehicle to proceed to any public or private scale available for the
purpose of weighing and determining whether this chapter has been complied with
provided that such vehicle is driven to the nearest scale but in no event more
than five miles. It shall be unlawful for any person driving or in control of
any such vehicle to fail to comply with this requirement.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
73.01   Definition; compliance required
   
73.02   Permitted operations
   
73.03   Age restrictions on drivers
   
73.04   Mufflers
   
73.05   Brakes
   
73.06   Flagging
   
73.07   Safety equipment and inspection
   
73.08   Lights
   
73.09   Hours of permitted operation
   
73.10   Rules of the road
   
73.11   Permitting unauthorized person to drive a snowmobile is unlawful
   
73.12   Access, exit routes, and restrictions for off-road vehicles
   
73.13   Entering prohibited
   
73.14   Entering and leaving the city
Bicycles
   
73.25   License required
   
73.26   Procedure
   
73.27   Conditions of license
   
73.28   Defacing license number; taking bicycle without permission
 
   
73.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.01  DEFINITION; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SNOWMOBILE. Any engine-driven vehicle of a type which utilizes sled type
runners, wheels, or skis with an endless belt tread or similar means of contact
with the surface upon which it is operated.
   (B)   Compliance required. No snowmobile shall be operated within the
incorporated limits of the city except upon compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-1)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02  PERMITTED OPERATIONS.
   Snowmobiles shall operate over designated roadways when the same shall be
snow covered or snow packed only, and such vehicles shall not be permitted to
operate on the sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-2)
§ 73.03  AGE RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVERS.
   The age restriction shall by set as state law prescribes.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-3)
§ 73.04  MUFFLERS.
   Every snowmobile shall be at all times equipped with a muffler in good
working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise
or annoying smoke.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4)
§ 73.05  BRAKES.
   Every snowmobile shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the
movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5)
§ 73.06  FLAGGING.
   All snowmobiles shall exhibit a red flag or cloth not less than 12 inches
square and hung or suspended five feet above ground level so that the entire
area thereof is visible from all directions while on any road, street, or
alley.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-6)
§ 73.07  SAFETY EQUIPMENT AND INSPECTION.
   No snowmobile shall be driven on the roadway, street, or alley when said
snowmobile is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person or property.
The city police may at any time upon reasonable cause to believe the snowmobile
is unsafe or not equipped as required by this subchapter, require the driver of
such vehicle to stop and submit such vehicle to an inspection and test with
reference thereto as may be appropriate. No person shall operate any vehicle
which has been found unsafe except to return such snowmobile to his or her
residence, place of business, or to a garage until said vehicle has been placed
in proper repair.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-7)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08  LIGHTS.
   A snowmobile in motion during the period of one-half hour after sunset to
one-half hour before sunrise shall display at least one lighted lamp on the
front and back of said snowmobile; which headlight and taillight shall be in
conformity with the standards set by state law.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-8)
§ 73.09  HOURS OF PERMITTED OPERATION.
   No snowmobile shall be operated within the city between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except that a driver may drive during this restricted time
when he or she is coming into city to his or her residence or drive during this
restricted time when he or she is leaving the city to go to his or her
residence or when driving from work to his or her residence.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-9)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10  RULES OF THE ROAD.
   Every operator of a snowmobile shall observe all of the rules of the road
pertaining to vehicles and in addition shall yield the right-of-way to motor
vehicles. All ordinances of the city pertaining to the operation of vehicles
shall be applicable to the operation of snowmobiles and are adopted by
reference and made a part hereof, the same as if set forth fully herein.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-10)
§ 73.11  PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE A SNOWMOBILE IS UNLAWFUL.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a snowmobile owned by him or
her or under his or her control to be driven on any public highway by any
person who is not authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-11)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.12  ACCESS, EXIT ROUTES, AND RESTRICTIONS FOR OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Owners of off-road vehicles including snowmobiles and all terrain
vehicles (three-wheelers) are to use the shortest routes when entering or
leaving the city.
   (B)   (1)   The vehicles will be operated as close as possible to the outer
edge of right-of-way.
      (2)   No other streets are to be traveled except to access, by the most
direct route possible, one of the above-specified routes.
   (C)   All ATVs shall be operated only during the hours from one-half hour
before sunrise until one-half hour after sunset.
   (D)   Operators of all such vehicles shall be in possession of a valid
driver’s license and shall meet all other requirements of state traffic laws.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-12)
§ 73.13  ENTERING PROHIBITED.
   Any person riding a snowmobile in the city limits shall be prohibited from
entering upon the following property:
   (A)   Private property;
   (B)   Golf course;
   (C)   Vacant lots; and
   (D)   Industrial parks.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-13)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.14  ENTERING AND LEAVING THE CITY.
   All snowmobiles shall be allowed to enter and leave the city provided they
use the designated route which is the nearest route from the snowmobile owner’s
house to exit the city limits and back.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-14)
BICYCLES
§ 73.25  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway in the city or upon any part thereof without first having secured and
attached to such bicycle a proper license tag as provided hereinafter.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.26  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applications for a license to own and operate a bicycle shall be made
to the City Treasurer. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee on file
in the Finance Office to be paid into the City Treasury upon the granting of a
license. After entry upon license register, applications shall be transmitted
by the Treasurer to the Police Department for the purpose of keeping a record
in said Police Department.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such application and upon receipt of the license fee
as hereinbefore provided, it shall be the duty of the City Treasurer to issue
to such applicant, a proper license and a tag shall be attached to the frame of
the bicycle in a substantial manner and such bicycle shall not be operated at
any time without having such tag attached hereto. The removal of any such tag,
except by proper authority, shall be a violation of this section. In case of
loss of any license tag, a new tag shall be issued by the City Treasurer upon
proper application and upon payment of an additional fee.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-2)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.27  CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued hereunder shall be deemed to be granted subject to the
following conditions.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public
highway of the city with another person on the handlebars or in front of the
operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and other persons upon the sidewalks, streets, and other public
highways of the city.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycles shall be operated with the city between 30 minutes after
sunset and 30 minutes before sunrise, without a headlight visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from the front thereof for not less than 300 feet
indicating the approach or presence of the bicycle, firmly attached to such
bicycle and properly lighted, or without a yellow or red light or reflector
attached to and visible from 200 feet from the rear thereof. The said headlight
shall give a clear white light.
   (E)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway in the city abreast of or to the left of more than one other
person riding or propelling a bicycle, or upon any public sidewalks, nor shall
any person ride or operate a bicycle by holding on or attaching said bicycle in
any manner to any other vehicle on any public highway or street.
   (F)   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway in the city shall observe all traffic rules and regulations
applicable thereto, and shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns,
ride at the right-hand side of the street or highway, pass to the left when
passing overtaken vehicles and individuals that are slower moving, and shall
pass vehicles to the right when meeting.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-3)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.28  DEFACING LICENSE NUMBER; TAKING BICYCLE WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall deface, mutilate, or remove a license tag placed upon any
bicycle, nor shall any person take any bicycle for the purpose of riding or
propelling the same upon the street or other public highway without the consent
of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-4)  Penalty, see §
73.99
 
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §§
73.01 to 73.14 shall be subject to a fine on file in the Finance Office.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-15)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed regulations
SCHEDULE I:  SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions as to speed. Any person driving a vehicle on a street or
highway shall drive the same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than is
reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface, and width of
the street or highway and to any other conditions existing, and no person shall
drive any vehicle upon a highway or street at such a speed as to endanger the
life, limb, or property of any person.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-1)
   (B)   Speed limitations. It shall be unlawful for any driver to drive any
vehicle upon a highway or streets of the city or in any municipal park at a
greater rate of speed than the following:
      (1)   Fifteen mph when approaching within 50 feet of a railroad grade
crossing when the driver’s view is obstructed. A driver’s view shall be deemed
to be obstructed when at any time during the last 200 feet of his or her
approach to such crossing he or she does not have a clear and uninterrupted
view of such crossing and of any traffic on such railway for a distance of 400
feet in such direction from such crossing;
      (2)   Fifteen mph when passing a school during a school recess or while
children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing hours;
      (3)   Fifteen mph when approaching within 50 feet and in traversing an
intersection of streets when the driver’s view is obstructed. A driver’s view
shall be deemed to be obstructed when at any time during the last 50 feet of
his or her approach to such intersection he or she does not have a clear and
uninterrupted view of such intersection for a distance of 200 feet from such
intersection;
      (4)   Twenty-five mph on “Thru Streets”;
      (5)   Fifteen mph in the city parks, and in the city cemetery; and
      (6)   All other roads and highways as posted.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-2)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
95.   CEMETERY
      
96.   CITY PARKS AND SERVICES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
90.01   License
   
90.02   Application
   
90.03   Fee, tag
   
90.04   Exceptions
   
90.05   Dogs muzzled
   
90.06   Dogs at large; barking
   
90.07   Destruction of dogs running at large
   
90.08   Scienter not an element of the offense
   
90.09   Quarantine
   
90.10   Removal of excrement
   
90.11   Pet waste
   
90.12   Ignorance of the law is no excuse
   
90.13   Vicious animals prohibited
Wild or Dangerous Animals
   
90.25   Wild or dangerous animals prohibited
   
90.26   Definition
   
90.27   Specific animals prohibited as dangerous
   
90.28   Owner to report escape or dangerous animals and animals not indigenous
to the state
Farm Animals
   
90.40   Animals running at large
   
90.41   Fowl in the city
   
90.42   Keeping farm animals
   
90.43   Pigs prohibited
Rat Eradication
   
90.55   Definitions
   
90.56   Rat-proofing buildings
   
90.57   Notice to owner
   
90.58   Notice, charge against owner
   
90.59   Maintaining rat-proof condition
   
90.60   Inspections
   
90.61   Installation of floors
   
90.62   Removal of rat-proofing
   
90.63   Metal or plastic containers
   
90.64   Dumping of garbage and rubbish unlawful
   
90.65   Storage of lumber and other material
 
   
90.99   Penalty
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.01  LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city to keep,
maintain, or have in his or her custody or under his or her control any dog or
animals of the dog kind and/or cat, without first having obtained a license to
do so from the City Finance Officer as hereinafter provided without having paid
a license fee therefor. No person in the city or any area controlled by the
city may keep, maintain, or have in his or her custody or under his or her
control, any more than three licensed dogs over the age of three months.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  APPLICATION.
   Any person or persons desiring to keep, maintain, or have in his or her
custody or control, by himself, herself, or agent within the said city, any dog
or cat shall, on or before December 31 in each year, make application to the
City Finance Officer for a license to keep such dog or cat; such application
shall be verbal or in writing stating the name, sex, color, and other
distinguishing characteristics of said dog or cat and the name of the owner
thereof, and that said dog or cat has no vicious propensities so far as known
to said applicant, which application shall be made on a printed blank furnished
by the City Finance Officer and shall be filed with said City Finance Officer.
The applicant shall exhibit to the Finance Officer a certificate from a
registered veterinarian that such dog or cat has been inoculated against rabies
and such inoculation will be effective for the period for which the dog or cat
is licensed.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 90.03  FEE, TAG.
   The applicants shall at the time of making such application, pay to the City
Finance Officer a license fee for each male dog or cat or spayed female dog or
cat; and the license fee for each unsprayed female dog or cat, and said license
fees shall be set by the City Council and on file at the office of the Finance
Officer, and it shall be the duty of the City Finance Officer at the time of
the issuance of the license herein provided for, to furnish and deliver to said
applicant a metallic tag for each dog or cat for which such registered number
of the dog or cat and the year when registered, and it shall then be the duty
of the owner of the dog or cat to place a collar around the neck of such dog or
cat so owned or kept by him or her, on which collar shall be securely fastened
a metallic tag so furnished by the City Finance Officer, provided that in case
of the loss of any tag so issued, the said City Finance Officer is authorized
to issue a duplicate.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   The licensing provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to dogs when
owned by nonresidents temporarily within the city, and not to “seeing-eye dogs”
properly trained when such dogs are actually kept for use by blind persons for
the purpose of going from place to place.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 90.05  DOGS MUZZLED.
   The Mayor may, by proclamation, at any time, upon 48 hours’ notice publish
in the official newspaper of the city, an order that all dogs in the city be
muzzled in such a manner as to make it impossible for said dogs to bite any
person or other animal.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5)
§ 90.06  DOGS AT LARGE; BARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to permit or suffer to
run at large within the limits of the city any dog or animal of the dog kind,
whether licensed or unlicensed, and any police officer or person of proper
authority is hereby authorized and empowered to impound any such dog or animal
found running at large in violation of the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Any dog shall be deemed RUNNING AT LARGE within the meaning of this
section when such animal is not confined upon the premises of its owner or on a
leash in the hands of some attendant, or unless such animal, if loose, is
accompanied by its owner or attendant.
   (C)   No person owning any dog, licensed or unlicensed, confined on the
premises or otherwise, shall suffer or permit such dog to disturb the peace and
quite of the neighborhood by continuous barking or making other loud or unusual
noises.
   (D)   Upon signed complaint to the Police Department that any person is
keeping or harboring any dog which disturbs the peace as herein set forth, it
shall be the duty of said Police Department to notify the owner of said dog in
writing of said complaint, and after such owner has been given the 48 hours’
notice of such habit, any police officer or person of proper authority is
hereby authorized and empowered to go upon the premises and impound any such
dog or animal so disturbing the peace. In addition to the impounding of such
animal or other penalties prescribed, the owner thereof shall be subject to a
fine and the penalties on file in the Finance Office.
   (E)   If the officer does not hear the alleged disturbance, but the
complaining citizen is willing to sign a statement attesting to the disturbance
with times and descriptions of such disturbance, the officer may use the
statement to judge if the disturbance is severe enough to impound the creature.
If the owner or caretaker is not at home, the officer will leave a notice
informing him or her of the impoundment. The owner or caretaker will be
responsible for all costs.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07  DESTRUCTION OF DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to employ, whenever he or she
deems it necessary, a sufficient number of persons to capture and convey to the
dog pound, and care for, kill, and dispose of in the manner herein provided,
all dogs found running at large contrary to the provisions of this chapter. It
shall be lawful for any person to restrain and take up any creature found
running at large contrary to the provisions of this subchapter and to deliver
the same to the Chief of Police or to any police officer or animal control
officer, who shall receive such animal and proceed in the like manner, as if
the same had been taken by him or her or under his or her authority.
(SDCL 9-29-12)
   (B)   All dogs captured and conveyed to the dog pound, as established by the
city, shall be kept with humane treatment and supplied with sufficient food and
water for a period of at least 48 hours, unless sooner reclaimed by the owner
or keeper thereof as herein provided. When the owner or claimant of a dog so
impounded shall desire to redeem such dog from the pound, such dog may be
released upon the payment to the person in charge of such dog pound, of an
amount set by the City Council and on file at the office of the Finance Officer
and costs of keeping, and shall exhibit a license for such dog issued in the
manner herein provided, and the person in charge of such dog pound shall
thereupon release such dog to such owner or claimant; provided further, for the
second time the dog is impounded, the payment shall be increased in an amount
set by the City Council and on file at the office of the Finance Officer, and
the costs of keeping and shall procure a license as hereinabove provided; still
further, for the third and still further subsequent impoundment’s, the payment
shall be further increased in an amount set by the City Council and on file at
the office of the City Finance Officer, and the costs of keeping and shall
procure a license as hereinabove provided.
   (C)   At the expiration of 48 hours from the date of the impounding such
dog, if the same shall fail or refuse to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter for the releasing of the same, it shall be the duty of the person in
charge of such dog pound to destroy such dog and to cause it to be removed and
properly buried; provided, that the owner of licensed dogs shall have 24 hours’
notice in writing, after the expiration date of said 48 hours, before the
animal shall be killed or destroyed.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the persons in charge of said dog pound before
destroying the dog under the provisions of this subchapter to sell said dog at
a private sale to any person who is willing to pay a sum sufficient to
reimburse the city for all expenses of keeping said dog and the fee set by the
City Council and on file in the office of the Finance Officer; provided, also,
that if a dog is of a vicious disposition or has dangerous habits, the police
shall notify in writing the owner of or possessor of such dog to confine such
dog, and if thereafter such owner or possessor fails to comply with such
notices, the police are authorized, empowered, and directed to kill or cause to
be killed such dog, whether found running at large or upon the premises of the
owner of such dog, forthwith, and without impounding the said dog.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 90.08  SCIENTER NOT AN ELEMENT OF THE OFFENSE.
   In any proceeding for violation of the provisions of this subchapter
relating to dogs, the use of words herein, PERMIT OR SUFFER SUCH DOG TO DISTURB
THE PEACE shall not be constructed as making scienter an element of the
offense, and the knowledge or lack of knowledge of the person or persons
committing the act or violating this chapter shall be considered immaterial.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8)
§ 90.09  QUARANTINE.
   The owner of any animal which has contracted rabies, or subjected to the
same, or which is suspected of having rabies, shall, upon the demand of the
Police Department or the Health Department, produce said animal to the
Department to be held in quarantine for observation for a period of ten days.
If examination of any animal shall prove it to be infected with rabies, it
shall be disposed of as directed by an officer of such Department or licensed
veterinarian of any animal so quarantined shall pay all costs and expenses
incurred by the quarantine period for maintenance and examination of such
animal including veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9)
§ 90.10  REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who possesses or is in charge of any
dog, cat, or animal not to immediately remove excrement deposited by a dog or
animal upon a common thoroughfare, street, sidewalk, play area, park or upon
city property, or upon any private property when permission of the owner or
tenant of said property has not been obtained, and such is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and prohibited. Any person accompanied by any creature in
public or private property, other than his or her own, must carry with him or
her visible means of cleaning up any fecal matter left by the animal.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11  PET WASTE.
   No person will allow creature fecal matter to accumulate on his or her
property. Any amount of fecal matter that is in excess of ten separate bowel
movements will be considered a violation of this section. In addition, any
fecal matter that is producing a foul odor or attracting insects will be a
violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-11)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12  IGNORANCE OF THE LAW IS NO EXCUSE.
   In any proceeding for violation of this chapter relating to dogs, cats, or
other animals, the use of the words “permit” or “suffer” shall not be construed
as making ignorance a defense, and the knowledge or lack of knowledge of the
person or persons committing the act of violating this chapter is immaterial.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-12)
§ 90.13  VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General regulation. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
maintain, or have in his or her possession or under his or her control within
the city any vicious animal.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      VICIOUS ANIMALS. Includes:
         (a)   Any animal which, according to records of the appropriate
authority, has inflicted serious injury on a human being on public or private
property;
         (b)   Any animal, according to records of appropriate authority, has
killed or seriously injured a domestic animal while off of the owner’s
property;
         (c)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the
purpose of fighting, or any animal trained for fighting;
         (d)   Any animal which chases or approaches a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public or private property in a menacing fashion or apparent
attitude of attack; and
         (e)   Any animal of a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack, to cause injury, or to otherwise threaten the safety of human beings or
animals.
   (C)   Specific canine breeds prohibited as vicious. No local government may
enact, maintain, or enforce any ordinance, policy, resolution, or other
enactment that is specific as to the breed or perceived breed of a dog. This
section does not impair the right of any local government unit to enact,
maintain, or enforce any form of regulation that applies to all dogs.
   (D)   Exemptions for animals that are provoked. It is recommended no animal
be declared vicious if the threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a person
who at the time was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the
premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal, or was teasing,
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal, or has, in the past, been
observed or reported to have teased, tormented, abused, or assaulted the animal
or was committing or attempting to conduct a crime.
   (E)   Notice to owner. If any dog is of a vicious disposition or has
dangerous habits, or is suspected of being diseased, the police shall notify
the owner or possessor of such dog orally or by written private or public
notice to confine or muzzle such dog and if thereafter such owner or possessor
fails to comply with such notice, the police are authorized, empowered, and
directed to kill or cause to be killed such dog, whether found running at large
or upon the premises of the owner of such dog, forthwith, and without
impounding such dog.
   (F)   Procedure after an attack takes place. Any animal involved in an
unprovoked attack which results in serious injury to any human, shall be
impounded and if unable to be captured, any law enforcement officer is
authorized to destroy the animal to prevent further endangerment to human life.
Any animal impounded for an unprovoked attack which results in injury to any
human shall be euthanized or, at the discretion of the city, the animal may be
placed at a home outside of the city. Unless permitted by the City Council, no
vicious animal shall be returned to reside in the city. Because of the dangers
involved in housing a vicious animal, the owner must show cause in court within
five days of impoundment of vicious animal why the animal should not be
destroyed.
   (G)   Poisoning prohibited. It shall be unlawful to willfully administer
poison to any dog or other animal, the property of another, or to expose any
poisonous substance with intent that the same shall be taken by such animal.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-13)  Penalty, see §
90.99
WILD OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 90.25  WILD OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or have in his or her
possession or under his or her control within the city, any poisonous reptile
or any other dangerous animal or carnivorous wild animal or reptile, or any
other animal or reptile of wild, vicious, or dangerous propensities.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-13)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any wild mammal, reptile, or fowl which is not naturally
tame or gentle, but is of a wild nature or disposition, and which because of
its size, vicious nature, or other characteristics would constitute a danger to
human life or property if it escaped from secure quarters. DANGEROUS ANIMAL
also includes any domestic mammal, reptile, or fowl which because of its size
or vicious propensity or other characteristic would constitute a danger to
human life or property if it escaped from secure quarters.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-13)
§ 90.27  SPECIFIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED AS DANGEROUS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or have in his
or her possession or under his or her control within the city any of the
following animals:
      (1)   Any animal which has been declared to be protected or endangered by
the US Department of the Interior;
      (2)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes;
      (3)   Badgers (mustelidae);
      (4)   Bears (ursidae);
      (5)   Beavers (castoridae);
      (6)   Canids, that is: wolves, foxes, coyotes, jackals, dingo, raccoon
dogs, or any hybrid thereof;
      (7)   Civet (viverrines);
      (8)   Civet or raccoon dog (nycterevtes procyonoides);
      (9)   Constrictor snakes;
      (10)   Crocodilians, that is: alligators, crocodiles, caimans, and
cavials;
      (11)   Eagles, hawks, and owls;
      (12)   Edentata, that is: anteaters, tamanduas, sloths, and armadillos;
      (13)   Emus (casuariiformes);
      (14)   Felids, that is: lions, tigers, leopards, cheetahs, jaguars,
pumas, lynx, ocelots, bobcats, or any hybrid thereof;
      (15)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (16)   Hyenidea (hyenas);
      (17)   Marsupials, that is: opossums, Tasmanian wolf, kangaroos, koalas,
and wombats;
      (18)   Muskrats (ondatra);
      (19)   Ostriches (struthio);
      (20)   Porcupine (hystricomorpha);
      (21)   Primates (non-human) that is: apes, monkeys, baboons, chimpanzees,
gibbons, gorillas, orangutans, and siamangs;
      (22)   Procuoriids, that is: raccoons, coatis, kinkajous, ring-tailed
cats, and pandas;
      (23)   Rheas (frheiformes);
      (24)   Skunks (imephitinae);
      (25)   Squirrels (sduridae);
      (26)   Sharks (chondrichthyes);
      (27)   Swine (suidae);
      (28)   Ungulates, that is: elephants, zebra, tapirs, rhinoceroses, camel,
llama, caribou, antelope, bison, reindeer, deer, giraffe, hippopotamus, wild
boar, gazelle, and gnu;
      (29)   Water buffalo (bubalus);
      (30)   Wart hogs (phacochorus aethiopicus); and
      (31)   Weasels.
   (B)   Commercial animal shows or circus companies may obtain a permit from
the city for shows to be performed in the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-13)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Carnivals and circuses, see §
112.20
§ 90.28  OWNER TO REPORT ESCAPE OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS AND ANIMALS NOT INDIGENOUS
TO THE STATE.
   The owner or keeper of any member of a species of the animal kingdom that
escapes from their custody or control and that is a dangerous animal or is not
indigenous of this state, or presents a risk of serious physical harm to
persons or property shall, within one hour after he or she discovered or
reasonably should have discovered the escape, report it to a law enforcement
officer or elected official of the city, and to the County Sheriff’s Office.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-13)
FARM ANIMALS
§ 90.40  ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall allow any horse, cow, swine, sheep, or goat to run at large.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41  FOWL IN THE CITY.
   No person shall allow any ducks, geese, chickens, or other domestic fowl to
run at large.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Keeping fowl, see §
91.02
§ 90.42  KEEPING FARM ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep any horse, cow, goat, or sheep, or erect or maintain
any building or enclosure for use in keeping any such animals within 300 feet
of any dwelling house or building use for human habitation, other than that of
the owner of such animals. New enclosed buildings or structures containing
livestock within the 300-foot limit may be approved with an agreement from
adjacent land owners and will also need county approval.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43  PIGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place, keep, or maintain any live hogs within the city,
excepting such hogs as are kept in the yards or pens of the railway companies
for shipping purposes, or in pens, houses, or yards or stockyards, packing
houses, or butcher shops and kept for the purpose of immediate shipment or
slaughter.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4)  Penalty, see §
90.99
RAT ERADICATION
§ 90.55  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Any structure, either public, or private, that is adapted
for occupancy for transaction of business, play, sale, or storage of goods,
wares, or merchandise, or for the performance of work or labor, including, but
not being limited in this application, hotels, rooming houses, office
buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants, grain
elevators, warehouses, work shops, factories, and all out buildings, sheds,
barns, and other structures on premises used for business purposes.
   OCCUPANT. The individual or partnership who, or the corporation that, has
the use of or occupies any business building, or a part of or a portion
thereof, whether the actual owner, tenant, or subtenant. In the case of vacant
buildings, or any vacant portion of a business building, the owner, agent, or
other person having custody of said building shall have the responsibilities of
an OCCUPANT of said building.
   OWNER. The actual owner of the business building, either individual,
partnership, or corporation, the agent of the owner in charge of said building,
and the person having custody of said building, and the person to whom any
rental upon said building is paid. In the case of business buildings leased
under agreement that the lessee is responsible for maintenance and repairs, the
lessee will in such cases also be considered as the OWNER for the purpose of
this subchapter.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any condition which provides shelter or protection for rats,
thus favoring their multiplication and continuous existence in, under, or
outside of a structure of any kind.
   RAT-PROOFING. A form of rat-proofing to prevent the ingress into business
buildings, from the exterior or from one business building to another. It
consists essentially of the closing, with material impervious to rat gnawing,
of all openings in the exterior wall, ground or first floors, basements, and
foundations that may be reached by rats from the ground by climbing or by
burrowing.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-1)
§ 90.56  RAT-PROOFING BUILDINGS.
   It is hereby provided and required that all business buildings in said city
shall be rat-proofed, freed of rats, and maintained in a rat-proof and rat-free
condition, under the direction and supervision of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-2)
§ 90.57  NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Upon receipt of written notice and/or order from the City Council, the owner
of any building specified in said notice or order shall take immediate steps
for rat-proofing said buildings, and unless said work and improvements required
for such rat-proofing have been completed by the owner of said building in the
time specified in said written notice or order, or within the time to which a
written extension may have been granted by the City Council, then the owner
shall be deemed to have violated a provision of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-3)
§ 90.58  NOTICE, CHARGE AGAINST OWNER.
   Whenever the City Council notifies the occupant of a business building that
there is evidence of a rat infestation in said building, said occupant shall
immediately institute appropriate steps for freeing said building of rats
within ten days after receipt of such notice. If within ten days said building
is not free of rats, the city shall institute such action as is necessary and
shall charge occupant for labor, material, and equipment necessary for the
eradication measures carried out.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-4)
§ 90.59  MAINTAINING RAT-PROOF CONDITION.
   The occupants of all rat-proofing business buildings are required to
maintain the premises in a rat-proof condition and to repair all breaks and
leaks that may occur in the rat-proofing.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-5)
§ 90.60  INSPECTIONS.
   The City Council is empowered to make unannounced inspections of both the
interior and exterior of business buildings within the city as in its opinion
may be necessary to determine whether there has been a full compliance with
this subchapter, and to require a full compliance with this subchapter. If at
any time of any inspection, the City Council finds evidence of rat infestation,
and/or the existence of breaks or leaks in the rat-proofing, or new openings
through which rats may again enter said buildings, the City Council shall serve
upon the owner or occupant of said building a notice and/or order to abate the
conditions found.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-6)
§ 90.61  INSTALLATION OF FLOORS.
   Whenever conditions inside or under business buildings provide such
extensive harborage for rats that the City Council deems it necessary to
eliminate such harborage, he or she may require the owner to install cement
floors or basement or to replace wooden first floors or ground floors or
require the owner to correct such other interior rat harborage as may be
necessary in order to facilitate the eradication of rats in a reasonable length
of time.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-7)
§ 90.62  REMOVAL OF RAT-PROOFING.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant, owner, contractor, public utility
company, plumber, or any other person to remove the rat-proofing from any
business building for any purpose and fail to restore the same in a
satisfactory condition; and, in like manner, it shall be unlawful for any such
person to make any new openings that are not sealed or closed against the
entrance of rats.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-8)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.63  METAL OR PLASTIC CONTAINERS.
   Everywhere within the city, all garbage or other refuse shall be placed and
stored in covered metal or plastic containers, compartments, or rooms, unless
kept in a rat-proof building.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-9)
§ 90.64  DUMPING OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place, leave,
dump, or permit the accumulation of any garbage, rubbish, or trash in any
building or upon any premises in said city so that the same shall or may
provide food or harborage for rats.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-10)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.65  STORAGE OF LUMBER AND OTHER MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit to
accumulate upon any premises, whether improved or vacant, or upon any open lot
or alley in said city, any lumber, boxes, barrels, bricks, stones, or any other
materials that may be permitted to remain thereupon for any longer time than a
temporary period reasonably required for the use of such materials in a
building or repairing of property, unless same shall be placed on open racks
that are elevated not less than 18 inches above the ground, and evenly piled or
stacked so that such material will not afford harborage for rats.
(Prior Code, § 6-13-11)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any dog or cat owner who fails to purchase a license, as provided by §
90.03, for their dog or cat shall be subject to a fine of $25 as set in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
90.01 to
90.13 and §§
90.25 to
90.28 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. Any person who violates the
provisions of §§
90.01 to
90.13 and §§
90.25 to
90.28 shall be deemed to have engaged in a public nuisance as defined in SDCL
Chapter 21-10.
      (2)   Any owner who allows a vicious animal to be in violation of the
provisions of §
90.13 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, if convicted, will be guilty of a
further violation each day that such condition is allowed to exist or goes
uncorrected.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-13)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definition; nuisances generally
   
91.02   Keeping fowl
   
91.03   Notice and order of violation
   
91.04   Emergency action without notice
   
91.05   Abatement
   
91.06   Appeals
Public Nuisances
   
91.20   Definition; remedy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  DEFINITION; NUISANCES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Nuisances prohibited. No person shall create, commit, maintain, or
permit to be created, committed, or maintained any nuisance as defined herein.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Whatever is dangerous to human health, whatever renders the
ground, the water, the air, or food a hazard or an injury to human health, and
the following specific acts, conditions, and things are, each and all of them,
hereby declared to constitute nuisances:
         (a)   Bonfires in public places. Burning, causing, or permitting to be
burned in any street, alley, or public ground any dirt, filth, manure, garbage,
sweeping leaves, ashes, paper, rubbish, or material of any kind;
         (b)   Breeding place for flies. The accumulation of manure, garbage,
or anything whatever in which flies breed;
         (c)   Dangerous agencies. Anything that is dangerous to human health
or which renders the ground, the water, the air, or food a hazard or injury, to
the public health;
         (d)   Dead animals. For the owner of a dead animal or fowl to permit
it to remain non-disposed of longer than 24 hours after its death;
         (e)   Dilapidated buildings. A building or structure within the city
limits which is so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary, or utterly fails
to provide the amenities essential to decent living that is unfit for human
habitation and is likely to cause or is causing aggravation, sickness, or
disease so as to work an injury to the health, morals, safety, or general
welfare of the community;
         (f)   Farm and other live animals. No person shall keep any live farm
animals which are deemed to include horses, cattle, swine, sheep, and other
animals that are normally raised or kept on farms. No person shall keep any
live wild animals. No person shall keep any live animals in a manner so as to
cause a public nuisance within the city limits. No person shall keep any ducks,
geese, turkeys, pheasants, quail, partridges, guineas, pigeons or other like
domestic fowl within the city limits, except for chickens kept within the
provisions of this section;
         (g)   Garbage and refuse. Depositing, maintaining, or permitting to be
maintained or to accumulate upon any public or private property, any household
wastewater, sewage, garbage, tin cans, offal, or excrement, any decaying fruit,
vegetables, fish, meat, or bones or any foul, putrid, or obnoxious liquid
substance;
         (h)   Garbage handling improperly. Throwing or letting fall or
permitting to remain on any street, alley, or public ground, highway to dumping
ground and any highway within one mile of the city limits, any manure, garbage,
rubbish, filth, fuel, or wood while engaging in handling or removing and
transporting such substances;
         (i)   Ice boxes, refrigerators, or air-tight container. The keeping,
leaving, or permitting to retain outside of any dwelling, building, or other
structures or premises, in a place accessible to children, of any discarded ice
boxes, refrigerators, or other container which has an air-tight door or lid,
snap lock, or other locking device which may not be released from the inside,
without first removing the said door or lid, snap lock, or other locking device
from said ice box, refrigerator, or container, is declared to be a nuisance and
in violation of SDCL 34-28-3; the person responsible for said violation shall
be subject to a fine in an amount set by the City Council and on file in the
office of the City Finance Officer;
         (j)   Imperfect plumbing. Any imperfect, leaking, unclean, or filthy
sink, water closet, urinal, or other plumbing fixture in any building used or
occupied by human beings;
         (k)   Impure water. Any well or other supply of water used for
drinking or household purposes which is polluted or which is so constructed or
situated that it may become polluted;
         (l)   Manure. The accumulation of manure;
         (m)   Nuisance parking and storing. Parking or storing any vehicle,
camper, trailer, or watercraft outside in the yard area adjacent to a street
and on the lawn or ground surface other than on a permeable or porous pavement
or paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area; provided, however, that
this prohibition shall not apply to a vehicle camper, trailer, or watercraft
that is enclosed by a fence, wall, hedge, or other substantial obstruction and
is not visible to the public from the adjacent street. Vehicles, campers,
watercraft, and other articles stored outside on residential property must be
owned by a person who resides on or owns the property. Students who are away
from school for periods of time but still claim the property as their legal
residence will be considered residents on the property. YARD AREA ADJACENT TO A
STREET means the horizontal distance between the right-of-way of a street to
the foundation of the primary structure on the lot;
         (n)   Offensive premises. Permitting any grocery store, shop, factory,
warehouse, stable, barn, or other place to become nauseous or offensive;
         (o)   Parking trucks or trailers in residential districts. Parking or
permitting a truck or trailer on any street, area, or public ground in a
residential district when such truck or trailer gives off an offensive odor or
is contaminated with manure or other filth or which when operating produces
loud offensive noise;
         (p)   Poison ivy. Permitting poison ivy to be or grow upon any private
property nearer than 15 feet from the sidewalk or any public street;
         (q)   Polluting bodies of water. Throwing or leaving any dead animals
or decayed animal or vegetable matter or any slops of filth whatever, either
solid, or fluid into any pool of water;
         (r)   Privies and cesspools. Erecting or maintaining any privy or
cesspool except such sanitary privies and cesspools, the plans of which are
approved by the State Health Department;
         (s)   Rodents. Accumulation of junk, old iron, automobiles, cement
slabs, or parts thereof, or anything whatever in which rodents may live or
breed or accumulate;
         (t)   Rubbish on street. The piling or depositing of any dirt,
shavings, sawdust, leaves, ashes, manure, straw, or waste material of any kind
upon street, alley, or public ground;
         (u)   Smokestacks and smoke nuisance. The construction, use, or
maintenance of any smokestack or chimney, which emits sparks, cinders, or dense
smoke, which is dangerous to the health, comfort, or property of persons, or
the value of the property;
         (v)   Stagnant water. Any excavation in which stagnant water is
permitted to collect;
         (w)   Unconfined refuse. The depositing, unloading, placing, storing,
or otherwise piling of any dirt, straw, shavings, seeds, grain screenings,
chaff, leaves, ashes, paper, or material of any kind upon property without
covering the same in order to prevent it to be moved and blown about by wind
upon property of another or upon any street or alley or public property;
         (x)   Undressed hides. Undressed hides kept longer than 24 hours,
except at the place where they are to be manufactured, or in a storeroom, or
basement whose construction is approved by the Health Department;
         (y)   Use of sanitary sewer. Permitting drainage water, blood,
buttermilk, whey, by-products of milk, sewer pipe consuming acids, or any
substance or material which interferes with the normal flow of sewage or
prevents, blocks, or stops the flow of sewage; and
         (z)   Weeds and grasses. Permitting weeds and grasses to grow to
maturity or over ten inches high on any private property including vacant lots.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-1)  (Ord. 502, passed 8-7-2017; Ord. 513, passed 7-1-2019) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02  KEEPING FOWL.
   (A)   Definitions regarding chickens. For the purpose of this section, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      BROODING. The period of chicken growth when supplemental heat must be
provided due to the bird’s inability to generate enough body heat.
      CHICK. A baby chicken not more than six weeks old.
      CHICKEN. A domesticated bird of the order of Galliformes in the genus of
Galius (chickens) that serves as a source of eggs or meat.
      COCKEREL. A young male chicken.
      COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of chickens permitted by
the ordinance.
      EXERCISE YARD. A larger fenced area that provides space for exercise and
foraging for the birds when supervised.
      HEN. A female chicken.
      OFFICER. Any person designated by the City Council as an enforcement
officer.
      PULLET. A young laying chicken, less than one year old.
      REVOCABLE PERMIT. It is the purpose and intent of this section to permit
the keeping and maintenance of brooding chicks, pullets, and hens for egg and
meat sources in a clean and sanitary manner that is not a nuisance to or
detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare of the community. The
keeping and maintenance of brooding chicks, pullets, and hens is permitted to
all residents who comply with all requirements, limitations, or prohibitions of
this section. Such permit may be revoked if the person holding the permit
refuses or fails to comply with this chapter or with any state or local law
governing cruelty to animals or the keeping of animals. Any revocation shall be
effective after ten days following written notice thereof to the person or
persons keeping or maintaining such chickens. Any person whose permit is
revoked within ten days thereafter shall humanely dispose of all chickens being
owned, kept, or harbored by such person.
      ROOSTER. A male chicken.
      RUN. A fully enclosed and covered area attached to a coop where the
chickens can roam unsupervised.
   (B)   Investigation and enforcement. Officers designated by the City Manager
shall have authority in the investigation and enforcement of this section, and
no person shall interfere with or hinder such officer in the exercise of such
powers. The Code Enforcement Officer shall make investigations as is necessary.
   (C)   Limitations on the number and keeping of chickens. Chickens may only
be kept within areas of the city zoned to permit single-family dwellings as
outlined: no more than eight laying/meat hens shall be housed or kept on any
one residential lot. Residents may possess a like number of brooding or pullet
chicks intended for the cyclical replacement of hens, but not for the purpose
of sale or resale. Once pullets reach full laying potential, the flock numbers
must be returned to no more than eight laying/meat chickens. Roosters and
chicken breeding are prohibited. Cockerels must be culled from broods when
identified.
   (D)   Chicken facilities.
      (1)   A separate coop is required to house the chickens together with a
reasonably satisfactory exercise yard, run, or yard fencing so as to keep
chickens confined at all times. Chicken facilities must be constructed and
maintained to meet the following minimum standards: located in the rear or side
yard. Set back is as required by the zoning district for structures on the real
property. The housing of chickens on property will require a permit and
registration fee payable at City Hall.
      (2)   Coop construction and materials must be adequate to prevent access
by rodents. Coops must be maintained in good repair. Coops or cages housing
chickens shall be kept at least 20 feet from the door or window of any dwelling
of an occupied structure other than the owner’s dwelling. Coops and manure
storage shall be kept 20 feet from streams, tributaries, ditches, storm water
management facilities, drop inlets, or other storm drainage areas that would
allow fecal matter to enter any city storm drainage system or stream. Dumping
chicken manure into the city’s storm drainage system is prohibited.
      (3)   Chickens must not be housed in a residential house or an attached
or detached garage, except for brooding purposes only.
      (4)   All premises on which chickens are kept or maintained shall be kept
clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract rodents. The coop
and its surrounding area must be cleaned frequently enough to control odor.
Manure and coop waste shall not be allowed to accumulate in a way that causes
an unsanitary condition or causes odors detectible on another property. Manure
and coop waste that is not composted or immediately spread as fertilizer must
be secured and double bagged in solid waste bags and kept in a solid waste
container. Chickens shall not be kept in such a manner as to constitute a
nuisance to the occupants of adjacent property.
      (5)   Except for chickens properly slaughtered for consumption, dead
chickens must be disposed of within 48 hours after death. Legal forms of
chicken carcass disposal include burial and off-site incineration or rendering.
All slaughtering of chickens shall be conducted so as not to be visible to the
public or adjacent property owners and occupants.
      (6)   All grain and food stored for the use of the chickens shall be kept
in a rodent-proof container.
      (7)   Chickens shall be kept so that visibility is substantially
obstructed to the traveling public or surrounding property owners.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-1)  (Ord. 502, passed 8-7-2017)
§ 91.03  NOTICE AND ORDER OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever an authorized city official determines that there has been a
violation of this code or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred,
notice and order shall be given to the owner of the property where the
violation is occurring, and/or the person(s) responsible for the property.
   (B)   Such notice and order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the property where the violation is
occurring, sufficient for identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation(s);
      (4)   Include an order to correct the violation and bring the property
into compliance with the provisions of this code within a specified, reasonable
amount of time. Notice and order to cut weeds and grasses may be given at the
beginning of or during the growing season and shall require the owner or person
(s) responsible for the property, within seven days after the mailing thereof
and at all times subsequent during the growing season as may be necessary, to
cut and remove all weeds and grasses as described in §
91.02;
      (5)   Inform the property owner or other persons responsible of his, her,
or their right to appeal; and
      (6)   Notice shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is:
         (a)   Delivered in person;
         (b)   Sent by certified or first-class mail to the last known address
of the owner or occupant; or
         (c)   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or about
the property where the violation is occurring.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-2)
§ 91.04  EMERGENCY ACTION WITHOUT NOTICE.
   The previous action shall not apply to any nuisance that an authorized city
official believes is an immediate danger to any person, in which case said
official may take emergency action to abate the nuisance immediately without
the notice and order described in §
91.02.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-3)
§ 91.05  ABATEMENT.
   If the person so notified and ordered as set forth in §
91.02 fails to correct the condition as required in the notice and order within
the time specified, an authorized city official may cause the condition to be
abated by initiating whatever actions are necessary to correct the condition
and cause it to be in compliance with this code. Any expense incurred by the
city in the abatement of a nuisance may be recovered through civil suit or
through the special assessment against the property. The remedy of abatement
shall be in addition to all other remedies available.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-4)
§ 91.06  APPEALS.
   Any notice and order issued under this article may be appealed to the City
Council. Such appeal shall be made in writing within ten days of issuance of
the notice and order and filed with the City Finance Officer. Such appeals
shall be scheduled for the next City Council meeting and considered at that
time. Any action to abate shall be stayed until the City Council makes its
determination. Any appeals of the City Council’s decision shall be made to the
Circuit Court of record within 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 6-9-5)
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 91.20  DEFINITION; REMEDY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Consists in unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to
perform a duty, within the corporate limits of the city or in any public
grounds or parks belonging to the city or within one mile of the corporate
limits of the city, which act or omission either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any lake or navigable river, bay, stream, canal,
or basin or any public park, square, or highway; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use of
property, or which affects at the same time an entire community or
neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal.
   (B)   Remedies. The remedies against a public nuisance shall be those
prescribed by SDCL 21-10-5, or by other statute.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-1)
Cross-reference:
   Additional nuisances, see Title 13
CHAPTER 92: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Weeds
   
92.01   Duty of owner
   
92.02   Notice to destroy weeds
   
92.03   Action upon noncompliance
   
92.04   Costs recovered
Unfit Property; Abandoned Property
   
92.15   Maintenance of buildings and premises
   
92.16   Sanitation of buildings and premises
   
92.17   Enforcement and abatement
   
92.18   Issuance of notice to abate
   
92.19   Failure to abate
   
92.20   Abatement by state law
   
92.21   Cost assessment and collections of costs incurred
   
92.22   Abandoned property; removal and storage
   
92.23   Sale of unclaimed abandoned property
   
92.24   Sale proceeds credited to General Fund of city
 
   
92.99   Penalty
WEEDS
§ 92.01  DUTY OF OWNER.
   Permitting weeds to grow to maturity on any private property, including
vacant lots, is hereby declared to be a nuisance. No owner of any lot, place,
or area within the city, or the agent of such owner or the occupant of such
lot, place, or area, shall permit to grow, lie, or be located on such lot,
place, or area or upon any sidewalk abutting the same, any weeds, grass, or
deleterious or unhealthful growths or other noxious matter that may be growing,
lying, or located thereon, and the growing of such weeds or other noxious or
unhealthful vegetation is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-1)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  NOTICE TO DESTROY WEEDS.
   The City Council shall notify, in writing, the owner, agent, or occupants to
cut, destroy, or remove any such weeds, grass, deleterious or unhealthful
growths, or other noxious matter found growing, lying, or located on such
property or upon the sidewalk abutting same. Notice shall be certified mail
addressed to said owner, agent, or occupant at his or her last known address.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-2)
§ 92.03  ACTION UPON NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Upon failure, neglect, or refusal of any owner, agent, or occupant so
notified to comply with such notice within a period not less than two days
after personal receipt or ten days after the mailing date thereof, the City
Council may provide for the cutting, destroying, or removal of such weeds,
grass, or deleterious matter or other noxious growths and defray the cost of
the destruction thereof by special assessment against the property.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-3)
§ 92.04  COSTS RECOVERED.
   (A)   The Finance Officer shall cause an account to be kept against each lot
for the destruction of noxious weeds upon said lot as herein provided and
shall, after completion of the work, bill the owner of the property for such
work and, if not paid within 30 days thereafter, the Finance Officer shall
thereupon add such assessment to the general assessment against said property.
The Finance Officer shall certify such special assessment together with the
regular assessment to the County Auditor to be collected as municipal taxes for
general purposes.
   (B)   Said assessment shall be subject to review and equalization the same
as assessments or taxes for general purposes. In lieu of special assessment,
the City Council may institute a civil action against the owner or occupant of
such property to recover said account.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-4)
UNFIT PROPERTY; ABANDONED PROPERTY
§ 92.15  MAINTENANCE OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, leasing, occupying, or
having charge of possession of any buildings or premises in the city to keep or
maintain such buildings or premises in a manner which is at variance with, and
inferior to the level or maintenance of surrounding properties.
   (B)   The following condition or conditions constitutes such a variance and
are hereby declared a public nuisance:
      (1)   Buildings which are or appear to be abandoned, boarded up,
partially destroyed, or partially constructed and uncompleted subsequent to the
expiration of the building permits;
      (2)   Buildings with deteriorating or peeling paint that allows the
exterior building coverings to deteriorate or permit the effects of sun and
water penetration so as to encourage decay, dry rot, warping, and cracking;
      (3)   Buildings with broken windows, doors, attic vents, and under floor
vents;
      (4)   Overgrown vegetation over ten inches, excluding agricultural land
in the city, which is unsightly and/or likely to harbor rats or vermin;
      (5)   Dead, decaying, or diseased trees, weeds, and other vegetation;
      (6)   Abandoned, discarded, or unused furniture, stoves, refrigerators,
sinks, toilets, cabinets, or other household fixtures or equipment stored so as
to be visible at ground level from a public alley, street, or adjoining
premises;
      (7)   Unlicensed, abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative
trailers, campers, boats, and other motor vehicles which are accumulated and
stored in yards;
      (8)   Building exteriors, walls, fences, driveways, or walkways which are
cracked, broken, defective, or deteriorated, in disrepair, or defaced; and
      (9)   Any like or similar condition or conditions.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-1)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16  SANITATION OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to permit by act or omission the following
specific acts, conditions, and things which are hereby declared to be public
nuisances:
      (1)   Failing, refusing, or neglecting to keep sidewalk, if such exists,
in front of a house, place of business, or premises in a clean and safe
condition;
      (2)   Maintaining upon such premises any unsightly, partly complete, or
partly destroyed buildings, structures, or improvements in the city which may
endanger or injure neighboring properties or the public health, safety, and
general welfare; and
      (3)   Maintaining upon such premises or upon the sidewalk abutting or
adjoining such lot, parcel, tract, or piece of land, loose earth, mound of
soil, fill material, asphalt, concrete, rubber of waste material of any kind
(all such materials shall hereinafter be referred to as “waste materials”),
except for waste materials used for construction or landscaping upon premises,
in which case it shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, occupant, or persons
in possession of the premises wherein the waste material exist, to maintain
weed control during construction and to level or remove waste materials after
construction is completed, or in any event, within six months from the time of
the placement of waste materials upon premises.
   (B)   For sites where filling, grading, or excavating activities have or
will span more than one year, it shall be the duty of the owner, lessee,
occupant, or person in possession of said premises to level or remove the waste
materials from said premises at least once a year during the months of either
June, July, or August for the purpose of maintaining weed and rodent control.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-2)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17  ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any Council member or elector of the city can bring a complaint to the
City Council, in writing, that there exists within the city limits a building
or structure that constitutes as dilapidated or nuisance property within the
meaning of this subchapter.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the complaint, the City Council may set a date and
time for a hearing to determine the condition of the building, structure, or
property and the action to be taken.
   (C)   The last owner of record at the County Register of Deeds and, if
different, the person who receives the tax notice from the County Treasurer
shall be given at least 14 days’ notice by certified mail of the date, time,
and place of said hearing. At that hearing, the Council and Mayor shall hear
testimony and take evidence as to the condition of the building or structure.
   (D)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce as to the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the City Council or its authorized
representative has reasonable cause to believe there exists in any building or
upon any premises, any condition which is prohibited under this subchapter,
that Building Official, Council member, or authorized representative may enter
such building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to
perform any duty imposed upon the City Council by this subchapter. If such
building or premises is occupied, he or she shall first make reasonable effort
to locate the owner or other person having charge of such premises and show
proper credentials and demand entry. If such entry is refused, that authorized
representative shall have recourse of every remedy provided by law to secure
entry.
   (E)   No owner or occupant or any other person having charge or care of any
building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper demand made as hereby
provided, to properly permit entry therein by that Council member or their
authorized representative for the purpose of inspection and examination
pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-3)
§ 92.18  ISSUANCE OF NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   If at the hearing, held pursuant to §
92.03, the City Council determines that a nuisance exists, the city shall have
cause to give notice to abate the unlawful condition or conditions existing on
the premises.
   (B)   Such notice shall be in writing to the person creating, permitting, or
maintaining such nuisance to abate the same within a reasonable time as
provided in such notice as follows.
      (1)   If the Council has determined that the building or structure must
be repaired, the order shall require that all required permits be secured
therefor and the work physically commenced with such time not to exceed 30 days
from the date of the order and completed within such time as the City Council
shall determine is reasonable under all of the circumstances.
      (2)   If the Council has determined that the building or structure must
be vacated, the order shall require that the building or structure shall be
vacated within a certain time from the date of the order as determined by the
Council to be reasonable.
      (3)   If the City Council has determined that the building or structure
must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be vacated within
such time as the Council shall determine reasonable (not to exceed 60 days from
the date of the order). The order shall also require that all necessary permits
be secured thereof within 60 days from the date of the order and that the
demolition be completed within such time as the Council shall determine
reasonable.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-4)
§ 92.19  FAILURE TO ABATE.
   (A)   In the event a person shall fail to abate any nuisance permitted or
maintained by him or her following written notice to him or her to do so, the
City Council or the authorized representative shall cause such nuisance to be
abated.
   (B)   (1)   The Finance Officer shall prepare a statement of expense
incurred in the razing, demolishing, removing, reconstruction, or other
affirmative act necessary to abate the unlawful condition and shall file such
statement with the Finance Officer.
      (2)   Such abatement shall refer to the particular premises, including
any improvements, structures, or buildings thereon, upon which the actions
taken to abate the unlawful condition occurred.
      (3)   With regard to the premises of each piece of property therein
referred to, the statement shall show the legal description in which the lot
lies.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-5)
§ 92.20  ABATEMENT BY STATE LAW.
   In addition to the method of abatement of nuisances provided in this
chapter, the city may abate any nuisance found within the city in the manner
provided by the state law or recover the expense so incurred from the person
maintaining such nuisance in a civil suit instituted for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-6)
§ 92.21  COST ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTIONS OF COSTS INCURRED.
   The Finance Officer is hereby authorized to bill the expense incurred from
the abatement and, if payment is not received within 90 days, the Finance
Officer is authorized to send a copy of the bill to the County Treasurer’s
office for collection through taxes, and, if county taxes are currently
delinquent at the time of filing, the Finance Officer is hereby instructed to
pursue the collection through a civil suit to collect debt incurred against
that delinquent tax property.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-7)
§ 92.22  ABANDONED PROPERTY; REMOVAL AND STORAGE.
   Any automobile, vehicle, or other personal property which has been abandoned
for 60 days upon the streets, alleys, or other public places, shall be taken
into possession by the city and shall be stored at such location as shall be
designated by the City Council for a period of at least 90 days, during which
time the owner or owners may redeem such property upon paying the cost of
removal and storage.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-8)
§ 92.23  SALE OF UNCLAIMED ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   If such personal property be not reclaimed within the 90-day period, the
abandoned property may be sold by the city at public auction, at such location
as may be determined by the City Council, after publishing, at least ten days
prior to the date of such sale, a notice describing the property to be sold and
the place of such sale.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-9)
§ 92.24  SALE PROCEEDS CREDITED TO GENERAL FUND OF CITY.
   Immediately after such sale, the person making such sale shall file a report
thereof with the Finance Officer and the proceedings of such sale shall be
deposited with the City Finance Officer and credited to the General Fund of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-10)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person whose duty it is to destroy or remove such noxious weeds or
unhealthful vegetation as set forth in §§
92.01 to
92.04 or who fails to destroy same within the time hereinbefore set forth
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalties established in §§
92.01 to
92.04, in addition to any other penalties as prescribed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-10-5)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
92.15 to
92.24 shall be subject penalties set in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-12-7)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Abandonment of Vehicles
   
93.001   Definitions
   
93.002   Abandonment of vehicles
   
93.003   Determination of abandonment
   
93.004   Leaving of wrecked, non-operating vehicle on street
   
93.005   Disposition of wrecked or discarded vehicles
   
93.006   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
93.007   Lien for costs
   
93.008   Recovery by owner or lien holder
   
93.009   When title may vest in city
   
93.010   Title may vest in city; notice to the Commissioner of Vehicles
   
93.011   Sale of unclaimed vehicle
Names of Streets and Avenues
   
93.025   Plats adopted
   
93.026   Official map
   
93.027   Names of the streets and avenues
Sidewalks
   
93.040   Supervision of sidewalk and curbing construction
   
93.041   Specifications
   
93.042   Width of sidewalks
   
93.043   Property owner responsible for sidewalk repair
   
93.044   Construct, rebuild, repair of sidewalk
   
93.045   Construction requirements
   
93.046   Curb and gutter construction
Snow Removal
   
93.060   Duty of owner or occupant
   
93.061   Duty of City Foreman
   
93.062   Refusal to remove snow and ice
   
93.063   Account to be kept for the removal of snow and ice
Trees in Public Places
   
93.075   Trimming trees
   
93.076   Permission to plant and maintain
   
93.077   Injuring trees
   
93.078   Guidewires
   
93.079   Public service corporation
   
93.080   Appeal
   
93.081   Trees and grass plots
   
93.082   Cottonwood trees
Use of Streets and Public Places
   
93.095   Obstruction on streets
   
93.096   Materials in streets, permits
   
93.097   Cleaning streets or sidewalks of rubbish
   
93.098   Excavation near street
   
93.099   Building in street
   
93.100   Eave pipes
   
93.101   Garbage in streets
   
93.102   Animals and vehicles on sidewalks
   
93.103   Use of streets for sale of vehicles and the like
Excavation in Public Places
   
93.115   Permit required
   
93.116   Application
   
93.117   Supervision of excavations
   
93.118   Guarding excavations
   
93.119   Refilling excavations
   
93.120   Cutting pavements
   
93.121   Excavations near streets
   
93.122   Operating in sidewalks
   
93.123   Excavations under sidewalks
   
93.124   Curb and gutter
 
   
93.999   Penalty
ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES
§ 93.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, or tractor.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1)
§ 93.002  ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-2)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.003  DETERMINATION OF ABANDONMENT.
   Whenever any vehicle is left unattended on any public street, alley, public
place, or parking lot within the city for longer than 24 hours without approval
of the Chief of Police where such vehicle is parked, it shall be deemed to be
an abandoned vehicle and subject to provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-3)
§ 93.004  LEAVING OF WRECKED, NON-OPERATING VEHICLE ON STREET.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, or
junked vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-4)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.005  DISPOSITION OF WRECKED OR DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on
such property longer than ten days; and no person shall leave any such vehicle
on any property within the city for a longer time than ten days; except that
this subchapter shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed
building, or to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in
a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise, or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city or authorized by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-5)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.006  DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   The Chief of Police or any member of his or her Department designated by him
or her is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any
place within the city which reasonably appears to be in violation of this
subchapter or lost, stolen, or unclaimed. Such vehicle shall be impounded until
lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with SDCL 32-36-8, a Chief of
Police shall give notice to the owner and lien holders after removal pursuant
to state law.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-6)
§ 93.007  LIEN FOR COSTS.
   The Police Department, or whomever is designated by the Chief of Police to
provide storage to the abandoned vehicle, shall have a possessory lien upon any
vehicle removed under the provisions of this subchapter for the costs in taking
custody of and storage of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-7)
§ 93.008  RECOVERY BY OWNER OR LIEN HOLDER.
   The registered owner or lien holder of any vehicle removed and stored under
the provisions of this article may recover the same upon the payment of all
costs incident to the removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-8)
§ 93.009  WHEN TITLE MAY VEST IN CITY.
   If after six months from the mailing date of notice of removal and storage
provided for by this subchapter, the vehicle shall remain unclaimed, the title
to such vehicle may be vested in the city, and such vehicle may be disposed of
in any manner as may be provided by the City Council. The proceeds of any such
disposal shall first be applied to the costs incurred in the enforcement of
this subchapter with the balance to be deposited to the General Fund of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-9)
§ 93.010  TITLE MAY VEST IN CITY; NOTICE TO THE COMMISSIONER OF VEHICLES.
   Within 30 days after acquiring title to any vehicle under the provisions of
this subchapter, the city shall notify the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles
thereof and shall provide the Commissioner all facts and information relevant
thereof of as he or she may require. Upon receipt thereof, the Commissioner
shall appropriate mark the title and registration records and notify the owner
of the records at his or her last known address of the actions taken.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-10)
§ 93.011  SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   After three months from the date of mailing the notice of removal and
storage provided by for this subchapter the vehicle shall remain unclaimed,
such vehicle may be sold by the Police Department at public auction upon notice
to be published in newspaper of general circulation in the county not less than
once a week for two consecutive weeks.
   (B)   The notice of sale provided by this subchapter shall contain a
description of the removal and stored vehicle, including the year, make, model,
serial number, color, license number, if any, a statement that the vehicle was
found abandoned, the date thereof, the place, date, and time of which such
vehicle shall be sold, which date shall not be sooner than one week following
the date of the last publication of notice of sale.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-11)
NAMES OF STREETS AND AVENUES
§ 93.025  PLATS ADOPTED.
   Those plats indicating the names of streets and avenues of the city, now on
file in the office of the County Register of Deeds, are hereby incorporated as
a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 93.026  OFFICIAL MAP.
   The official map of the city shall be those maintained in the office of the
County Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)
§ 93.027  NAMES OF THE STREETS AND AVENUES.
   The official names of the streets and avenues in the city shall be those as
shown on the official map or maps maintained in the office of the County
Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.040  SUPERVISION OF SIDEWALK AND CURBING CONSTRUCTION.
   The building and construction of all sidewalks and cubing within the limits
of the streets and alleys of the city shall be done under direct supervision of
agents and all such sidewalks shall be constructed on the grades as determined
by the said city.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1)
§ 93.041  SPECIFICATIONS.
   The construction of all sidewalks and curbing, whether to be done by direct
contract with the city or by contract with the abutting property owners, shall
be done strictly in accordance with the specifications for sidewalks and
curbing adopted by the Council and on file in the office of the Finance
Officer. The Council shall have full power to condemn work and material not in
accordance with the requirements of said specifications.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2)
§ 93.042  WIDTH OF SIDEWALKS.
   The width of the sidewalks in the residential districts shall be five feet
and the width of sidewalks in the business district shall be eight feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-3)
§ 93.043  PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR SIDEWALK REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the person in possession of any lot, parcel, or plot
of ground fronting or abutting upon any sidewalk, to keep such a sidewalk in
repair as provided by SDCL 9-46-2.1 through 9-46-4.2.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-4)
§ 93.044  CONSTRUCT, REBUILD, REPAIR OF SIDEWALK.
   When the City Council deems it necessary to construct, rebuild, or repair
any sidewalk in the city, it shall notify the owners of lots adjoining the
sidewalks to construct, build, or repair the sidewalk at his or her own expense
with a designated time. The written notice shall be served personally or by
certified mail, return receipt, or by publication, once in each week for two
consecutive weeks. If the sidewalk is not constructed, reconstructed, or
repaired in a manner or within the time prescribed in the notice, the City
Council may cause the work to be done by the hour or by the job, assess the
cost of the work against the lots fronting or abutting upon the sidewalk as
provided by SDCL 9-46-4 through 9-46-9.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-5)
§ 93.045  CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All sidewalks being replaced or of new construction shall have curb cuts and
comply with all  regulations promulgated under the Americans with Disabilities
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
(Ord. 368, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 93.046  CURB AND GUTTER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In addition to the construction of new curbs and gutters on any
streets within the city, there shall be curbs and gutters in all commercial
industrial areas within the city, and, in any new residential areas, there
shall be curbs, gutters, and sidewalks and water and sewer service shall be
studded on to the property.
   (B)   (1)   Curbs shall be single radius, vertical construction with 12-inch
back, six-inch face, six-inch front abutting street, 24-inch total width, and
maximum two-inch radius on bottom of curb face. New construction may have
square or rounded edge on street side.
      (2)   It is provided that any new construction of curb or gutter which
shall abut existing curbs shall have the following specifications:
         (a)   This exception shall only apply to any existing curb or gutter
construction prior to 1967; and
         (b)   The specifications of the aforementioned curbs and gutters shall
be on file at the office of the City Auditor of the city and may be only
changed by ordinance of the governing body.
(Ord. 375, passed 6-5-1995; Ord. 385, passed 9-2-1997)
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 93.060  DUTY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant, or person in possession or in
charge of any lot, parcel, or plot of ground or residential property fronting
or abutting upon any sidewalk to keep such sidewalk free and clear from snow
and ice within 24 hours after any fall of snow and it shall be the duty of the
owner, occupant, or person in possession or in charge of any lot, parcel, or
plot of ground of business property located within a commercial district,
fronting or abutting upon any public sidewalk, to keep such sidewalk free and
clear from snow and ice at all times. When it is impossible to take snow and
ice from such walk because it is frozen to the sidewalk, the owner, occupant,
or person in possession or in charge of such lot shall sprinkle or spread such
suitable material upon the same to prevent the walk from becoming slippery and
dangerous to travel, and in removing snow from said sidewalk it shall be
unlawful for any person to shovel or blade the snow so removed into the street
after the street has been cleared of snow by the city snow removal equipment.
All power cords crossing sidewalks must be kept a minimum of eight feet above
the ground.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.061  DUTY OF CITY FOREMAN.
   It shall be the duty of the City Foreman to notify all owners or persons in
possession of property abutting on sidewalks in the city to keep such sidewalk
free from snow and ice, and remove the same within 24 hours after every fall of
snow. Such notice need not be given personally, but may be given generally by
one publication in the official newspaper of the city; which notice shall state
that each owner or person in possessions is required to keep the sidewalks on
which their property or premises abut free and clear from snow and ice.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2)
§ 93.062  REFUSAL TO REMOVE SNOW AND ICE.
   If the owner or person in possession of said premises fails or refuses to
remove the snow and ice after every fall of snow from such sidewalks within the
time above specified, the City Foreman may have the snow and ice removed and
charge the costs thereof against the abutting property each time the snow is so
removed.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3)
§ 93.063  ACCOUNT TO BE KEPT FOR THE REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   The City Foreman shall cause an account to be kept against each lot or
parcel of land for the removal of snow from the sidewalk and the same shall be
certified to the Finance Officer on or before April 15 of each year. The
Finance Officer shall prepare an estimate of the assessment against each lot or
parcel of land for removal of snow for the preceding winter and fall, and
submit the same to the City Council for its approval at or before its first
meeting in June, and shall publish in the official newspaper of the city a
notice to property owners of the time and place when the City Council will meet
for the purpose of approving such estimates. Upon the day so named, the City
Council shall meet, and if it finds said estimates correct, shall approve the
same, or if not correct, it shall correct or modify the same and approve the
same as corrected and modified, and file such assessment with the City Finance
Officer. From the date of such approval and filing, the assessment shall become
a special lien against the various pieces of property described in said
assessment, and shall be collected in like manner as special assessments now
collected for public improvements.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4)
TREES IN PUBLIC PLACES
§ 93.075  TRIMMING TREES.
   The occupant of any private premises, or the owner of the same if not
occupied, abutting on any public street, road, or alley within the city shall
keep all trees standing upon such premises, or between the same and the center
of adjoining street, road, or alley so trimmed that no bough or branches
thereof shall be lower than ten feet above the surface of the sidewalk, no
bough or branches thereof shall be lower than 16 feet above the surface of the
street, road, or alley; provided that upon the failure of any occupant or owner
to trim such trees as in this section provided, the City Council shall have
authority to remove or cause to be removed under its provisions any trunk,
limb, or branch of any tree that is, or in the judgment of said Council, which
shall extend or hang lower than ten feet above surface of any walkway or
sidewalk, 16 feet above surface of any street, road, alley, whether such trees
be growing on privately-owned property, and may cause the same to be trimmed
and charged the expense thereof to the occupant or owner of such property.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1)
§ 93.076  PERMISSION TO PLANT AND MAINTAIN.
   No person shall plant, spray, fertilize, preserve, prune, remove, cut above
ground, or otherwise disturb any tree on any street or municipal-owned property
without first receiving permission from the City Council. No tree shall be
placed so as, in the opinion of the City Council, to cause a traffic hazard. No
tree shall be planted where the clear space between the curb and the sidewalk
is less than three feet. No tree shall be planted where the soil is too poor to
ensure the growth of such tree unless the owner excavates a suitable hole of
not less than 36 cubic feet and replaces the material removed with suitable
loam, or soil stripped from pastureland. Where overhead power lines or other
obstructions are located in the public right-of-way and street trees are
desired, ornamental street trees may be used. Trees are not permitted within 35
feet of a corner intersection, as measured from the property corner.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2)
§ 93.077  INJURING TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure any tree, herb, or shrub
planted in any public place by physical means, use of herbicides, or any means
whatsoever, nor shall any person remove or cut down any tree, hedge, or shrub
in any such public place without first having secured a permit from the Mayor
to do so.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.078  GUIDEWIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach any wire or rope to any tree
in a public place without having a permit from the Mayor to do so.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-4)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.079  PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATION.
   Any person, company, or firm having the right to maintain wire, cables, and
poles in the public street and alleys and other public places, must keep the
before mentioned wire and cables and poles free from and away from any trees or
shrubs in such places so far as it may be possible, and shall keep all such
trees and shrubs trimmed away from said poles and wire subject to the
supervision of the Mayor; and in asking excavations in streets or other public
places for underground services or the repair thereof, said person, company, or
firm shall take proper care to avoid injury to the roots of any tree, hedge, or
shrub.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-5)
§ 93.080  APPEAL.
   Any person affected or grieved by any decision of the Mayor shall file a
petition before the City Council, which shall within two days either affirm or
modify the decision of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-6)
§ 93.081  TREES AND GRASS PLOTS.
   It shall be unlawful for persons owning or occupying lots or parcels of land
within the city to embellish the same by planting shade trees within the limits
of the street adjoining such premises; provided, that such shade trees are
planted between the sidewalk and the gutter; also to make and keep in order
lawns and grass plots between the sidewalk and curbing, and any person who
shall injure such trees or any of them, or any shade trees now growing within
the limits of any street, or any grass plot or lawn which may have been planted
or made in conformity with this section, or any shade tree, shrub, flower, or
plant growing in any private or public grounds within the city, or cause the
same to be injured by grading, breaking, tearing, cutting, picking, tying
animals thereto, or in any manner, shall be subject to the penalties in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-7)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.082  COTTONWOOD TREES.
   No female cottonwood trees are allowed within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-8)  Penalty, see §
93.999
USE OF STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
§ 93.095  OBSTRUCTION ON STREETS.
   No person shall place, leave, or keep on any public street, road, alley,
sidewalk, or other public ground in the city, any wagon, automobile, cart,
truck, sleigh, or other vehicle except when the same shall be in actual use;
nor shall any person place, leave, or keep on any public street, road, alley,
sidewalk, or other public ground of this city any other article, substance, or
material which may obstruct the free use of said street, road, alley, sidewalk,
or public ground, except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.096  MATERIALS IN STREETS, PERMITS.
   The Council is authorized to grant permission in writing to any person to
deposit and keep lumber, stone, brick, or other materials for building in any
public sidewalk, street, road, or alley adjacent to the building to be erected
or repaired, but such permission shall not excuse the obstruction or occupancy
with such materials of more than one-third in width of any carriage way of any
street or road.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2)
§ 93.097  CLEANING STREETS OR SIDEWALKS OF RUBBISH.
   Every person to whom permission may be granted, as provided in §
93.096, to keep and place building material in the street, road, or alley,
shall cause all such material and the rubbish resulting therefrom to be removed
from such sidewalk, street, road, or alley at the expiration of the time
limited in the permit, unless the time shall for good cause be extended by the
Council; and any person depositing and keeping any building material on such
sidewalk or in such street, road, or alley shall there remain, keep one or more
lighted lanterns or flares so placed that such material may be easily seen by
persons passing along such sidewalk, street, road, or alley.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3)
§ 93.098  EXCAVATION NEAR STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or occupant of any lot or parcel
of land within the city to make or cause to be made any excavation on said lot
or parcel of land, except the same be securely guarded so as to prevent the
injury of any person or persons or animals passing upon or along said
sidewalks, streets, or alleys, or public grounds or traveled path or roadway.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-4)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.099  BUILDING IN STREET.
   No person shall erect or maintain any building in such a position that the
same shall stand in whole or in part upon any public street, road, alley, or
sidewalk in said city, or so constructed that any part of the building proper
shall project into or over such street, road, alley, or sidewalk; provided that
jut windows, cornices, and other projections from the buildings above the first
story may extend over an adjoining street, road, alley, or sidewalk, not
exceeding 18 inches; and no person shall construct any step, area, or other
appurtenance to any building extending over or upon the sidewalk, nor shall any
person erect in any public street or road any flight of stairs or step leading
to any floor of any building.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-5)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.100  EAVE PIPES.
   No person shall place or maintain any pipe leading from the eaves of any
building or any part of any building in said city in such a position that the
water discharged from the roof of said building will flow upon or over any
public sidewalk in the said city.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-6)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.101  GARBAGE IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to throw or
deposit any ashes, offal, dirt, garbage, decaying vegetables, meat, fish,
manure, filthy water, slops or any other offensive or putrid material or thing
into or upon any street, avenue, land, alley, or public ground within the
corporate limits of the city or into any stream of water within the limits of
said city of forming the boundaries thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-7)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.102  ANIMALS AND VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall drive, ride, or lead any horse or mule or drive or lead any
cow or any other animal upon any public sidewalk in the city, or draw or propel
or cause to be drawn or propelled thereon any vehicle ordinarily drawn by
horses; or drive or operate, cause to be driven or operated, any motor vehicle
upon any sidewalk in said city, except that the same may be driven across any
sidewalk in entering or leaving the premises.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-8)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.103  USE OF STREETS FOR SALE OF VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall display for sale any vehicle or other personal property upon
any of the streets or avenues in the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-9)  Penalty, see §
93.999
EXCAVATION IN PUBLIC PLACES
§ 93.115  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make or cause to be made any excavation in or under any
street, parking, sidewalk, alley, or public ground, or remove any earth, soil,
paving, gravel, or material therefrom without having first obtained a permit
therefor as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-1)
§ 93.116  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for such permit shall be made to the Finance Officer. Such
application shall be accompanied by a fee of an amount set by the City Council
and on file at the office of the Finance Officer, which amount shall be
considered compensation to the city for the granting of such permit and the
necessary investigation prior thereto.
   (B)   Before any such permit is issued, the person requiring the same shall
state in this application therefor where such excavation is to be made, the
extent thereof, in front of what lot or lots, and for what purpose excavation
is to be made.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-2)
§ 93.117  SUPERVISION OF EXCAVATIONS.
   The City Foreman shall supervise all excavations made for any purpose in the
streets, alleys, or public ground and he or she shall require that all
excavations be backfilled in the manner specified.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-3)
§ 93.118  GUARDING EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person receiving a permit to make excavations in or upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or public ground shall, during the progress and continuance of
the work, erect and maintain around the same both by day and night suitable
guards, fences, flares, and signals so as to prevent injury to persons,
animals, or vehicles on account of such excavations. Such flares shall be kept
lighted from sundown until sunrise.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-4)
§ 93.119  REFILLING EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Any person making such excavation shall, when the same shall be
completed, promptly and without delay, refill the same as herein provided.
   (B)   In refilling any excavation, the earth shall be thoroughly settled as
the refilling progresses by using water to compact the earth; the earth shall
be thoroughly tamped in successive layers of approximately six inches, in such
a manner that all the earth shall be replaced in the excavation leaving the
surface in its original condition.
   (C)   In making connection to fire hydrants for flushing excavations, all
rules and regulations relating thereto shall be observed.
   (D)   In all cases where excavations are made in the paved district, the
earth shall be replaced in the manner above specified, and the pavement shall
be replaced by the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-5)
§ 93.120  CUTTING PAVEMENTS.
   Where it is necessary to cut the street pavement in making any street
excavation, an amount determined by multiplying the number of square yards of
pavement to be removed by the per square yard charged of an amount set by the
City Council and on file at the office of the Finance Officer. The amount will
be charged to the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-6)
§ 93.121  EXCAVATIONS NEAR STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or occupant of any lot to make
or cause to be made any excavation on said lot adjacent to any street, alley,
public ground, or traveled road, or roadway, except the same be securely
guarded so as to prevent the injury of any person or animal passing upon or
along the same.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-7)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.122  OPERATING IN SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful to make, cause to be made, or maintain any opening in
any sidewalk for the purpose of providing light for a basement or cellar or for
ventilating the same, unless such opening shall be guarded with a substantial
railing of iron not less than three feet high, or with a substantial iron
grating or other strong substantial cover, the grates of which shall not be
more than one inch apart. No railing or grate shall occupy more than two feet
of the sidewalk, measuring from the inner side thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-8)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.123  EXCAVATIONS UNDER SIDEWALKS.
   Any person having or erecting any building abutting upon any street, avenue,
or alley in the city, may excavate under the sidewalk to the curb for any
purpose of constructing a cellar or basement under the sidewalk in front of or
adjoining said building; provided, that said excavation shall be surrounded
upon the outer side and ends thereof with a substantial wall, to be approved by
the Building Committee, sufficient to maintain the said sidewalk. The plan of
said sidewalk shall be approved by the Building Committee; and provided
further, the permission to make such excavations and to construct such sidewalk
shall be first obtained from the Finance Officer. The excavation shall be
securely guarded by barricades at all times and one or more lighted lanterns in
the nighttime, so long as the same shall remain open.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-9)
§ 93.124  CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   No person shall construct or cause to be constructed or installed in,
on, or along side any city street a curb and gutter without first obtaining a
permit to do so from the City Finance Officer.
   (B)   A permit may be granted only if the following specifications shall be
met.
      (1)   The curb and gutter shall be concrete (the form to be approved by
the City Foreman) with a minimum compressive strength of 4,000 PSI, 24 inches
in width and depth of six inches for the gutter section, with a minimum gravel
cushion of four inches under the curb and gutter with expansion joints every 20
feet with expansion filler.
      (2)   No curb and gutter can be installed unless one continuous curb and
gutter is installed at the same time from the corner of a corner lot to the
corner of the opposite corner lot with a continuation of the curb and gutter
around each corner lot with concrete fillets on each corner adjacent to the
intersection of each street involved, which corner intersection shall have
handicap accessible ramps whether or not there are interesting sidewalks
adjacent to the curb and gutter.
      (3)   Before installation of the curb and gutter, the involved property
owners must have the curb and gutter line surveyed and staked to ensure proper
slope of the curb and gutter in relationship to the appropriate storm drains on
the intersecting streets, the grade of the street, and present or future
sidewalks.
      (4)   All labor and materials shall be the sole responsibility of the
individual land owners affected by the installed curb and gutter.
      (5)   The city assumes no liability or responsibility for or from the
curb and gutter installation. The land owners involved shall accept full
responsibility and liability for and from the installation of the curb and
gutter.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-10)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
93.001 to
93.011 shall be deemed guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. Each day such violation
is committed or is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense
and shall be punished as such hereunder. A fine will be imposed and is on file
in the finance office.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-12)
   (C)   Any person who fails to remove such snow, as provided for in §§
93.060 to
93.063, shall be subject to the penalties in §§
93.060 to
93.063, and, in addition thereto, shall be liable to the municipality for any
damage caused by the neglect to keep such sidewalk clear and free of snow and
ice as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-5)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Adoption of International Fire Code
   
94.001   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
94.002   Enforcement
   
94.003   Definitions
   
94.004   Modifications
   
94.005   Appeals
Care of Firefighting Equipment
   
94.020   Hindering firefighters and injuring fire apparatus
   
94.021   Driving over hose
   
94.022   Injuring to apparatus
   
94.023   Taking apparatus without leave
Fire Regulations
   
94.035   Duties of the Chief
   
94.036   Destroying buildings in case of fire
   
94.037   Resisting officer at fire
   
94.038   Meddling with hydrants
   
94.039   Charges for extraordinary circumstances
Hazardous Materials and Petroleum Products
   
94.050   Definitions
   
94.051   Districts which allow storage of petroleum products and hazardous
materials
   
94.052   Reports of spills
   
94.053   Registration of petroleum storage tanks
   
94.054   Registration of hazardous materials storage tanks; contingency plans
   
94.055   Right of entry
   
94.056   Conflict
   
94.057   Appeals
Fireworks, Firearms, and Explosions
   
94.070   Discharge of firearms or air rifles
   
94.071   Selling, processing, or discharging fireworks prohibited
 
   
94.999   Penalty
ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
§ 94.001  ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the 2018 International Fire Code,
regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and
explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling, and use of hazardous
substances, materials, and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or
property in the occupancy of buildings and premises in the city; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees thereof save and except such
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended. A copy of the code
is on file in the office of the Finance Officer of the city, and the same is
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and
from the date on which this section shall take effect (May 12, 2014), the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised: § 101.1 insert: City of
Webster; § 109.4 insert: $200, 30 days; § 111.4 insert: $25 and $200,
respectively.
   (C)   That nothing in this legislation or in the Fire Code hereby adopted
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or
any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action
acquired or existing, under any act, nor shall any just or legal right or
remedy of any character be lost, impaired, or affected by this legislation.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 94.002  ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 94.003  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Volunteer Fire Department as established and operated
as the Webster Fire Department, Inc., a non-profit corporation. Firefighters or
their officers are not employees or agents of the city. The Chief of the
Department shall be elected and approved by the bylaws of the corporation and
shall carry out the duties ascribed to him or her in those bylaws as well as
the duties listed in the city codes and ordinances.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Webster.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 94.004  MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the code hereby adopted upon application in writing by the owner
or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the
spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial
justice done. The particulars of such modification, when granted or allowed,
and the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department thereon, shall be entered
upon the records of the Department and a signed copy shall be furnished the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4)
§ 94.005  APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a license or permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the code do not apply or that the intent and true meaning of the
code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal
from the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the City Council
within 30 days from the date of the decision of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-5)
CARE OF FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT
§ 94.020  HINDERING FIREFIGHTERS AND INJURING FIRE APPARATUS.
   Any person who shall willfully hinder or delay any officer or firefighter in
the performance of his or her duties or shall willfully injure, deface, or
interfere with any fire apparatus shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to
the penalties established in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.021  DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   Any person who shall drive any vehicle over any unprotected fire hose when
laid on a street or alley to be used at any fire, or during alarm of fire, or
while at practice without the consent of the Chief or such other person as may
be in command, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalties
established in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.022  INJURING TO APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without permission of the Chief of the
Fire Department to drive any wagon, cart, or other vehicle across any fire hose
belonging to the city, or to destroy or otherwise damage any fire apparatus or
equipment.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.023  TAKING APPARATUS WITHOUT LEAVE.
   No fire apparatus or equipment shall at any time upon any pretext be taken,
used, or removed without permission of the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4)  Penalty, see §
94.999
FIRE REGULATIONS
§ 94.035  DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have direct supervision and control
of all fire apparatus and equipment owned and maintained by the city for fire
extinguishment or prevention, or for the public safety; and he or she shall
have sole and absolute control over all persons and property connected with
said Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 94.036  DESTROYING BUILDINGS IN CASE OF FIRE.
   The Chief of the Fire Department may direct that any building or structure
may be pulled or cut down or removed, or he or she may take such other steps as
he or she may deem necessary to arrest the progress of any fire.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 94.037  RESISTING OFFICER AT FIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or resist any officer or
member of the Fire Department or any police officer in the discharge of his or
her duties at any fire, or to conduct himself or herself in a disorderly or
noisy manner at any fire, or without reasonable excuse to refuse to obey any
lawful order of the Chief of Police or Chief of the Fire Department in any
manner relating to the extinguishment of any fire.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.038  MEDDLING WITH HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to meddle or interfere with any hydrant
except by permission of the Chief of Police, Chief of the Fire Department, or
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.039  CHARGES FOR EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES.
   The city shall set the following rates for extraordinary services rendered
by the city Fire Department when fighting fires within the city area. When the
city Fire Department has responded to a fire and completed its firefighting
task to contain said fire, and when the public is no longer endangered, and the
owners of the property subject to the fire have requested the Fire Department
to remain on the scene, then it shall charge for these services $175 per truck
per hour required to stay at the scene of the fire.
(Ord. 367, passed 6-6-1994)
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
§ 94.050  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance or material in quantity or form which may
be harmful or injurious to humans, domestic animals, wildlife, economic crops
and vegetation, or property.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL SPILL. Any release of a hazardous material or petroleum
products in the environment whenever it shall pose an unreasonable risk to
health, safety, or environment.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCT. Liquid petroleum fuels or lubricants.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
§ 94.051  DISTRICTS WHICH ALLOW STORAGE OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS AND HAZARDOUS
MATERIALS.
   Bulk storage of petroleum products in tanks of over 1,000-gallon capacity
held for resale purposes and within which hazardous materials are kept but
beyond which such storage of petroleum products and hazardous materials are
prohibited shall be limited to only those properties approved by the City
Council and listed in the office of the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2)
§ 94.052  REPORTS OF SPILLS.
   (A)   Petroleum products and hazardous materials shall be handled,
transported, and stored in a safe manner.
   (B)   Any person in control of a hazardous material or petroleum product
which is spilled shall immediately report the spill and all conditions or
circumstances relevant thereto to the Chief of Police or Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (C)   If the person in control of the hazard material or petroleum product
is not immediately available or able to report the spill, then the person who
either caused or is primarily involved in the spill shall report. This report
requirement shall be in addition to any other federal or state report
requirement.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3)
§ 94.053  REGISTRATION OF PETROLEUM STORAGE TANKS.
   All stationary containers or tanks located within the city, or any storage
facility actually used or intended to be used for the storage of any petroleum
product shall be registered by filing with the city all necessary information;
provided, however, that only the following shall be exempt from this
registration requirement:
   (A)   All containers, tanks, or buildings already registered pursuant to the
federal “UST” program;
   (B)   All containers and tanks for the storage of petroleum products which
are less than 350 gallons in size unless the product is gasoline, which
container or tank can not exceed 55 gallons in size; and
   (C)   All containers and tanks for the storage of petroleum products which
are less than 1,000 gallons in size, where the container or tank is located on
land zoned for agriculture and where the purpose of the storage is intended to
be the noncommercial use of the product by the owner of the tank.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4)
§ 94.054  REGISTRATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS STORAGE TANKS; CONTINGENCY PLANS.
   (A)   All stationary containers or tanks located within the city, or any
storage facility actually used or intended to be used for the storage of any
hazardous material shall be registered. Such registration shall be accomplished
by filing a contingency plan at the office of the Finance Officer to be
approved by the City Council for cleaning up and containing an accidental
discharge. Proof of insurance coverage for damages and clean up of an
accidental discharge must be submitted to the City Council as part of the
contingency plan.
   (B)   Only the following shall be exempt from this registration requirement:
      (1)   All containers, tank, and storage facilities located on land zoned
as residential; or
      (2)   All containers, tanks, and storage facilities located on land zoned
as agricultural as long as the volume of the storage is less than 60 gallons
liquid or 500 pounds solid weight.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5)
§ 94.055  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the City Council or an authorized
representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any
building or upon any premises, any condition which is prohibited under this
chapter, the city’s authorized representative may enter such building or
premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or perform any duty
imposed upon the city by this chapter; providing that if such building or
premises be occupied, he or she shall first present proper credentials and
demand entry; and if such building or premises be unoccupied, he or she shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
charge or control of the building or premises and demand entry. If such entry
is refused, the authorized representative shall have recourse to every remedy
provided by law to secure entry.
   (B)   No owner or occupant or any other person having charge or care of any
building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper demand made as herein
provided, to properly permit entry therein by an authorized representative of
the city for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6)
§ 94.056  CONFLICT.
   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
state and federal law, state and federal law shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7)
§ 94.057  APPEALS.
   Decisions made in enforcement of this chapter may be appealed to the City
Council, which may grant a variance upon an application which demonstrates that
an equivalent degree of environmental protection will be achieved under
alternatives submitted by said applicant.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8)
FIREWORKS, FIREARMS, AND EXPLOSIONS
§ 94.070  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR AIR RIFLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a police officer in the
performance of an official act, to discharge or fire any gun, air rifle, sling
shot, or other dangerous weapon within the city limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.071  SELLING, PROCESSING, OR DISCHARGING FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell to any person in the city
or within one mile of the outer boundaries of the same, any firecrackers,
cartridges, Roman candles, rockets, or other fireworks that may be made or
manufactured.
   (B)   No person shall, in the city or within one mile of the outer
boundaries of the same, discharge or shoot off any fireworks or firecrackers of
any kind or light or throw any fireworks of any kind.
   (C)   Public display of fireworks are permitted at any time, provided that
any individual, firm, partnership, or corporation has received permission from
the City Council prior to making such public display of fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.999  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to fine and or imprisonment as set in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3)
CHAPTER 95: CEMETERY
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Lots
   
95.03   Lot transfers or assignments require consent
   
95.04   For sale signs not permitted
   
95.05   Access to the grounds
   
95.06   Lot enclosures prohibited
   
95.07   Memorials
   
95.08   Lots are under the control of the officers of the cemetery
   
95.09   Offensive or improper monument, effigy, enclosure, or structure
   
95.10   No metallic urns or monuments
   
95.11   Plantings
   
95.12   Casket containers
   
95.13   Flowers and wreaths
   
95.14   Cemetery authorities may alter avenues or walks
   
95.15   Sprinklers
   
95.16   Grave opening and closing
   
95.17   Burial of cremains
§ 95.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOUNDATIONS. All foundations for monuments shall be made of cement, sand,
and rock, to a depth of not less than one-foot, with a five-inch projection
beyond the base of the monument.
   MARKERS. Markers to be used at the head or foot of graves shall not be
larger than two feet-long, one-foot wide, and must not exceed grass level upon
setting. All placing and construction of MARKERS shall be subject to approval
in the same manner as above specified for monuments. So called DOUBLE SLANTING
MARKERS shall be classified as monuments and shall be placed at the head of the
grave. No single slanting markers shall be allowed, except in case of matching
markers already in place on lots.
   MONUMENT. Any stone exceeding two feet by one foot in size, and which is
designed to extend more than eight-inches above the ground, shall be considered
a monument for the purposes of this chapter. All MONUMENTS to be erected must
first be approved by the chairperson of the committee as to size, location on
lot, foundations, and kind of stone to be used; provided, however, that such
right of approval may be delegated by such committee chairperson to the
custodian if he or she wishes.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-1)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.02  LOTS.
   All lots shall be subject to the laws of the state, relating to cemeteries,
and shall not be used for any purpose than as a place for burial of the dead.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-2)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.03  LOT TRANSFERS OR ASSIGNMENTS REQUIRE CONSENT.
   Lot owners shall not allow interments to be made in their lots for
remuneration; nor shall any transfer or assignment of the use of any lot or any
interest therein be valid without the consent in writing of the directors of
the city cemetery first hand and endorsed upon such transfer or assignment.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-3)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.04  FOR SALE SIGNS NOT PERMITTED.
   No sign indicating that a lot, vault, or tomb is for sale will be permitted
in the cemetery grounds.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-4)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.05  ACCESS TO THE GROUNDS.
   The owners of lots and their families will be allowed access to the grounds
at all times upon observing the rules which are, or may be adopted, for the
regulation of visitors.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-5)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.06  LOT ENCLOSURES PROHIBITED.
   Lot enclosures of any kind whatsoever are prohibited. All lots shall be
sodded or seeded, mowed, and maintained by the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-6)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.07  MEMORIALS.
   The owner of each lot shall have the right to erect any proper memorial of
granite, marble, or bronze, but such memorial must abide by the rules
pertaining to monuments, foundations, and markers.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-7)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.08  LOTS ARE UNDER THE CONTROL OF THE OFFICERS OF THE CEMETERY.
   All lots conveyed shall continue under the control of the officers of the
cemetery, so far as to secure uniformity in the use, care, and management
thereof to the general purposes and rules of the cemetery under their
supervision.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-8)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.09  OFFENSIVE OR IMPROPER MONUMENT, EFFIGY, ENCLOSURE, OR STRUCTURE.
   If any monument, effigy, or enclosure, or any structure whatsoever, or any
inscription be placed in or upon any lot, which shall be determined by the
cemetery authorities to be offensive or improper to the appearance of the
surrounding lot or grounds, they shall have the right, and it shall be their
duty, to enter upon such lot and remove the said offensive and improver object.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-9)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.10  NO METALLIC URNS OR MONUMENTS.
   No metallic urn, monuments, or anything of any shape in metal will be
allowed upon lots in the cemetery, except bronze.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-10)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.11  PLANTINGS.
   All plantings in cemetery, having special reference to shrubbery, trees, and
plants, shall be strictly controlled by cemetery custodian. No individual may
place on any lot any of the above referenced plantings. All plantings shall be
made by the city in prescribed areas so as to ensure proper maintenance and
upkeep, and keeping with cemetery beautification programs. Metal vases will be
allowed to be placed in front of markers and monuments, and of the commercial
type that can be set flush with the ground, and remain flush when not in use.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-11)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.12  CASKET CONTAINERS.
   Casket containers must be reinforced fiberglass, concrete, marble, granite,
or steel construction.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-12)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.13  FLOWERS AND WREATHS.
   Artificial flowers and wreaths will be permitted in the cemetery, but may be
removed by cemetery custodian when their appearance becomes shoddy and not in
keeping with cemetery beautification. Real flowers will be removed when they
become wilted.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-13)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.14  CEMETERY AUTHORITIES MAY ALTER AVENUES OR WALKS.
   The cemetery authorities may, from time to time, lay out or alter the
avenues or walks or make such rules and regulations for the government of the
grounds as they deem requisite and proper to secure and promote the general
objects of the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-14)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.15  SPRINKLERS.
   There is a ban on use of sprinklers at the cemetery for watering. Soaker
hoses may be used or any other method that will not affect any of the
surrounding areas.
(Prior Code, § 6-14-15)  (Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.16  GRAVE OPENING AND CLOSING.
   Only the cemetery caretaker may open a grave in the cemetery. All interments
and disinterments shall be done under the supervision of the cemetery caretaker
and in conformance with all applicable health laws. All graves must be closed
immediately following the burial ritual. The cemetery caretaker will close all
graves. A lot preparation fee at an amount established by resolution by the
governing body of the city shall be charged when a grave is opened for a burial
or disinterment.
(Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 95.17  BURIAL OF CREMAINS.
   Cremains need to be buried at least 12 inches (with a recommendation of 18
inches) down from the top of the cremation container which is impervious to the
soil and animal intrusions. The cemetery caretaker shall first mark out the
boundary lines of said burial before digging commences. Only the cemetery
caretaker will dig the area for the cremains. The family can place the cremains
in the area prepared. Either the family or the cemetery caretaker can cover the
buried cremains with the soil that was removed. A lot preparation fee at an
amount established by resolution by the government body of the city shall be
charged when a grave is opened for a burial or disinterment.
(Ord. 525, passed 12-28-2020)
CHAPTER 96: CITY PARKS AND SERVICES
Section
Webster Forest Community
   
96.01   Dutch Elm Disease nuisance
   
96.02   Inspection
   
96.03   Removal of nuisances
   
96.04   Assessment of cost of removal and spraying
   
96.05   Public notice of removal action
   
96.06   Cottonwood trees
Public Library
   
96.20   Operation of library
 
   
96.99   Penalty
WEBSTER FOREST COMMUNITY
§ 96.01  DUTCH ELM DISEASE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any living or standing elm tree or part of tree affected with Dutch
Elm Disease fungus, Ceratocystis Ulmi, or which harbor the European Bark
Beetle, Scolytus Multitriatus (Eichb.) and/or the American Elm Bark Beetle,
Hylurgopinus Rufipes (Marsh.) is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof including logs, branches, stumps,
firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned, or treated with an effective elm bark beetle destroying insecticide is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-1)
§ 96.02  INSPECTION.
   The City Forester or State Forester shall inspect or cause to be inspected
all premises and places within the city at least once each year to determine
whether any public nuisance exists thereon, and shall also inspect or cause to
be inspected any elm tree reported or suspected to be infected with Dutch Elm
Disease or any elm bark reported or suspected to be infested with either
species of the above named bark beetles.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-2)
§ 96.03  REMOVAL OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   If the City Forester shall determine upon inspection or examination
that any public nuisance as herein defined exists in or upon a public street,
alley, park, or public place, including the terrace strip between the curb and
lot line, within the city, said officer shall immediately cause it to be
removed and burned or otherwise abate the same.
   (B)   If upon inspection or examination it shall be determined with
reasonable certainty that any public nuisance as herein defined exists in or
upon private premises within the city, written notice shall be served upon the
owner of such property, if he or she can be found, or upon the occupant
thereof, to remove such nuisance within specified days of service of said
notice. If said owner or occupant does not remove said nuisances within the
time specified in such notice, the City Council shall cause it to be removed
and burned or otherwise abate the same. No damage shall be awarded to the owner
for destruction of any elm tree, elm wood, or any part thereof pursuant to this
section. The tree is presumed to be diseased and subject to removal unless said
owner or occupant has shown that the tree is not so diseased by sending in
specimens to the plant Pathology Department, SDSU, Brookings, and received a
negative report thereon.
   (C)   All removals shall be made in such manner as to destroy or prevent as
fully as possible the spread of Dutch Elm Disease or the insect pest or vectors
known to carry such disease fungus.
   (D)   Whenever it is determined that any elm tree or any part thereof is
infected with Dutch Elm Disease fungus, the City Council may cause to be
treated all trees located on public property within a 1,000- to 1,500-foot
radius thereof with an effective elm bark beetle destroying insecticide.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-3)
§ 96.04  ASSESSMENT OF COST OF REMOVAL AND SPRAYING.
   The entire cost of any removal of a public nuisance as herein defined on any
public street, alley, park, or other public place including the terrace strip
between curb and lot line shall be borne by the city. The cost of removing elm
trees infected with the Dutch Elm fungus on private property shall be borne by
the property owner. If said owner fails to remove such nuisance by the removal
of said tree or trees within the specified day notice period, said tree or
trees shall be removed by the city and the cost of said removal either assessed
against the property or recovered in a civil action against the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-4)
§ 96.05  PUBLIC NOTICE OF REMOVAL ACTION.
   In order to facilitate the work and minimize the inconvenience to the public
of any treating operation conducted under this chapter, the City Council shall
cause to be given advance public notice of such operation by publication in the
local newspaper and by other effective means. It shall also cause the posting
of appropriate warning notices in the area and along the streets which are to
be treated at least 24 hours in advance of treating. When any residue or
concentrate from the municipal treating operations can be expected to be
deposited on any public street, the City Council shall notify the Chief of
Police who shall take all necessary steps to make and enforce temporary parking
and traffic regulations on such streets as conditions require. Temporary “no
parking” notices shall be posted in each block of any affected street at least
24 hours in advance of treating operations.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-5)
§ 96.06  COTTONWOOD TREES.
   No female cottonwood trees other than existing trees shall be permitted
within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-11-8)
PUBLIC LIBRARY
§ 96.20  OPERATION OF LIBRARY.
   The public library, previously established, shall be operated in accordance
with the laws of the state, existing contracts, these ordinances, and any other
rules and regulations adopted by the Library Board and be referred to as city
public library.
(Ord. 343, passed 11-6-1989)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Except in cases where a different or additional penalty is imposed by
§§
96.01 to
96.06 or by some existing provision of law, every violation of any of the
provisions of §§
96.01 to
96.06 shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $100 or by imprisonment for a
period not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   (1)   Violation of lending privileges. Every person who shall take
from the city public library any book, pamphlet, periodical, paper, painting,
tape, film, or other property, except in accordance with the rules of such
library, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100.
      (2)   Neglecting to return books and the like. Every person who shall
take or borrow from the city public library any book, pamphlet, periodical,
paper, painting, tape, film, or other property and neglect to return the same
within two weeks from the date of mailing of third notice to his or her home
address advising that the property has been overdue for a period of two or more
weeks shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100.
      (3)   Defacing library property. Every person who shall intentionally
cut, mutilate, mark, tear, write upon, deface, or otherwise destroy or injure
in whole or in part any book, pamphlet, periodical, paper, painting, tape,
film, or other property belonging to the city public library, or who shall
knowingly suffer any such injury to be inflicted while such property is in his
or her custody, or shall willfully or wantonly mark or deface or in any way
injure the city public library or any part thereof, or any fixture therein or
appertaining thereto, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 provided, however, that
neither the foregoing provisions nor their implementation shall be a bar to any
action by the city public library for damages, restitution, or special remedies
as against one who is in violation of said provisions.
(SDCL 9-19-3)  (Prior Code, § 6-11-6)  (Ord. 343, passed 11-6-1989)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOL
      
111.   JUNKYARDS AND SOLID WASTE BUSINESSES
      
112.   SPECIFIC BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
113.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOL
Section
   
110.01   Limitation of licenses
   
110.02   Restrictions
   
110.03   Application and license fees
   
110.04   Location of business
   
110.05   Hours of business
   
110.06   Sanitation facilities
   
110.07   Alcohol beyond premises
   
110.08   Sale or gift to minors
   
110.09   Establishment of municipal liquor store
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  LIMITATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The city will not hold the only license for the sale of intoxicating
liquors on- or off-sale liquor licenses within the municipality,
notwithstanding the maximum number of liquor licenses as allowable by SDCL 35-
4-10 and 35-4-11, the number of licenses available in the city are as follows:
      (1)   On-sale liquor: five; and
      (2)   Off-sale liquor: one.
   (B)   It is hereby determined that this chapter is necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health, and safety, and support of
the municipal government and its existing institutions and shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and publications according to law.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, keep for sale, exchange,
distill, manufacture, produce, bottle, blend, or otherwise concoct, within the
city, any alcoholic beverages as defined by statute, without having a license
as required by state law.
(SDCL 9-29-7)  (Ord. 520, passed 4-6-2020)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  RESTRICTIONS.
   Licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages or malt beverages in the city
shall be submitted as prescribed by state law, as amended. The number of
licenses approved by the City Council will not exceed the limits set by SDCL
35-4-10 and 35-4-11.
(Ord. 520, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 110.03  APPLICATION AND LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   In any instances in which applications may qualify, applications for
licenses for the sale of wine and malt beverages and temporary licenses in the
city shall be submitted as prescribed by state law.
(SDCL 35-2)
   (B)   An on-sale/off-sale malt beverage licensee or an on-sale liquor
licensee may obtain a special permit from the city extending its hours of
operation for a special event; provided, however, that said licensee makes
application for a special permit to the City Finance Officer prior to the event
and pays the required fee for the special permit at the time of approval of
application. The city is to be given ample notice as a public hearing is
required for a special permit.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TEMPORARY LICENSES. Includes:
         (a)   A special malt beverage retailers license in conjunction with a
special event to any civic, charitable, educational, fraternal, or veterans
organization or any licensee licensed as an on-sale liquor licensee or on- and
off-sale malt beverage licensee;
         (b)   A special on-sale wine retailers license in conjunction with a
special event to any civic, charitable, educational, fraternal, or veterans
organization or any licensee licensed as an on-sale liquor licensee or on- and
off-sale wine licensee or a farm winery licensee;
         (c)   A special on-sale liquor license in conjunction with a special
event to any civic, charitable, educational, fraternal, or veterans
organization or any licensee licensed as an on-sale liquor licensee; and
         (d)   A special off-sale package wine dealers license in conjunction
with a special event to any civic, charitable, educational, fraternal, or
veterans organization or any licensee licensed as an off- sale liquor licensee,
on- and off-sale wine licensee, package off-sale malt beverage/farm winery
licensee, or a farm winery holding an off-sale package wine license. This
temporary license is limited to selling wine produced by a state farm winery.
   (D)   Temporary licenses can be issued for no more than 15 consecutive days.
   (E)   The city is required to set a public hearing on temporary licenses
unless the entity applying for the license holds an on-sale liquor license or
malt beverage license and the temporary license will be used in a publicly-
owned facility, then just Council approval is needed.
   (F)   The city limits the number of temporary licenses to three that may be
issued to any licensee or organization within a calendar year.
(Ord. 520, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 110.04  LOCATION OF BUSINESS.
   The City Council shall not issue any licenses to any person(s), business, or
group where the location of such a business would not be considered desirable
in accordance with state law and local regulations.
(SDCL 35-2-6.1; 35-2-6.2)  (Ord. 520, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 110.05  HOURS OF BUSINESS.
   No person or business operating with an on- and off-sale liquor operating
agreement, on- and off-sale wine and malt beverage license, including retailer
and package dealers, restaurant license, or special events/temporary alcohol
license may sell, serve, or allow to be consumed any alcoholic beverage between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(SDCL 35-4-81; 35-4-81.2)  (Ord. 520, passed 4-6-2020)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  SANITATION FACILITIES.
   Every on-sale business shall maintain upon his or her licensed premises,
toilets properly connected with the city sewer system with separate facilities
for men and women. In each such facility there shall be maintained running
water and towels for use by the users of such facilities, or approved sanitary
drying facilities. Every licensee shall have such facilities equipped and
maintained so as to pass state and/or local health requirements at all times.
(SDCL 34-18-22)  (Ord. 520, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 110.07  ALCOHOL BEYOND PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee who is authorized by law to sell
alcoholic beverages within the city to allow any person to take beyond the
enclosed premises so licensed any unsealed can, bottle, glass, pitcher,
container, or package of any kind containing alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 520, passed 4-6-2020)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08  SALE OR GIFT TO MINORS.
   No person shall sell or give any alcoholic beverages to any person under the
age of 21 years.
(Ord. 520, passed 4-6-2020)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09  ESTABLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORE.
   The governing body of the city is empowered to establish a municipal liquor
store at local option under the guidelines set forth in SDCL Title 35, Chapter
3.
(Ord. 520, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or licensee in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day, after notice, that
such person, firm, or licensee fails to correct any violation shall constitute
an additional separate offense. Whenever any person acting as clerk, servant,
agent, or employee of any other person or establishment has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter, that person shall also be deemed guilty as a
principal. Failure to comply with all existing requirements, including the
provisions in this chapter, shall provide cause for revocation of any license
granted under the provisions of state law.
(SDCL 35-2-10)  (Ord. 520, passed 4-6-2020)
CHAPTER 111: JUNKYARDS AND SOLID WASTE BUSINESSES
Section
Junkyard and Wrecking Control
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Revocation of license
   
111.04   Daily record of purchases
   
111.05   Junkyard to be fenced
   
111.06   One day storage
   
111.07   Purchasing junk from minors
Operation of Solid Waste Businesses
   
111.20   Definitions
   
111.21   Licenses
   
111.22   Routes, pickup, and provision of containers
   
111.23   Garbage fees
   
111.24   Routes
   
111.25   Landfill fees
   
111.26   Rules and regulations
   
111.27   Equipment
   
111.28   Liability insurance
 
   
111.99   Penalty
JUNKYARD AND WRECKING CONTROL
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person, persons, firm, or corporation engaged in operation
of a junkyard.
   JUNKYARD. Any business for the sale, purchase, or storage of salvage
material, goods, wares, or merchandise and secondhand goods, including motor
vehicles and accessories for motor vehicles or a salvage or wrecking yard or
store.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in business as a junk dealer or operate a junkyard
within the city or within one mile thereof without first having secured a
license.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council shall have the right to revoke any license granted under
this chapter if it determines upon investigation and after notice and public
hearing that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter,
provided that notice of the hearing shall be served upon the licensee named in
the license at least five days before the hearing, either by personal service
of a copy of the notice or by mailing a copy of the same to the person at the
address given in the application. Should any license granted under this chapter
be revoked, no refund of the license fee shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3)
§ 111.04  DAILY RECORD OF PURCHASES.
   Every junk dealer shall keep a daily written record of all articles and
quantities purchased by him or her setting forth the name, residence, age, and
occupation of the person from whom each article or articles were purchased and
the name of the employer of such person, the date and hour the purchase was
made, the price paid, and such other information as the Chief of Police with
the approval of the City Council shall require. Such record shall at all times
be opened for the inspection of police officers or any officer of the law to
make investigation and also for securing evidence in connection with any
violation of law.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4)
§ 111.05  JUNKYARD TO BE FENCED.
   If located inside or outside the city limits and within one mile thereof,
the entire business including buying, selling, and storing must be conducted
within a fence obstructing view of the junkyard at least ten feet high, and
said business and fence must be located at least 30 feet from any public
highway leading into the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5)
§ 111.06  ONE DAY STORAGE.
   No goods, material, wares, merchandise, motor vehicles, or accessories for
motor vehicles or any salvage goods, wares, merchandise, or materials,
including used electrical and/or gas appliances of all descriptions, shall be
kept, stored, or placed for a longer period than one day outside of such
building or fence.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07  PURCHASING JUNK FROM MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation to
purchase or receive from any person under the age of 18 years any article,
goods, or things commonly known and classed as junk; any bottle, pipe, or pipe
fittings; lead, iron, or brass; tools or implements; or any goods or wares of
secondhand character; or any rubber, overshoes, boots, or rubber goods of any
nature, either secondhand or new, without the written consent of such minor’s
parent or guardian, which writing shall be kept by such person or persons,
firm, or corporation and be subject to the inspection of any police officer of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-7)  Penalty, see §
111.99
OPERATION OF SOLID WASTE BUSINESSES
§ 111.20  DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of any terms used herein are intended to be consistent with
the terms defined in SDCL Chapters 34A-6 and 34A-11, as amended, and any
administrative rules and regulations adopted in accordance with those chapters
to the extent the terms used herein have been defined by state law. To the
extent consistent with state law, the following definitions will control.
   ASH. Residue from the combustion of solid waste or any solid or liquid
materials.
   BULKY ITEMS. Large items such as WHITE GOODS or furniture.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by stores, offices,
restaurants, warehouses, printing shops, service stations, and other non-
manufacturing, non-household sources.
   FACILITY. All facilities and appurtenances connected with a solid waste
facility or solid waste disposal facility, which are acquired, purchased,
constructed, reconstructed, equipped, improved, extended, maintained, or
operated to facilitate the disposal or storage of solid waste.
   GARBAGE. Solid and semi-solid putrescible animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparing, cooking, storing, serving, and
consuming of food or of material intended for use as food, and all offal,
excluding useful industrial by-products, from all public and private
establishments and from all residences.
   HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Solid waste derived from households, including single and
multiple residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew
quarters, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas, but not
waste from commercial activities that is generated, stored, or present in a
household.
   RUBBLE. Stone, brick, concrete, or similar inorganic material, excluding
ash, waste tires, and asbestos-containing waste materials.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other discarded
materials, including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, commercial, and agricultural, and from community
activities, but does not include mining waste in connection with a mine
permitted under SDCL Title 45, hazardous waste as defined under SDCL Chapter
34A-11, solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage, or dissolved materials
in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources
subject to permits under § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also
known as the Clean Water Act and being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 et seq., as amended,
or source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the Atomic
Energy Act of 1954, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq., as amended.
   WHITE GOODS. Discarded refrigerators, ranges, washers, water heaters, and
other similar domestic and commercial appliances.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-1)
§ 111.21  LICENSES.
   (A)   All solid waste businesses operating within the city shall be licensed
by the city at a rate of $250 per license per year, which license may be
revoked by the City Council at any time.
   (B)   Licenses shall be renewed each year on the anniversary date of their
approval.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-2)
§ 111.22  ROUTES, PICKUP, AND PROVISION OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Garbage, commercial solid waste, and household waste shall be picked
up at least once a week or more frequently when circumstances require. The
dates of pickup shall be at the discretion of the individual solid waste
business.
   (B)   The solid waste business shall determine and provide the appropriate
type and size of garbage container for each business and residence.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-3)
§ 111.23  GARBAGE FEES.
   (A)   Each solid waste business shall furnish a list to the city of those
persons and businesses with whom the solid waste business has contracted. The
maximum fee allowed to be charged by a solid waste business to a residence or
business shall be set from time to time by resolution of the city.
   (B)   Solid waste fees from the removal rubble, bulky items, trees, and
white goods shall be between the solid waste business and the person or
business for whom the service is provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-4)
§ 111.24  ROUTES.
   Each solid waste business shall have full discretion to determine whether to
pickup garbage, commercial solid waste, or household waste at the curb side or
alley.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-5)
§ 111.25  LANDFILL FEES.
   Solid waste businesses shall be responsible for paying all fees associated
with disposal of collected materials.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-6)
§ 111.26  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Each solid waste business shall be required to dispose of all collected
materials in accordance with all statutes and regulations of the county and of
the city, and other agencies.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-7)
§ 111.27  EQUIPMENT.
   Each solid waste business shall provide equipment capable of properly
collecting and disposing of garbage, commercial solid waste, rubble, bulky
items, household waste, trees, and parts thereof weighing less than 40 pounds,
and white goods in accordance with applicable ordinances, state statutes, or
regulations, and said equipment shall be maintained so as to keep it clean an
free of accumulation of offensive materials.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-8)
§ 111.28  LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Any licensee shall be required to carry $1,000,000 liability insurance
policy and provide the city with a certificate of insurance.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-10)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §§
111.01 to
111.07 shall be fined according to the penalties described in §§
111.01 to
111.07. Every day of such violation shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-8)
   (C)   The penalty for violating §§
111.20 to
111.28 shall be a fine not exceeding $200 or by imprisonment not exceeding a
maximum of 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 6-7-9)
CHAPTER 112: SPECIFIC BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
Meat and Slaughter Houses
   
112.01   Permit
   
112.02   Offensive and unwholesome material on premises
   
112.03   Inspections
   
112.04   Destroying spoiled meats and the like
   
112.05   Supervision by Board of Health
Carnivals and Circuses
   
112.20   Contracts
Going Out of Business/Removal Sales
   
112.35   Definitions
   
112.36   Application of regulations
   
112.37   Application requirements
   
112.38   Effect of license
   
112.39   Duties of licensee
Licenses
   
112.55   License required
   
112.56   Application for license
   
112.57   License expiration
   
112.58   Revocation
   
112.59   Issuance of license
   
112.60   Record of licenses
   
112.61   Approval of bonds
   
112.62   Appeal
 
   
112.99   Penalty
MEAT AND SLAUGHTER HOUSES
§ 112.01  PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to carry on the
business of slaughtering animals or rendering of any animal matter, or
manufacturing the same into fertilizing materials by the use of heat or
otherwise, at any place in the city, and within one mile of the city limits
thereof except by permit of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02  OFFENSIVE AND UNWHOLESOME MATERIAL ON PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons, firm, or corporation engaged in the
business of slaughtering animals or packing them for market, or rendering of
any animal matter, or conducting a meat market within the city limits or within
one mile thereof, to permit or suffer to remain on the premises where such
business is carried on, any decaying meat, blood, bone, offal, filth, or other
animal matter so that the same shall become offensive and unwholesome and
endanger health or be a nuisance to the neighborhood. Such premises shall at
all times be kept in a clean and healthy and inoffensive condition. Any
violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine set in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03  INSPECTIONS.
   The Board of Health shall be permitted free entrance at all hours of the day
or night to all places used for any purpose specified in this title, and shall
have the right of free and unrestrained examination of such places and of the
machinery and utensils therein contained, and of the meat provisions therein
exposed for sale and the manner of conducting and operating such business. Any
person willfully hindering or obstructing such entrance or examination shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount set in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3)
§ 112.04  DESTROYING SPOILED MEATS AND THE LIKE.
   If, in the opinion of the city’s Board of Health, any meat provisions
exposed for sale in any market, shop, or other building in the city are
tainted, decayed, unwholesome, or dangerous to the public health, it shall be
the duty of the Board of Health to serve notice in writing upon the person
exposing for sale such meat provisions, requiring him or her to destroy the
same in such manner and within such time shall by such notice be prescribed,
and if the person so served neglects to conform to such notice, it shall be the
duty of the Board of Health to destroy such meat provisions at the expense of
the city, and report in writing to the City Council the amount of such expense,
and the name of the person exposing such meat provisions for sale; and
thereupon suit may be instituted in the name of the city against such person
for the recovery of expense incurred.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4)
§ 112.05  SUPERVISION BY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   All places or premises within the city or within one mile of the city limits
where any business enumerated in this subchapter is carried on, shall be
subject to supervision and inspection by the Board of Health, who shall have
the power to make, publish, and enforce such regulations respecting the
management of the same as it may deem necessary to the health or the physical
comfort of the inhabitants of the city, and any refusal or willful neglect on
the part of any person, owning or having charge of such building, premises, or
such business, to observe or comply with any regulations so made, shall render
such person so offending liable to a fine as set in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5)
CARNIVALS AND CIRCUSES
§ 112.20  CONTRACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons owning, managing, or
operating any circus, menageries, wild west shows, carnivals, or other
exhibition to exhibit in the city without first entering into a contract with
the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)  Penalty, see §
112.99
GOING OUT OF BUSINESS/REMOVAL SALES
§ 112.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Webster.
   FIRE AND OTHER ALTERED GOODS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to
reasonably cause the public to believe that the sale will offer goods damaged
or altered by fire, smoke, water, or other means.
   GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to
reasonably cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock of
goods on hand the business will cease and be discontinued, including, but not
limited to the following sales: adjuster’s; adjustment; alteration; assignee’s;
bankrupt; benefit of administrator’s; benefit of creditors’; benefit of
trustees; building coming down; closing; creditor’s committee; creditor’s; end;
executor’s; final days; forced out; forced out of business; insolvents’; last
days; lease expires; liquidation; loss of lease; mortgage sale; receiver’s;
trustee’s; quitting business.
   GOODS. Any goods, wares, merchandise, or other property capable of being the
object of a sale regulated hereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   REMOVAL OF BUSINESS SALE. A sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably
cause the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and
discontinue business at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods
on hand and will then move to and resume business at a new location in the city
or will then continue business from other existing locations in the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-1)
§ 112.36  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Provisions of supplement general licensing ordinance. The provisions
of this subchapter are intended to augment and be in addition to the provisions
of the general licensing ordinance of this city. Where this subchapter imposes
a greater restriction upon persons, premises, businesses, or practices than is
imposed by the general licensing ordinance of this city, this subchapter shall
control.
   (B)   Established business requisite. Any person who has not been the owner
of a business advertised or described in the application for a license
hereunder for a period of at least six months prior to the date of the proposed
sale shall not be granted a license.
   (C)   Exception for survivors of business persons. Upon the death of a
person doing business in this city, his or her heirs, devisees, or legatees
shall have the right to apply at any time for a license hereunder.
   (D)   Interval between sales. Any person who has held a sale, as regulated
hereunder, at the location stated in the application, within one year last past
from the date of such application shall not be granted a license.
   (E)   Restricted location. Where a person is applying for a license
hereunder operates more than one place of business, the license issued shall
apply only to the one store or branch specified in the application and no other
store or branch shall advertise or represent that it is cooperating with it, or
in any way participating in the licensed sale, nor shall the store or branch
conducting the licensed sale advertise or represent that any other store or
branch is cooperating with it or participating in any way in the licensed sale.
   (F)   Person exempted. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to or
affect the following persons:
      (1)   Persons acting pursuant to an order to process of a court of
complement jurisdiction;
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials; and
      (3)   Persons conducting a sale of the type regulated herein on the
effective date of this subchapter, unless such sale is continued for a period
of more than 30 days from and after such effective date, in which event, such
person, at the lapse of the said 30-day period, shall comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (G)   Publication. Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine, or other
publication, who published in good faith, any advertisement, without knowledge
of its false, deceptive, or misleading character, or without knowledge that the
provisions of this subchapter have not been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-3)
§ 112.37  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   A person desiring to conduct a sale regulated by this subchapter shall make
a written application to the City Council setting forth and containing the
following information:
   (A)   The true name and address of the owner of the goods to be the object
of the sale;
   (B)   A description of the place where such sale is to be held;
   (C)   The nature of the occupancy, whether by lease or sublease, and the
effective date of termination of such occupancy;
   (D)   The dates of the period of time in which the sale is to be conducted;
   (E)   A full and complete statement of the facts in regard to the sale,
including the reason for the urgent and expeditious disposal of goods thereby
and the manner in which the sale will be conducted;
   (F)   The means to be employed in advertising such sale together with the
proposed content of any advertisement;
   (G)   A complete and detailed inventory of the goods to be sold at such sale
as disclosed by the applicant’s records. Said inventory shall be attached to
and become part of the required application;
   (H)   All goods included in such inventory shall have been purchased by the
applicant for resale on bona fide orders without cancellation privileges and
shall not comprise goods purchased on consignment;
   (I)   Such inventory shall not include goods ordered in contemplation of
conducting a sale regulated hereunder. Any unusual purchase or additions to the
stock of goods of the business hereby affected within ten days before the
filing of an application hereunder shall be deemed to be of such character; and
   (J)   Any applicant for a license hereunder shall submit to the City Council
with his or her application a license fee of $50. Any applicant for a renewal
license hereunder shall submit to the City Council with his or her renewal
application a renewal license of $50.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-4)
§ 112.38  EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   A license shall be issued hereunder on the following terms.
   (A)   Licensing period. The license shall authorize the sale described in
the application for a period of not more than 60 consecutive days, Sundays and
legal holidays excluded, following the issuance thereof.
   (B)   Renewal procedure.
      (1)   The City Council shall renew a license for one period of time only,
such period to be in addition to the 60 days permitted in the original license
and not to exceed 60 consecutive days, Sundays and holidays excluded, when he
or she finds:
         (a)   That facts exist justifying the license renewal;
         (b)   That the licensee has filed an application for renewal; and
         (c)   That the licensee has submitted with the application for renewal
a revised inventory showing the items listed on the original inventory
remaining unsold and not listing any goods not included in the original
application and inventory.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B), any application for a
license under the provisions of this subchapter covering any goods previously
inventoried as required here under shall be deemed to be an application for
renewal, whether presented by the original applicant or by any other person.
   (C)   Nature of sale. The license shall authorize only the one type of sale
described in the application at the location named therein.
   (D)   Saleable goods. The license shall authorize only the sale of goods
described in the application at the location named therein.
   (E)   Surrender of general license. Upon being issued a license hereunder
for a going-out-of-business sale, the licensee shall surrender to the City
Council all other business licenses he or she may hold at that time applicable
to the location and goods covered by the application for a license under this
subchapter.
   (F)   Non-transferability. Any license herein provided for shall not be
assignable or transferable.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-5)
§ 112.39  DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   A licensee hereunder shall:
   (A)   Adhere to inventory. Make no additions whatsoever, during the period
of the licensed sale, to the stock of goods set forth in the inventory attached
to the application for license;
   (B)   Advertise properly. Refrain from employing any untrue, deceptive, or
misleading advertising;
   (C)   Adhere to advertising. Conduct the licensed sale in strict conformity
with any advertising or holding out incident thereto;
   (D)   Keep duplicate inventory. Keep available at the place of sale a
duplicate copy of the inventory submitted with the application and shall
present such duplicate to inspecting officials upon request; and
   (E)   Segregate non-inventoried goods. Keep any other goods separate and
apart from goods listed in the filed inventory as being objects of sale and
shall make such distinction clear to the public by placing tags on all
inventoried goods in and about the place of sale apprising the public of the
status of all such goods.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-6)
LICENSES
§ 112.55  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to engage
in any activity for which a license is required without first having obtained a
license, as hereinafter provided. The City Council may at any time expand the
general provisions of this chapter by requiring any person, persons, firm, or
corporation engaging in any trade, business, or occupation within the city
which is not specified by this subchapter to obtain a license, as deemed
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.56  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, persons, firm, or corporation wishing to obtain a license
as herein provided shall make written application to the City Council, stating
the name of the applicant, address, purpose of the activity, the length of time
for which said license is wanted, and the particular place at which said
license is to be used.
   (B)   Fees for all licenses shall be fixed by the City Council, where not
specified in this subchapter, and all license fees shall be paid in full at the
time of application in such manner as approved by said Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 112.57  LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   Any annual license granted under the provisions of this chapter shall expire
on December 31 next following the granting thereof, except as otherwise
provided, and shall not be granted for any sum less than the annual rate, and
there shall be no rebate made on the termination of said calling, vocation, or
kind of business for which said license was issued.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 112.58  REVOCATION.
   The City Council shall have the authority at any time to suspend or revoke
any license granted under the provision of this chapter whenever said Council
shall be satisfied, upon written complaint, that any such calling, vocation, or
kind of business for which said license has been issued, has been made or
conducted in an improper or illegal manner, and in case of such revocation, the
City Council may refund to the holder of such license such proportionate amount
of money paid therefor as said Council shall deem just.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 112.59  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise provided, all licenses shall be issued by the Finance
Officer after issuance of the license has been approved by the City Council and
the applicant shall have complied with all requirements for issuance of such
license. Unless otherwise provided, all licenses shall be signed by the Finance
Officer and shall have affixed thereto the official seal of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 112.60  RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The Finance Officer shall keep a record of all licenses issued by the city
stating when and to whom issued, for what purpose and for what length of time,
the amount of money paid for said license, and the place where such activity is
to be carried on.
(SDCL 9-34-1)  (Prior Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 112.61  APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   Any bond, liability insurance, or deposit required shall be subject to the
approval of the Finance Officer, and in case such Finance Officer deems the
security inadequate, new or additional security may be required; the license
may be suspended pending the furnishing of such new or additional security, and
if not furnished, the license may be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 112.62  APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the City Finance Officer or the Mayor
in the denial of an application for permit of license or revocation of a
license as provided in §
112.58, shall have the right of appeal to the City Council. Such appeal shall
be taken by filing with the City Council within 14 days after the notice of
action complained of has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. Service of
such appeal shall be grounds for the appeal. Service of such appeal shall be
made to the City Finance Officer. The City Council shall set a time and place
for a hearing of such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the
appellant. The decision and order of the Council on such appeal shall be final
and conclusive.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person exposing for sale in any market, house, or shop or
elsewhere in the city, any tainted or putrid meat provisions, which from this
or other causes, are unwholesome and dangerous to the public health, shall be
deemed guilty of a violation and shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a
fine in an amount set in §§
112.01 to
112.05.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
112.35 to
112.39 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100, provided that each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-7)
CHAPTER 113: TAXATION
Section
Sales and Service Tax
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Enactment of tax
   
113.03   Use tax
   
113.04   Collection
   
113.05   Interpretation
Bed, Board, and Booze Tax
   
113.20   Purpose
   
113.21   Enactment of tax
   
113.22   Collection
   
113.23   Interpretation
   
113.24   Use of revenue
 
   
113.99   Penalty
SALES AND SERVICE TAX
§ 113.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the municipality by imposing a municipal retail sales and use tax pursuant to
the powers granted to the municipality by the state, by SDCL Chapter 10-52
entitled Uniform Municipal Non-Ad Valorem Tax Law, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 434, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 113.02  ENACTMENT OF TAX.
   From and after January 1, 2006, there is hereby imposed as a municipal
retail sales and service tax upon the privilege of engaging in business a tax
measured by 2% on the gross receipts of all persons engaged in business within
the municipality, who are subject to the state’s retail occupational sales and
service tax, SDCL Chapter 10-45, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 434, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 113.03  USE TAX.
   In addition, there is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of use,
storage, and consumption within the jurisdiction of the same municipality of
tangible personal property or services purchased from and after January 1,
2006, at the same rate as the municipal sales and service tax upon all
transactions or use, storage, and consumption which are subject to the state’s
Use Tax, SDCL Chapter 10-46, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 434, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 113.04  COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL Chapter 10-52
and acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the state’s Department
of Revenue and regulation in accordance with the same rules and regulations
applicable to the state sales tax and under such additional rules and
regulations as the state’s Secretary of Revenue and Regulation shall lawfully
prescribe.
(Ord. 434, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 113.05  INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the state’s chapter on retail sales and service tax, SDCL
10-45 and acts amendatory thereto, and the state’s use tax, SDCL Chapter 10-46
and acts amendatory hereto, and that this shall be considered a similar tax
except for the rate thereof to that tax.
(Ord. 434, passed 8-1-2005)
BED, BOARD, AND BOOZE TAX
§ 113.20  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the municipality by imposing a municipal gross receipts tax pursuant to the
powers granted to the municipality by the state, by SDCL Chapter 10-52A, and
acts amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 424, passed 8-3-2004)
§ 113.21  ENACTMENT OF TAX.
   From and after January 1, 2005, there is hereby imposed a municipal gross
receipts tax of 1% upon the gross receipts from the sale of leases or rentals
of hotel, motel, campsites, or other lodging accommodations within the
municipality for periods of less than 28 consecutive days, the sale of
alcoholic beverages as defined in SDCL 35-1-1, establishments where the public
is invited to eat, dine, or purchase and carry out prepared food for immediate
consumption, and ticket sales or admissions to places of amusement, athletic
and cultural events. The tax applies to the gross receipts of all persons
engaged in business within the jurisdiction of the municipality who are subject
to the state’s retail sales and service tax, SDCL Chapter 10-45, and acts
amendatory thereto.
(Ord. 424, passed 8-3-2004)
§ 113.22  COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL Chapter 10-52A
and acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the state’s Department
of Revenue and Regulation in accordance with the same rules and regulations
applicable to the state sales tax and under such additional rules and
regulations as the state’s Secretary of Revenue shall lawfully prescribe.
(Ord. 424, passed 8-3-2004)
§ 113.23  INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the state’s chapter on retail sales and service tax, SDCL
10-45, and acts amendatory thereto, and that this shall be considered a similar
tax except for the rate thereof to that tax.
(Ord. 424, passed 8-3-2004)
§ 113.24  USE OF REVENUE.
   Any revenues received under this subchapter may be used only for the purpose
of land acquisition, architectural fees, construction costs, payment for civic
center, auditoriums, or athletic facility buildings, including the maintenance,
staffing, and operations of such facilities, and the promotion and advertising
of the municipality, its facilities, attractions, and activities.
(Ord. 424, passed 8-3-2004)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
113.01 to
113.05 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned in the municipal
jail for 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, all such
collection remedies authorized by SDCL Chapter 10-45 and acts amendatory
thereto, and SDCL Chapter 10-46 and acts amendatory thereto, are hereby
authorized for the collection of these excise taxes by the Department of
Revenue and Regulation.
   (C)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
113.20 to
113.24 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection if the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned in the municipal
jail for 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, all such
collection remedies authorized by SDCL Chapter 10-45 and acts amendatory
thereto are hereby authorized for the collection of these excise taxes by the
Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 424, passed 8-3-2004; Ord. 434, passed 8-1-2005)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Miscellaneous Offenses
   
130.01   Disturbing the peace
   
130.02   Resisting, escaping from, or assaulting an officer
   
130.03   False emergency alarms prohibited
   
130.04   Prohibiting open bottles or cans containing alcoholic liquor
   
130.05   Ultimate fighting prohibited
Offenses Against Public Places
   
130.20   Crowds obstructing streets
   
130.21   Littering
Offenses Against Property
   
130.35   Injuring signs
   
130.36   Traffic signs, injuring or placing unauthorized prohibited
   
130.37   Destroying trees and plants
   
130.38   Interference with fire pole and apparatus
   
130.39   Unauthorized connection with water and sewer
   
130.40   Interference with City Engineer, instruments, stakes
   
130.41   Interference with city property
   
130.42   Destroying property
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
§ 130.01  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the peace of the city or any person by violent,
tumultuous, or offensive conduct, or by loud or unusual noises or by profane,
obscene, indecent, violent, or threatening language, or by assaulting,
striking, or attempting to assault or strike another person, or inviting or
defying another person to fight or quarrel, or by willfully and maliciously
destroying or attempting to destroy or injure any property belonging to
another, or by engaging in a fight with another.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02  RESISTING, ESCAPING FROM, OR ASSAULTING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall resist or obstruct any police officer in the performance of
any official duty, nor in any way or aid or assist any person to neither escape
from any such officer, nor assist any person to escape from any lawful
confinement. No person shall assault or strike any police officer, nor in any
way interfere with a police officer in the discharge of his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03  FALSE EMERGENCY ALARMS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly make or give any false alarm or fire or other
emergency, by calling or causing to be called the Fire Department, the police
officers, or any authorized emergency vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04  PROHIBITING OPEN BOTTLES OR CANS CONTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   No person shall take, carry, or have in his or her possession upon a street,
alley, sidewalk, or public grounds of the city, or in any vehicle, any opened
can, bottle, or other container in which there shall be any quantity of beer or
other alcoholic beverage.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05  ULTIMATE FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ULTIMATE FIGHTING. Any activity, regardless of how named or described, or
any other form of competition or entertainment, which involves individuals
engaged in physical contact by striking or touching an opponent with hands,
head, feet, or body. ULTIMATE FIGHTING shall include, but not be limited to,
any contest or event where kicking, punching, martial arts, or submission holds
are permitted. ULTIMATE FIGHTING shall not be deemed to include officially
sanctioned and regulated boxing or martial arts training or contests,
wrestling, and team sports in which physical contact is incidental to the
primary purpose of the game, including, but not limited to, football,
basketball, hockey, volleyball, soccer, baseball, and softball.
   (B)   Ultimate fighting prohibited. No person shall engage in ultimate
fighting as that term is defined in this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PLACES
§ 130.20  CROWDS OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to gather in crowds or groups, or for any
person to stand on any public street or sidewalk in such manner as to obstruct
free passage thereon, or to annoy other persons passing along the same, and any
police officer is authorized to disperse any crowd or group or to cause the
removal of any person violating the provisions of this section, and to
summarily arrest any person in case of refusal to obey any reasonable direction
given by such officer for the purpose of clearing the way or preventing
annoyance to any passerby on any public street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.21  LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to throw or deposit paper,
ashes, or rubbish on the streets, alleys, or public grounds within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.35  INJURING SIGNS.
   No person shall deface, remove, change, mar, or in any way interfere with or
obliterate either wholly or in part any sign, signboard, or card placed,
posted, extended, or erected by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.36  TRAFFIC SIGNS, INJURING OR PLACING UNAUTHORIZED PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deface, injure, move, obstruct, or interfere with any
official traffic sign or signal, street sign, or parking meter.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.37  DESTROYING TREES AND PLANTS.
   (A)   No person shall willfully injure, destroy, or deface any tree, shrub,
hedge, or grass in any parking lot or park.
   (B)   No person shall willfully injure or destroy any cultivated fruits or
vegetables, ornamental trees, shrubs, hedges, vines, or flowers, nor injure or
carry off any of the products thereof which is property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.38  INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE POLE AND APPARATUS.
   No person shall interfere with, injure, break, or jar any fire alarm system,
post, or pole apparatus in any manner, or climb any fire alarm pole without
being properly authorized to do so.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.39  UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTION WITH WATER AND SEWER.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, connect or cause to be connected
with any main service pipe, any pipe, or other device for the purpose of
obtaining water or sewer therefrom; nor shall, with intent to defraud, connect
or cause to be connected with any meter installed for the purpose of
registering the amount of water, or city service supplied to any customer so
that such meter will not measure or register the full amount of water supplied
to any customer.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.40  INTERFERENCE WITH CITY ENGINEER, INSTRUMENTS, STAKES.
   No person shall interfere with the City Engineer while engaged in his or her
official duties in any manner or by driving any vehicle of any kind against the
person, surveying instruments, or apparatus of said City Engineer or of any of
his or her assistants, or by moving or displacing any stake, monument, or bench
mark fixed or located by his or her assistants.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.41  INTERFERENCE WITH CITY PROPERTY.
   No person shall climb or in any manner interfere with any building, water
tower, or structure belonging to the city, without being authorized to do so by
the city; and no person shall in any manner injure or deface any such
structure.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.42  DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully damage, deface, break, destroy, or interface with
the property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Curfew hours
   
131.02   Exceptions
   
131.03   Responsibilities of parent, guardian, or custodian
   
131.04   Responsibility of others
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  CURFEW HOURS.
   No person under the age of 16 years, except as herein provided, shall be on
any public street or alley or in any park or other public grounds or building,
place of amusement, entertainment or refreshment, vacant lot, or any other
unsupervised place between 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day on
Sunday through Thursday and 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. of the following day
on Friday and Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2)
§ 131.02  EXCEPTIONS.
   The restrictions above do not apply when the minor:
   (A)   Is accompanied by the minor’s parent, guardian, or other person having
the minor’s lawful care, custody, or control;
   (B)   Is returning home by a direct route from and within 30 minutes after a
school activity or a religious or other voluntary association when prior notice
of the activity and its place and probable time of termination has been given
to the Police Department by an adult person authorized by the school or
religious or voluntary association to do so;
   (C)   Is employed and is on the way to or from that place of employment; and
   (D)   Is upon an emergency errand or other legitimate business directed by
the minor’s parent, legal guardian, or other adult having the lawful custody of
the minor.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2)
§ 131.03  RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARENT, GUARDIAN, OR CUSTODIAN.
   No parent, guardian, or other adult having custody and control of a minor
under the age of 16 years of age shall knowingly permit the minor to violate
the provisions of this chapter. Any parent or guardian of any child under 16
years of age who shall allow or permit such minor to be in any park, or other
public grounds or building, place of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment,
vacant lot, or any unsupervised place within the city limits, are in violation
of the foregoing sections and provisions of this chapter and shall be subject
to penalty or penalties hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2)  Penalty, see
131.99
§ 131.04  RESPONSIBILITY OF OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not the parent, guardian, or custodian
as defined herein to accompany, loiter, or congregate with any minor under the
age of 16 years in any park or other public grounds or building, place of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment, vacant lot, or alley during the hours
prohibited under the above sections, or the owner or operator of any motor
vehicle during the hours prohibited by this chapter and shall be subject to the
penalty or penalties hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2)  Penalty, see
131.99
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to fine and/or by imprisonment as set in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-7-2)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES AND LICENSES
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES AND LICENSES
Section
International Building Code
   
150.001   Adoption of International Building Code
   
150.002   Establishment of office of Zoning Administrator
   
150.003   Duties of Building Official
   
150.004   Right of entry
   
150.005   Definitions
   
150.006   Building permits required
   
150.007   Appeal
   
150.008   Building permit
   
150.009   Permissible wooden structures in fire limits
International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.020   Purpose
   
150.021   Adoption and revisions
   
150.022   The means and methods of enforcement
Electrical Code
   
150.035   Adoption of Electrical Code
   
150.036   Title and scope
   
150.037   Electricians license required
Plumbing Code
   
150.050   Adoption of National Plumbing Code
   
150.051   Title and scope
   
150.052   Repeal and interpretation
Licensing and Inspection
   
150.065   Definitions
   
150.066   License required
   
150.067   Licensed plumber, general regulations
   
150.068   Revoke license
   
150.069   Supervision
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001  ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   The International Building Code, 2012 edition, as published by the
International Code Council Inc., and amendments and additions thereto, are
hereby adopted by the city as provided by SDCL 9-33-4.1 for regulating the
erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal,
conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of all
buildings or structures and providing for issuance of permits and collection of
fees therefor. The minimum building standards in the 2018 editions of the
International Building Code and amendments thereto shall be applied to any
building permit issued after February 3, 2014. A printed copy of such Code and
additions and amendments thereto is on file with the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)  (Ord. 483, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 150.002  ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The office of Building Official is hereby created and the executive official
in charge shall be the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 150.003  DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to enforce all laws
relating to the construction, alteration, removal, and demolition of buildings
and structures.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 150.004  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Zoning Administrator, in the discharge of his or her official duties,
and upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building,
structure, or premises at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 150.005  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney for the City of Webster.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Webster.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 150.006  BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, together with the Finance Officer, shall
issue and sign permits according to the fee schedule set by the City Council
and on file at the Finance Officer’s office. The chapters and sections of the
Code referring to permits is amended to read as follows.
   (B)   No wall, structure, building, or part of building shall be constructed
or added to, or any permanent fixture, including heat producing appliances,
heating, ventilating, air conditioning, blower, exhaust systems, or conversion
units thereof attached to such building, until a plan or proposed work
statement of the material to be used, the proposed site of such structure, and
the name of the owner of the property to be improved shall be submitted to the
Building Official of the city, by the contractor, builder, or owner; which
shall also state the value or cost of such improvement. If the Building
Official is satisfied that said proposed improvement complies with the law and
city ordinances, he or she may authorize issuing of a permit of such work,
construction, or improvement.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall endorse his or her approval or
disapproval on the application for building permit. If he or she recommends
disapproval on the application for permit, he or she shall state his or her
reasons therefor in writing, and file the same with the City Finance Officer.
The City Finance Officer shall present the application to the City Council at
the next Council meeting, and if the City Council is satisfied that the said
proposed improvement complies with the law and city ordinances, it shall
authorize the City Finance Officer to issue a permit for such work,
construction, or improvement.
   (D)   All permits shall recite therein the conditions and requirements under
which the same are issued, one of which shall be that sidewalks, streets,
alleys, and highways shall not be blocked, or partially blocked, unless
permission is granted in the permit, and also that all debris shall be removed
and not permitted to accumulate on the sidewalks, streets, alleys, or highways,
and shall contain an agreement on the part of the applicant not to engage in
any construction except in accordance with the permit and the provisions of
this chapter. If the value or cost of the improvement for which a permit has
been issued shall exceed the cost of the value of the amount stated in the
application for permit and the permit granted, the contractor, or builder,
shall furnish to the City Finance Officer an additional statement of the cost
or value of such improvement.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the City Finance Officer to keep a file of all
plans, specifications, and work statements upon on which building permits are
granted, with an appropriate index for the same. No owner, contractor, or
builder shall attempt to proceed with any work or improvement of any kind for
which a permit is herein required without first having obtained a permit
therefor.
   (F)   In addition to any other legal remedies open to the city, any person,
owner, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this section
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalties as set in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.007  APPEAL.
   In case any difference should arise between the Zoning Administrator and the
owner of any building, or any person engaged in or desirous of doing any
construction, repair, alteration, moving, or demolition of buildings, regarding
the interpretation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or the enforcement
of the same, appeal may be made to the City Council, whose decision thereon
shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)
§ 150.008  BUILDING PERMIT.
   Upon the approval of the plans or work statement for the proposed
improvement, the City Finance Officer shall furnish the applicant a building
permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)
§ 150.009  PERMISSIBLE WOODEN STRUCTURES IN FIRE LIMITS.
   No frame or wooden structure shall hereafter be built within the fire limits
as defined herein, or as they may be hereafter established, except the
following: temporary one story frame buildings for use of builders; and built
by a retail lumberman upon his or her premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9)
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.020  PURPOSE.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the City Finance
Office, being marked and designated as the International Property Maintenance
Code, 2018 edition, as published by the International Code Council, be and is
hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the city for regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said Property Maintenance Code
on file in the City Finance Office are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this subchapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.021.
(Prior Code, § 6-15-1)  (Ord. 483, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 150.021  ADOPTION AND REVISIONS.
   The following sections are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section 101.1: insert City of Webster;
   (B)   Section 103.5; insert fees set by resolution #155 or any such future
fee resolutions replacing resolution #155;
   (C)   Section 112.4: insert $25 and $200, respectively;
   (D)   Section 302.4: insert ten (10) inches;
   (E)   Section 304.14: insert: May to October;
   (F)   Chapter 4 - Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations: remove
entire Chapter 4;
   (G)   Chapter 5 - Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements: remove
entire Chapter 5;
   (H)   Chapter 6 - Mechanical and Electrical Requirements: remove entire
Chapter 6;
   (I)   Chapter 7 - Fire Safety Requirements: remove entire Chapter 7;
   (J)   Chapter 8 - Referenced Standards: remove entire Chapter 8; and
   (K)   Appendix A - Boarding Standard: remove entire Appendix.
(Prior Code, § 6-15-2)  (Ord. 483, passed 1-6-2014)
§ 150.022  THE MEANS AND METHODS OF ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The means and methods of enforcement, plus the appeals process, is
also consistent with the other current adopted Codes on file in the city
ordinance book. In general, the IPMC addresses minimum safety standards for
existing buildings and addresses the exterior of buildings and the properties
on which buildings are located. This Code is consistent with the city’s public
nuisance ordinances regarding unlicensed/inoperable vehicles and the
accumulation of rubbish and garbage. Again, this is a tool that can be used to
abate a nuisance.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter or in the Property Maintenance Code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any
court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of
action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance; nor shall any just or
legal right or remedy or any character be lost, impaired, or affected by this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-15-3)  (Ord. 483, passed 1-6-2014)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.035  ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations to govern the use of electricity for light, heat, power, radio,
and for other purposes that certain electrical code known as the National
Electrical Code, recommended the National Board of Fire Underwriters, being
particularly the most current edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and
except such portion as are hereafter deleted, modified, or amended of which a
copy is on file in the office of the City Finance Officer and the same are
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and
from the date on which this subchapter shall take effect, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 150.036  TITLE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Title.
      (1)   This Code shall be known as the “National Electrical Code”, may be
so cited, and will be referred to in this chapter as this Code.
      (2)   The administration and enforcement of this subchapter shall be the
duty of the Building Official who is hereby authorized to take such action as
may be reasonably necessary to enforce the purposes of this Code. Such persons
may be appointed and authorized as assistants or agent of such administrative
authority as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this Code shall apply to govern electrical
work as defined in this Code, including the practice, materials, and fixtures
used in all new installations, electrical conductors, fittings, devices, and
fixtures for light, heat, and power service equipment and all equipment used
for power supply to radio and television receiving systems and amateur radio
transmission systems and buildings and structures; and all alterations and or
extensions to existing wiring systems and within or adjacent to any building or
other structure or conveyance or on any premises within the city limits of the
city.
   (C)   Exceptions. No electrical work pertaining to light, heat, or power, or
other purposes, shall be installed nor shall an alteration or an extension of
an existing electrical system be made until a permit has been issued therefor
as required in this Code except as herein specifically provided.
   (D)   Public service agencies. The provisions of this Code shall not apply
to installations for electric supply or communication agencies in the
generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity or the operation of
signals or the transmission of intelligence or located within or on buildings
or premises used exclusively by such agency or on public thoroughfares.
   (E)   Railway utilities. The provisions of the Code shall not apply to the
installations or equipment employed by a railway utility in the exercise of its
functions as a public carrier, located outdoors or in buildings used
exclusively for that purpose.
   (F)   Radio and television transmitting stations. The provisions of the
basic code shall not apply to electrical equipment used for radio or television
transmission, except the equipment and wiring for power supply and the
installation of radio or television towers and antennas, whether erected on
buildings or on the ground.
   (G)   Definitions. The following terms, as defined herein, and as used in
the Code are as follows (other terms are defined in Article 100 of the National
Electrical Code, as adopted):
      BUILDING SERVICE EQUIPMENT. The mechanical, electrical, and elevator
equipment, including piping, wiring, fixtures, and other accessories, which
provide sanitation, lighting, heating, ventilating, firefighting, and
transportation facilities essential for the habitable occupancy of the building
or structure for its designated use and occupancy.
      ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. All installations of electrical conductors,
fittings, devices, and fixtures within or on public and private buildings.
      ELECTRICAL SERVICE EQUIPMENT. The equipment located at point of entrance
off supply conductors to a building which constitutes the main control of
supply and means of cut-off of electricity, including circuit-breaker switches,
fuses, and electrical accessories.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 150.037  ELECTRICIANS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall be permitted to engage in
a business of installing any electric wiring or construct or install electric
apparatus or machinery in any building upon any premises within the limits of
the city without first procuring a license from the City Council.
      (2)   Said license may be granted by the City Council to any person who
is the holder of a valid license from the state under the provisions of SDCL
36-16-1 et seq., and such person shall, upon application for license, exhibit
to the City Auditor satisfactory evidence of such license and that such license
is in full force and effect.
   (B)   (1)   Such application shall be accompanied by a license fee to be
determined by the City Council for a license as Class B electrician, journeyman
electrician, or electrical contractor as the case may be.
      (2)   Such license to expire December 31 following its issuance.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.050  ADOPTION OF NATIONAL PLUMBING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the City Council for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations governing plumbing as defined in this Code, including
permits and penalties, that certain plumbing code known as “The National
Plumbing Code” as adopted by the American Standards Association, being
particularly the most recent edition thereof, and the whole thereof, excepting
such portions as are hereinafter deleted, nullified, or amended, of which a
copy is on file in the office of the Finance Officer of the city, and the same
are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and
from the date on which this subchapter shall take effect, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling pertaining to plumbing, as defined in this Code,
within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 150.051  TITLE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Title.
      (1)   This Code shall be known as “The National Plumbing Code”, may be so
cited, and will be referred to in this chapter as “this Code”.
      (2)   The administration and enforcement of this subchapter shall be the
duty of the City Council who is hereby authorized to take such actions as may
be reasonably necessary to enforce the purposes of this Code. Such persons may
be appointed and authorized as assistants or agents of such administrative
authority as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this Code shall apply to govern plumbing as
defined in this Code, including the practice, materials, and fixtures used in
the installation, maintenance, extension, and alteration of all piping,
fixtures, appliances, and appurtenances in connection with any of the
following: sanitary drainage or storm drainage facilities, the venting system,
and the public or private water supply systems, within or adjacent to any
building or other structure, or conveyance; also the practice and materials
used in the installation, maintenance, extension, or alteration of the storm
water or sewage system of any premises to their connection with any point of
public disposal or other terminal.
   (C)   Facilities. It is recognized that certain facilities in or adjacent to
public streets that are referred to in this Code are only partially owned or
controlled by the owner or occupants of the building or premises to which this
Code applies.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
§ 150.052  REPEAL AND INTERPRETATION.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of the
National Plumbing Code are hereby repealed, and in the event any ordinance or
part of ordinance of the city is inconsistent in any manner with the provisions
of said National Plumbing Code, then in that case the provisions of the
National Plumbing Code shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3)
LICENSING AND INSPECTION
§ 150.065  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLUMBING.  The professional, art, trade of, and all work done and all
matters used in and for introducing, maintaining, and extending a supply of
water through a pipe or pipes or any appurtenances thereof in a building,
structure, or establishment; installing, connecting, or repairing any system of
drainage whereby foul waste, rain or surplus water, gas, odor, vapor, or fluid
is discharged or proposed to be discharged through a pipe or pipes from any
building, structure, or establishment; connecting with any building, structure,
or establishment with any service pipe, public main, or other underground
structure; and performing all classes of work generally done by plumbers,
including the installation of water heaters or water heating equipment.
   PLUMBING SYSTEM OF A BUILDING. Includes the water supply distributing pipes;
the fixtures and fixture traps; the soil wastes and vent pipes; the house drain
and house sewer; the storm water drainage with their devices; and appurtenances
and connections all within or adjacent to the building structure or premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
§ 150.066  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business without first securing a license from
the City Council as provided for in this subchapter. This section shall not,
however, apply to any individual engaged in the plumbing work as an apprentice
under the direct supervision and control of a master plumber.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.067  LICENSED PLUMBER, GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every licensed master plumber shall be held responsible for the acts
of his or her journeyman plumbers, agents, or employees done under and by
virtue of his or her license. Any charge in business name or location by a
licensed plumber shall be promptly reported to the Finance Officer.
   (B)   The plumbing license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the
place of business of the licensee. No plumbing license shall be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3)
§ 150.068  REVOKE LICENSE.
   In addition to other penalties imposed, the City Council may revoke the
license of any plumber for violation of any provisions of this subchapter by
such plumber or his or her employee.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4)
§ 150.069  SUPERVISION.
   All plumbing work in process of construction, alteration, or repair shall be
under the supervision of the Water/Sewer Department, which is empowered to stop
such work when it is being done contrary to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General  Provisions
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
   
151.002   Findings of fact
   
151.003   Statement of purpose
   
151.004   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
151.005   Definitions
   
151.006   Application
   
151.007   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.008   Compliance
   
151.009   Conflict of law
   
151.010   Interpretation
   
151.011   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.025   Establishment of development permit
   
151.026   Designation of City Finance Officer
   
151.027   Duties and responsibilities of the City Finance Officer
Variance Procedure
   
151.040   Appeal Board
   
151.041   Conditions of variances
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.055   General standards
   
151.056   Anchoring
   
151.057   Construction materials and methods
   
151.058   Utilities
   
151.059   Subdivision proposals
   
151.060   Encroachments
Specific Standards
   
151.075   Generally
   
151.076   Residential construction
   
151.077   Nonresidential construction
   
151.078   Manufactured homes
   
151.079   Recreational vehicles
GENERAL  PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature has, in SDCL 9-36 and amendments thereto, delegated
the responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Council does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.002  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately flood-proofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.003  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions to specific areas by provisions designed:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   (G)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
   (H)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.004  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.005  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   APPEAL. A request for a review to the City Finance Officer interpretation of
any provisions of this
chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equalled or exceeded in
any given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation
of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads) are completed before the effective date of this
chapter.
   EXPANSION TO EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special food
hazards and the risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway
map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the original ordinance codified herein, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of these floodplain management regulations.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual START of construction,
repair, reconstruction, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual START means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.006  APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.007  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood
Insurance Study for the City of Webster” dated December 6, 2001, with an
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), is hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter. The Flood Insurance Study and FIRM
are on file at 800 Main St., Webster, SD.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.008  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.009  CONFLICT OF LAW.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.010  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.011  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.025  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
151.007.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the City Finance Officer and may include, but not limited to, plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, locations, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been flood-proofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the flood-proofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
flood-proofing criteria in §
151.077; and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.026  DESIGNATION OF CITY FINANCE OFFICER.
   The City Finance Officer is hereby appointed to administer and implement
this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in
accordance with its provisions.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.027  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CITY FINANCE OFFICER.
   Duties of the City Finance Officer shall include, but not be limited to the
following.
   (A)   Permit review.
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from federal, state, or local governments agencies
from which prior approval is required; and
      (3)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood-carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   (B)   Use of other base flood data. When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with §
151.007, the City Finance Officer shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and flood way data available from any federal, state,
or other source as criteria for requiring that new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development in Zone A are administered in accordance
with §§
151.075 to 151.079.
   (C)   Information to be obtained and maintained.
      (1)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement;
      (2)   For all new or substantially improved flood-proofed structures:
         (a)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure has been flood-proofed; and
         (b)   Maintain the flood-proofing certifications required in §
151.025(B)(3).
      (3)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Alteration of watercourses.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Coordinating Office
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
      (2)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said water course so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished.
   (E)   Interpretation of FIRM Boundaries. Make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in §§
151.040 and
151.041.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
VARIANCE PROCEDURE
§ 151.040  APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   The City Council, as established by the city, shall hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
City Finance Officer in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the City Council, or any taxpayer,
may appeal such decisions to the Fifth Judicial Circuit Court as provided in
SDCL 11-4-25.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the City Council shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owners;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront locations, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with the existing and
anticipated development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, streets, and
bridges.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (D) above and the
purposes of this chapter, the City Council may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (F) The City Finance Officer shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions, including technical information, and report any variances to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.041  CONDITIONS OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items §
151.040(D) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
one-half acre, the technical justifications required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expenses, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public as identified in §
151.040(D), or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.055  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.056  ANCHORING.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure and capable
of resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
   (B)   All manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement and capable of resisting the
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of anchoring may include, but are
not limited to use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. Specific requirements may be:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations,
with manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system shall be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.057  CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.058  UTILITIES.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.059  SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development which contain at least 50 lots or five acres,
whichever is less.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.060  ENCROACHMENTS.
   The cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the water
surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
SPECIFIC STANDARDS
§ 151.075  GENERALLY.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
151.007 or
151.027(B), the following provisions are required.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.076  RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the base
flood elevation.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.077  NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial,
or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to the level of the base flood elevation, or, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
   (A)   Be flood-proofed so that below the base flood elevation the structure
is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
   (B)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
   (C)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this section. Such
certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
151.027(C)(2).
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.078  MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance with §
151.056(B).
   (B)   All manufactured homes or those to be substantially improved shall
conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved on a site outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage”
as the result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the
lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement; and
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions that are
not subject to the provision in division (B)(1) above be elevated so that
either the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation, or the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
§ 151.079  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Require that recreational vehicles either be on the site for fewer than 180
consecutive days, be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or meet the
permit requirements and elevation and anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
(Ord. 400A, passed 8-6-2001)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Setting of regulations
   
152.003   Grandfather clause
   
152.004   Jurisdiction defined
   
152.005   Jurisdiction out of corporate limits
   
152.006   Interpretation
   
152.007   Definitions
Official Zoning Map
   
152.020   Generally
   
152.021   Zoning map changes
   
152.022   Zoning map replacement
   
152.023   Zoning map
Application of District Regulations
   
152.035   Minimum regulations
   
152.036   Zoning affects every building and use
   
152.037   Performance standards
   
152.038   Open space of off-street parking or loading space
   
152.039   Yard, lot, sidewalk, and boulevard reduction prohibited
   
152.040   Unclassified or unspecified uses
Establishment of Districts
   
152.055   Classes of districts
Residential District
   
152.070   Intent
   
152.071   Permitted principal uses and structures
   
152.072   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
152.073   Minimum lot requirements
   
152.074   Sidewalk location
   
152.075   Signs
   
152.076   Manufactured home regulations
Business District
   
152.090   Intent
   
152.091   Permitted principal uses and structures
   
152.092   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
152.093   Special exceptions
   
152.094   Minimum lot requirements
   
152.095   Minimum yard requirements
   
152.096   Sidewalk location
Industrial District
   
152.110   Intent
   
152.111   Permitted principal uses and structures
   
152.112   Area regulations
   
152.113   Permitted principal uses and structures
   
152.114   Special exceptions
   
152.115   Minimum yard requirements
   
152.116   Industrial performance standards
Planned Mobile Home District
   
152.130   Intent
   
152.131   Permitted principal uses and structures
   
152.132   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
152.133   Minimum lot requirements
   
152.134   Minimum yard requirements
   
152.135   Mobile home parks
   
152.136   Mobile home regulations within a mobile home park
   
152.137   Sidewalk location
   
152.138   Mobile home regulations
Supplementary District Regulations
   
152.150   Intent
   
152.151   Erection of more than one principal structure on a lot
   
152.152   Building in street
   
152.153   On-site exterior sign requirements
   
152.154   Off-site sign requirements
   
152.155   Spacing of signs
   
152.156   Setback requirements
Nonconforming Lots, Uses of Land, Structures,
Uses of Structures and Premises, and Characteristics of Uses
   
152.170   Intent
   
152.171   Nonconforming lots of record
   
152.172   Nonconforming uses of land (or land with minor structures only)
   
152.173   Nonconforming structures
   
152.174   Repairs and maintenance
   
152.175   Uses under Special Exceptions Provision Act
Administrative Procedure and Enforcement
   
152.190   Adoption of International Building Code
   
152.191   Administration and enforcement
   
152.192   Building permits required
   
152.193   Application for building permit
   
152.194   Awnings
   
152.195   Construction and use to be as provided in application and permits
   
152.196   Estimating construction costs on all building/zoning permits
applications
   
152.197   Electrical or communications towers and dishes, permit required
   
152.198   Size and placement
   
152.199   Fee structure
City Planning and Zoning Commission
   
152.210   Created
   
152.211   Proceedings of the City Planning and Zoning Commission
   
152.212   Hearings, appeals, and notices
Ordinance Administration
   
152.225   Administrative review
   
152.226   Special exceptions; conditions governing applications; procedure
   
152.227   Variances, conditions governing applications; procedures
   
152.228   City Planning and Zoning Commission has powers to zoning body on
appeals; reversing decision of zoning body
Appeals
   
152.240   Duties of zoning body, City Planning and Zoning Commission/Board of
Zoning Adjustment, and City Council on matters of appeal
   
152.241   Appeal procedure
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and shall be cited and referred to as “The
Zoning Ordinance of Webster, South Dakota” to the same effect as if full titles
were stated.
(Prior Code, § 14-1)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.002  SETTING OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations for the zoning districts as herein set forth are made
in accordance with a comprehensive plan for the purpose of promoting the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the community. They are designed to
lessen congestion in the streets, to secure safety from fire, panic, and other
dangers, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent overcrowding of land, to
avoid undue concentration of population and to facilitate the adequate
provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public
requirements. They are made with responsible considerations, among other
things, as to the character of each district and its particular uses and with a
view of conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate
use of land throughout the city.
   (B)   This chapter regulates the location, size, use, and height of
buildings, the arrangement of buildings on lots, the size of yards and other
open spaces, the location and use of buildings, structures, and land for trade,
industry, residence, and other purposes; establishing the boundaries of
districts for said purposes and providing fines and penalties for violations,
so as to promote the public health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity, and
general welfare of the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-2.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.003  GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   All lots, land uses, and structures existing prior to the adoption of this
chapter will be allowed to continue. However, nonconforming uses, lots,
structures, and characteristics will be subject to the conditions §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-2.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.004  JURISDICTION DEFINED.
   The provisions of this chapter apply within the corporate limits of the
city, and within the one mile territory beyond said corporate limits, per SDCL
9-29-1, as now or hereafter fixed, established on the map entitled “The
Official Zoning Map of the City of Webster, South Dakota”, as the same may be
amended by subsequent annexation. Said map and amendments thereto and all
explanatory matter thereof accompanies and is hereby made a part of this
chapter. Said map shall be on file in the office of the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-3.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.005  JURISDICTION OUT OF CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The area of joint control shall require action jointly by the City Planning
Commission and the County Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-3.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.006  INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, unless otherwise stated, words used in the
present tense include the future; the singular number includes the plural, and
the plural the singular; the word SHALL is mandatory, not discretionary; the
word MAY is permissive; the word PERSON includes a firm, association,
organization, partnership, trust, limited liability company, or corporation, as
well as an individual; the word LOT includes the words plat or parcel; and the
words USED or OCCUPIED include the words intended, designed, or arranged to be
used or occupied.
(Prior Code, § 14-5-5.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.007  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A use or structure on the same lot with and of a nature customarily
incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure. ACCESSORY
BUILDING is defined as an unattached structure used for purposes other than a
residence.
      (2)   ACCESSORY BUILDING shall not exceed a height of 18 feet to peak of
the structure. The minimum setback distance shall be the same as those for
residences and/or private garages.
      (3)   No ACCESSORY BUILDING or private garage shall be constructed,
replaced, or moved in until the following is complied with: the structure shall
not exceed a length of 36 feet or a width of 32 feet and shall have a maximum
height of 18 feet above ground level. All ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR GARAGES,
whether they are to be newly constructed, replaced, or moved in shall be of
materials which are of the same or similar composition as the existing
residences on the same lot. In the event there are no other structures on the
lot where the building is to be placed, said building shall be constructed of
materials common to the area, with the exception of small utility buildings not
to exceed 120 square feet. Colored steel shall be allowed to be placed
vertically sided on accessory buildings. The colors of steel used shall be
common colors of the neighboring properties.
      (4)   Said building may only be for the private use of the owner and not
for commercial purposes with the exception of storage.
      (5)   Residential buildings will only be allowed to be constructed,
replaced, or moved in when they are in compliance with the following: the
structure or attachments (decks or entrances) shall have a minimum setback
distance of 25 feet from the frontal lot line. (All setback distances referred
to for buildings shall be to the closest point of the structure). However, in
the event other structures exist on the adjoining lots, said building shall not
extend to the street side beyond the existing frontal structure line. The side
lot setback distance shall be a minimum of five feet.
   ADJACENT PROPERTY. Properties connecting without regard for streets, alleys,
or public right-of-way that divide the properties.
   ADJOINING PROPERTY. Properties connecting with a side in common.
   BOULEVARD AREA. Street right-of-way from the curbline (whether there is curb
and gutter installed or not) of the surfaced street to the property line.
Generally on a 66-foot residential street right-of-way, there shall be 15 feet
on each side of the street for open space and public sidewalk. The surface may
be of any appropriate surfacing material to assure compliance with soil erosion
and sedimentation control standards, often this is landscaped. It is maintained
by the property owner, but ownership remains with the city.
   BUILDING. Includes the word STRUCTURE and is a structure which is entirely
separated from any other structure by space or by walls in which there are no
communicating doors or windows or similar openings. Within a principal
building, including covered porches and paved patios, is the principal use of
the lot on which it is situated. In any residential district, any dwelling
shall be deemed to be the principal building on the lot on which the same is
situated.
   CITY COUNCIL. The Webster City Council.
   BUILDING AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after providing for the
required yards.
   COMMISSION. Webster City Planning and Zoning Commission.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning district, but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location, or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the
public health, safety, and welfare. Such uses may be permitted in such zoning
district as a CONDITIONAL USE.
   CORNER LOT. Residence facing on the long side of lot. In the event of a
residential building being constructed, replaced, or moved in on a CORNER LOT,
the minimum setback distance of the side lot abutting a street shall be ten
feet. The setback distance on the frontal side shall be a minimum of 25 feet
from the property line. There shall be a minimum setback distance of ten feet
from the property line on the back side (backyard) and a minimum setback
distance of five feet from the remaining lot and/or alley side. In no case
shall any building be constructed, replaced, or moved in which extends beyond
the existing structure line on any street side.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX. A residential dwelling unit designed for two families
living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A residential dwelling designed for two or more
families living independently of each other and doing own cooking in said
building.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit other than a
mobile home, designed for one family.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room or rooms, connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly, or long-term basis, and physically separated
from any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking, bathroom, and sleeping facilities.
   FEEDLOT, COMMERCIAL. A place where the principal business is the feeding of
livestock and such feeding is not done as a subordinate activity to the
production of crops on the premises of which the feedlot is a part.
   FENCE.
      (1)   An enclosure about a field or other space, or about any object;
especially, an inclosing structure of wood, iron, or other material, intended
to prevent intrusion from without or straying from within. It must be
constructed of the same material throughout.
      (2)   No person, firm, or corporation shall hereafter construct, erect,
or maintain or cause to be constructed, erected, or maintained in the city any
FENCES of any character or material, exceeding seven feet in height, above the
sidewalk or the surface of any lot or parcel of ground; provided, that any such
FENCE so constructed, erected, or maintained shall not exceed five feet in
height when the same is within 40 feet of the street line, and provided
further, that no FENCE or any part thereof shall be constructed of barbed wire.
Only fencing construction materials customarily used within a specific zoning
district shall be used. Residential Zoning District may use wood, wood panel,
vinyl, or chain link, but not steel panel fencing. FENCES must be set back at
least two feet from the side lot line and five feet from the alley way to allow
for maintenance. Visibility at intersections must be addressed and maintained.
On any corner lot, no FENCE shall be constructed which may cause danger to
traffic on a street by obscuring the view. A written agreement (variance) with
the abutting landowner is required if FENCE is to be placed closer than two
feet to the side lot line. A FENCE may be placed on the property line when the
fencing project is shared between property owners. FENCES may be placed on the
lot line in business, commercial, and industrial zoned property, however,
FENCES located on lots adjacent to a residential district shall be located so
as to conform on the adjacent side with the side and rear yard requirements for
the adjacent residential district. Hedges or other plantings which create a
fence effect are subject to the same regulations as FENCES. No FENCE shall be
constructed or erected without first obtaining a building permit. Fencing
around athletic facilities and public property shall be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of all gross horizontal enclosed area of the several
floors of a building and its accessory building on the same lot excluding
basement floor areas and non-enclosed portions of the structure. All dimensions
shall be measured between exterior faces of walls.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation conducted in a dwelling unit provided that:
      (1)   No more than one other person, in addition to members of the
family, residing on the premises shall be engaged in such occupation;
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 30% of the floor area of the dwelling shall be
used in conduct of the HOME OCCUPATION;
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such HOME OCCUPATION
other than one sign, not exceeding one square foot in area, non-illuminated and
mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
      (4)   No traffic shall be generated by such HOME OCCUPATION in greater
volumes than would normally be accepted in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard; and
      (5)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in a
single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no equipment
or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference in any
radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations in line
voltage off the premises.
   HORTICULTURE. The art or science of growing flowers, fruits, and vegetables.
   JUNKYARDS. The use of more than 750 square feet of open storage on any lot,
portion of a lot, or tract of land for the sale, storage, keeping, or
abandonment of junk, scrap metals, or salvageable materials, or for the
abandonment, dismantling, or wrecking of automobiles or other vehicles,
machines, or parts thereof.
   KENNEL. Any lot, structure, or premises where up to three licensed dogs and/
or cats over the age of three months are kept.
   LOT. A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are herein required. Such LOT shall have frontage on an improved
public street, or an approved private street, and may consist of:
      (1)   A single lot of record;
      (2)   A portion of a lot of record;
      (3)   A combination of portions and/or complete lots of record; and
      (4)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in no
case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created
which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered FRONTAGE, and yards shall be provided as indicated under YARDS as
defined herein.
   LOT MEASUREMENTS. Depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance
between the midpoints of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the
side lot lines in front and the rearmost points of the side lot lines in the
rear; and width of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between
straight lines connecting front and rear lot lines at each side of the lot,
measured across the rear of the required front yard.
   LOT TYPES. Any lot within the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be one of
the following types.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting a curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER
LOT if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side of lot lines
to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than 135
degrees.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street.
      (3)   THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more
than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. Include double wide mobile homes, modular homes,
prefabricated homes, prebuilt homes, package, or kit homes. MANUFACTURED HOMES
shall constitute single-family and two-family dwellings for purposes of this
chapter if said dwelling has a minimum width of 23 feet, is covered with
conventional siding, has a shingled or other suitable roofing material as
commonly found on homes built on site with a pitched roof which stands on a
permanent foundation, with or without a basement, and is taxed as real estate.
All MANUFACTURED HOMES as herein before described shall consist of units
produced in a factory or other building location and then moved to erection
site all of which are produced in accordance with the Federal Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et
seq.) as amended or the Uniform Building Code (International Conference of
Building Officials) and then transported to the site and designed for long-term
residential use.
   MOBILE HOME. A one-family dwelling unit of vehicular, portable design, built
on a chassis and designed to be moved from one site to another and to be used
without permanent foundation and regardless of whether or not such wheels have
been removed. This definition applies to single width, eight feet, ten feet, 12
feet, 14 feet, 16 feet, or such other single width trailers as may appear.
Regardless if a permanent foundation is placed under the MOBILE HOME as defined
above and regardless if the mobile home is subsequently taxed as real property,
the above-described dwelling unit shall remain a MOBILE HOME for purpose of
this chapter. Single trailers or MOBILE HOMES will be permitted only in
designated mobile home parks. This definition shall not be construed as to
include manufactured modular, prefabricated, precut, prebuilt, packaged, or kit
housing or dwelling units, as hereinbefore defined, all of which are built away
from the site and transported to the site for erection, provided that when
completely erected, said manufactured modular, precut, prefabricated, prebuilt,
packaged, or kit housing or dwelling unit shall be on a permanent foundation
and taxed as real property.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.
      (1)   Any premises where one or more mobile homes are parked for living
or sleeping purposes, or any premises used or set apart for supplying to the
public, parking space for one or more mobile homes for living or sleeping
purposes, and which include any buildings, structures, vehicles, or enclosure
used or intended for use, or intended wholly or in part, for the accommodation
of automobile transients.
      (2)   All trailer home sites established prior to the effective date of
this chapter, even though located in an area in which said trailer home site is
prohibited, shall not be affected by the location provisions of this section,
but shall be required to comply with all other provisions of this chapter;
provided, however, that any trailer home site located in an area prohibited by
this section if abandoned by removal of said trailer coach shall thereafter
come within the provisions of this chapter and shall not again be occupied as a
trailer home site.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any building or land unlawfully occupied by a use at the
time of passage of this chapter, which does not conform after passage of this
chapter.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. It is a criterion established for the purpose of:
      (1)   Assigning proposed industrial uses to proper districts; and
      (2)   Making judgments in the control of noise, odor, smoke, toxic
matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare generated by, or
inherent in, uses of land or buildings.
   PRINCIPAL OR PRIMARY USE OR STRUCTURE. The main use or structure of the lot
as permitted in the district where the lot is situated. In any residential
district, any dwelling shall be deemed to be the PRINCIPAL BUILDING on the lot
on which the same is situated.
   PUBLIC SIDEWALKS. A permanent smooth, hard surfaced area maintained for
walking by the public. The construction of all sidewalks and curbing, whether
to be done by direct contract with the city or by contract with the abutting
property owners, shall be done strictly in accordance with the specifications
for sidewalks and curbing adopted by the City Council and on file in the office
of the finance officer. The City Council may condemn work and material not in
accordance with the requirements of said specifications.
   PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATION. An area where facilities are provided for the
distribution of telephone, radio communications, water, gas, and electricity.
These facilities shall be permitted as a conditional use in the various zoning
districts subject to conditions which will assure their harmony, especially
aesthetically with the nature of the respective districts.
   SECONDARY USE OR STRUCTURE. See ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE.
   SECURITY FENCE. A solid fence that is constructed to completely obstruct all
visibility through it. The FENCE shall be constructed of metal fencing, deck
materials, wood, or lumber that is placed closely enough together so there will
not be any openings in the FENCE. The entire length of the FENCE shall be
constructed of the same materials and shall be aesthetically similar to the
buildings, fences, and structures of the surrounding property.
   SHELTER BELT. A strip or belt of trees or shrubs established to reduce soil
erosion and to protect yards, lots, buildings, livestock, residences,
recreation areas, and wildlife from the wind.
   SIGNS. Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons not
on the premises on which the sign is located, provided, however, that the
following shall not be included in the application of the regulations herein:
      (1)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box number, names of occupants or premises, or other
identification of premises not having commercial connotations;
      (2)   Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion;
      (3)   Legal notices; identification, informational, or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies;
      (4)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights; and
      (5)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private
property, but bearing no advertising matter.
   SIGN, OFF-SITE. A sign other than an exterior or interior on-site sign. OFF
SITE SIGNS are more conventionally known as BILLBOARDS regardless of size.
   SIGN, ON-SITE, EXTERIOR. An exterior sign relating to its subject to the
premises on which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or
activities on the premises. EXTERIOR ON-SITE SIGNS do not include signs erected
by the outdoor advertising industry in the conduct of the outdoor advertising
business, such as billboards which are off-site signs.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning district, but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location, or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the
public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience,
appearance, prosperity, or general welfare. Such uses may be permitted in such
zoning district as SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS, if specific provisions for such special
exception are made in this chapter.
   STREET LINE. The lot line abutting right-of-way line (front property line).
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes, walls, signs,
billboards, and poster panels.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure which will be at a location for one year or
less. TEMPORARY STRUCTURES are not considered permanent uses. Storage pods and
storage containers are defined as TEMPORARY STRUCTURES in residential areas.
Minimum setback distance shall be the same as those for residences and/or
private garages as established in the definition of accessory use or structure
above. Placement will be considered by the City Council upon completion of a
temporary building permit and shall include a start and end date for placement
of the TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. Temporary building permits are subject to the same
fee structure for building permits on file in the city office.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and/or recreational purpose.
   TRUCK OR EQUIPMENT TERMINAL. Any lot, structure, or premises used for the
parking or storage of capital equipment such as trucks, trailers, or other like
equipment.
   UTILITY SUBSTATION. See PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATIONS.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such variance will
not be contrary to the public interest and where, owning to conditions peculiar
to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal
enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. As
used in the ordinance, a VARIANCE is authorized only for height, area, and size
of structure or size of yards and open spaces. Establishment or expansion of a
use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by VARIANCE, nor shall a variance
be granted because of the presence of non-conformities in the zoning district
or uses in an adjoining zoning district. This is not to be confused with a
special exception.
   YARD. A required open space other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed
by any structure or portion of a structure from 30 inches above the grade of
the lot upward, provided, however, that fences, walls, poles, posts, and other
customary yard accessories, ornaments, and furniture may be permitted in any
yard subject to height limitations and requirements limiting obstruction of
visibility.
   YARD, FRONT.
      (1)   A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of a lot
adjoining a public street.
      (2)   In the case of corner lots, a FRONT YARD of the required depth
shall be provided in accordance with the prevailing yard pattern; and a second
front yard of minimum of ten feet depth from lot line (side lot) of what is
required generally for front yards in the district shall be provided on the
other frontage.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of the lot between inner side
yard lines. In the case of through lots and corner lots, there will be no REAR
YARDS, but only front and side yards. Depth of a required REAR YARD shall be
measured in such a manner that the yard established is a strip of the minimum
width required by district regulations with its inner edge parallel with the
rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the far line of the required front yard to
the rear lot line.
   ZONING BODY. Appointed by the City Council, and is responsible for carrying
out the rules and regulations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-5-5.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
§ 152.020  GENERALLY.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into districts as shown on the official
zoning map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor, attested by the City Finance Officer, and bearing the seal of the city
under the following words: “This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning
Map referred to in §§
152.020 to
152.023 enacted by Ordinance No. – adopted (date).
(Prior Code, § 14-4-4.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.021  ZONING MAP CHANGES.
   (A)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are
made in the district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official
zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning map promptly
after the amendment has been approved by the City Council with entry on the
official zoning map as follows: “On (date), by the official action of the City
Council, the following (change(s)) were made in the Official Zoning Map (brief
description of nature of change), which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and
attested by the City Finance Officer. No amendment to this chapter which
involves matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map shall become effective
until after such change and entry has been made on said map.
   (B)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning map or
matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this
chapter.
   (C)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning
map which may, from time to time, be made or published, the official zoning
map, which shall be located in the office of the City Finance Officer, shall be
the final authority as to the current zoning status of land and water,
buildings, and other structures in the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-4.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.022  ZONING MAP REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed,
lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the City Council may, by ordinance, adopt a new/updated zoning map,
that will supersede the prior official zoning map. The new official map shall
be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Finance
Officer, and bearing the seal of the city under the following words: “This is
to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official
Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of zoning map being replaced) as part of
Ordinance No. – of Webster, South Dakota.”
   (B)   Unless the prior official zoning map has been lost or has been totally
destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining shall be
preserved together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or
amendment.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-4.0103)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.023  ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The zoning map is changed and established new boundaries for the
following districts: residential districts, business districts, and industrial
districts.
   (B)   This new zoning map shall continue to be part of Ord. 180 of the city
and shall continue to be on file at the City Finance Office in the City Hall.
(Ord. 335, passed 12-4-1989)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.035  MINIMUM REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth by this chapter within each district shall be
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land and particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-6.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.036  ZONING AFFECTS EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   No building, structure, or land shall hereinafter be used or occupied; and
no building or structure or part thereof shall hereinafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-6.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.037  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
   (A)   To exceed the height or bulk;
   (B)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
   (C)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; and/or
   (D)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open spaces, than herein required, or in other manner contrary to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-6.0103)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.038  OPEN SPACE OF OFF-STREET PARKING OR LOADING SPACE.
   No part of a yard or other open space shall be considered off-street parking
or loading space.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-6.0104)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.039  YARD, LOT, SIDEWALK, AND BOULEVARD REDUCTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No yard, lot, sidewalk, or boulevard existing at the time of passage
of this chapter shall be reduced in dimension or areas below the minimum
requirements set forth herein.
   (B)   Yards, lots, sidewalks, or boulevards created after the effective date
of this chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-6.0105)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.040  UNCLASSIFIED OR UNSPECIFIED USES.
   Unclassified or unspecified uses may be permitted by special exception after
the City Planning Commission has made a review and determination that such uses
are similar in character to the principal uses permitted in the district.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-6.0106)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 152.055  CLASSES OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into
classes of districts which shall be designated as follows:
      (1)   Residential district;
      (2)   Business district;
      (3)   Industrial district; and
      (4)   Mobile home park.
   (B)   The boundaries of said districts shall be as shown upon the zoning
map. The said map and all the notations, references, and other things shown
thereon shall be as much a part of this chapter as if the matters and things
shown by said map were fully described herein.
   (C)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot, the regulations as to
the use in the less restricted district shall extend over the portion of the
lot in the more restricted district, a distance of not more than 50 feet beyond
the district boundary line.
(Prior Code, § 14-7-7.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.070  INTENT.
   The intent of residential district is to provide for residential uses of
varying types and other compatible uses in a pleasant and stable environment.
(Prior Code, § 14-8-8.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.071  PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Single-family and two-family dwellings;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings shall be limited to three stories in height
when located in residential districts, and shall be used for residential
purposes only;
   (C)   Manufactured homes at least 24 feet wide, placed on a permanent
foundation for single-family use;
   (D)   Churches, synagogues, and temples, convents;
   (E)   Nursery, primary, intermediate, and secondary schools, day care,
libraries, and museums;
   (F)   Public recreational and park facilities, golf courses and country
clubs, and community buildings owned by the municipality;
   (G)   Non-commercial horticultural uses;
   (H)   Convalescent, nursing, and rest homes, hospitals, and clinics;
   (I)   Mortuary and funeral homes;
   (J)   Medical and other health facilities;
   (K)   Governmental services; and
   (L)   Utility substations, public works, and public utility facilities
including, but not limited to, transformer stations, pumping stations, water
towers, radio or television transmitter stations, and telephone exchanges.
(Prior Code, § 14-8-8.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.072  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Home occupations and professional offices; and
   (B)   (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the
permitted uses and structures when established within space limits of this
district.
      (2)   Accessory buildings, including one private garage when located not
less than 25 feet from the front lot line and not less than five feet from any
side lot line, unless designed and constructed as a part of the main building.
      (3)   In case of a garage on a corner lot, the same shall be set at least
ten feet back of the building line on the long side of the lot.
      (4)   Accessory use on the same lot with and customary incidental to any
of the above permitted uses. This shall be understood to include the
professional office or studio of a doctor, dentist, masseur, teacher, artist,
architect, musician, lawyer, magistrate, or practitioner of a similar
character, or rooms used for home occupations including dressmaking, millinery,
laundry, or similar handicrafts; provided that the office, studio, or
occupational room is located in a dwelling in which the said practitioner
resides, or in a building accessory thereto; and, provided that no goods are
publicly displayed on the premises and no sign or advertisement is shown other
than a size not larger than one square foot in area bearing only the name and
occupation, in words only of the practitioner.
(Prior Code, § 14-8-8.0103)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.073  MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The minimum lot areas shall be 7,000 square feet for single-and
multi-family dwellings. The minimum lot width shall be 50 feet.
      (2)   All land annexed to the city shall be placed in the residential
district, and remain there until such time as it is re-zoned by the affirmative
action of the City Council. In any new additions to the city, no residential
lots shall be platted with a width of less than 100 feet. There shall be a rear
yard and two side yards provided for all buildings in the residential district.
      (3)   No rear yard shall be less than 25% of the lot length; and no side
yard shall be less than five feet from the outermost edge of the structure.
   (B)   There shall be a front yard the depth of which shall not be less than
the mean average setback line of all buildings in the same block fronting on
the same street; provided, that no building shall be erected less than 25 feet
from the front property line.
   (C)   In case of a corner lot, a front yard shall be required on each street
on which the lot abuts, provided, that in the case of a corner lot with a width
of less than 60 feet, the depth of the front yard on the long side of the lot
may be decreased when authorized as a special exception by the City Council in
accordance with the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 14-8-8.0104)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.074  SIDEWALK LOCATION.
   If sidewalks are installed, they shall be a minimum width of five feet
located ten feet from the curb line. The rest of the boulevard area shall be
landscaped.
(Prior Code, § 14-8-8.0105)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.075  SIGNS.
   Signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in area, pertaining to the lease,
hire, or sale of the building or premises.
(Prior Code, § 14-8-8.0106)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.076  MANUFACTURED HOME REGULATIONS.
   Manufactured homes are a permitted use in a residential district and may be
permitted by special exception in other districts provided that they must:
   (A)   Be placed on a permanent foundation approved by the governing body of
the city. Permanent foundation to be constructed of properly cemented concrete
block or poured cement footings of no less than 18 inches wide and drilled down
a minimum of six feet below ground level. A plastic liner or vapor barrier
shall be in place before home is placed on site;
   (B)   A permanent perimeter enclosure around the foundation is required and
must be capable of supporting the structure. It can be made of wood, brick,
cement block, poured cement, or other suitable material. Plywood fixed to wood
for appearance only is not acceptable;
   (C)   Have had the towing hitch and running gear, which includes tongues,
axles, brakes, wheels, lights, and other parts of the chassis that operate only
during transportation, removed;
   (D)   Have a pitched roof with not less than two and one-half feet of rise
for each 12 feet of horizontal run with any roofing material used that is
generally accepted for housing built on site; and
   (E)   Having exterior siding constructed from any materials that are
generally accepted for housing built on site if applied in such a manner as to
be similar in appearance, provided, however, that reflection from such exterior
shall not be greater than from siding coated with clean, white, gloss, exterior
enamel.
(Prior Code, § 14-8-8.0107)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 152.090  INTENT.
   The intent of the business district is to provide a commercial area for
those establishments serving the general shopping needs of the trade area and,
in particular, those establishments customarily oriented to the pedestrian
shopper. The grouping of uses is intended to strengthen the central business
area as the urban center of trade, service, governmental, and cultural
activities and to provide neighborhood commercial convenience areas.
(Prior Code, § 14-9-9.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.091  PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in the
business district:
   (A)   All uses permitted in a residential district;
   (B)   All retail sales and services;
   (C)   Clubs, lodges, and fraternal organizations;
   (D)   Hotels and apartment buildings;
   (E)   Office, bank, and financial institution;
   (F)   Place of amusement;
   (G)   Restaurant, bakery, pastry, candy, or ice cream shop;
   (H)   Public garage, sales, services and repair shop, gas station, and
retail lumber yards;
   (I)   Carpenter, cabinet making, furniture, and upholstering shop,
electrical shop, metal working, plumbing, and paint store;
   (J)   Newspaper or job printing;
   (K)   Funeral service; and
   (L)   Any use of the same general character as any of the uses hereinbefore
specifically permitted, when authorized as a special exception by the City
Council in accordance with the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 14-9-9.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.092  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Those accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the permitted
uses and structures when established within the space limits of this district.
(Prior Code, § 14-9-9.0103)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.093  SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   After the provisions of this chapter relating to special exceptions have
been fulfilled, the City Council may permit as special exceptions in the
business district:
   (A)   Grain elevators;
   (B)   Other trade and service uses which are similar to the permitted
principal uses and which are in harmony with the intent of this district;
   (C)   Structures containing both commercial and residential uses;
   (D)   Wholesale trade; and
   (E)   Multi- and single-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 14-9-9.0104)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.094  MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum lot width shall be 25 feet.
(Prior Code, § 14-9-9.0105)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.095  MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings located on lots adjacent to a residential district shall be
located so as to conform on the adjacent side with the side and rear yard
requirements for the adjacent residential district.
(Prior Code, § 14-9-9.0106)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.096  SIDEWALK LOCATION.
   If sidewalks are installed, they shall be a minimum width of eight feet
located from the curbline.
(Prior Code, § 14-9-9.0107)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.110  INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of the industrial district is to provide space for certain
types of industrial and/or manufacturing and/or warehousing or storage
operations which are compatible to adjoining districts. Such uses generally
require open storage of materials or goods either before, during, or after the
manufacturing process but are of a low noise or nuisance level. Land designated
for this district should be located in relation to the thoroughfare network of
the community as well as rail and air if required and designated as to not
disrupt normal traffic flow. Planned industrial parks are encouraged in this
district. In the industrial districts, the following regulation shall apply.
   (B)   A building may be erected, altered, or used, and a lot or premises may
be used for any of the following purposes and for no other.
(Prior Code, § 14-10-10.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.111  PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in the
industrial district:
      (1)   Any of the uses permitted in the residential or business districts;
      (2)   Grain elevators, feed mills, and storage warehouses;
      (3)   Bottling works;
      (4)   Contractor plant equipment and accessory storage yard;
      (5)   Building material storage yard;
      (6)   Warehouses, general storage (not for combustible materials);
      (7)   Wholesale warehouses;
      (8)   Monument works; and
      (9)   All manner of manufacturing industries which are not objectionable
from standpoint of sight, smell, or noise.
   (B)   The following uses, but only upon the securing of a special use
permit:
      (1)   Funeral homes;
      (2)   Drive-in businesses where people are served in automobiles;
      (3)   List of additional uses:
      (4)   Livestock barns, stockyards, or corrals;
      (5)   Bulk gas and oil storage;
      (6)   Manufactured gas storage;
      (7)   Slaughtering house, poultry killing and dressing;
      (8)   Explosives of any kind - storage;
      (9)   Junkyard storage;
      (10)   Canning factories;
      (11)   Brewery and malt houses; and
      (12)   All other lawful uses not prohibited by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14-10-10.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.112  AREA REGULATIONS.
   In the industrial district, neither rear yards or side yards shall be
required except as follows.
   (A)   Buildings erected for dwelling purposes exclusively shall comply with
the rear yard and side yard regulations for the residential district.
   (B)   Buildings erected for mixed use, namely, for both dwelling and
business purposes, shall comply with the rear yard and side yard regulations
prescribed for such buildings in the business district.
   (C)   No building or use which is excluded from the business district shall
be permitted within ten feet of any residential district lot.
   (D)   Every rear yard and every side yard that is provided, where not
required by these regulations, shall be not less than three feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 14-10-10.0103)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.113  PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES.
   There are no permitted principal uses or structures.
(Prior Code, § 14-10-10.0104)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.114  SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission may permit as a special use in
general industrial districts any use which is consistent with the intent of
this district. The performance standards found in §
152.116 may be used as guidelines in determining conditions of the use.
(Prior Code, § 14-10-10.0105)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.115  MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Each side yard setback shall not be less than 20 feet, provided, that on
lots adjacent to a residential lot, all buildings shall be located so as to
provide a minimum side and rear yard to 25 feet along that portion of the lot
adjacent to the residential lot.
(Prior Code, § 14-10-10.0106)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.116  INDUSTRIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Physical appearance. All operations shall be carried on within an
enclosed building except that new material or equipment in operable condition
may be stored in the open. Normal daily wastes of an inorganic nature may be
stored in containers not in a building when such containers are not readily
visible from the street.
   (B)   Fire hazard. No operation shall involve the use of highly flammable
gases, solids, acids, liquids, grinding processes, or other inherent fire
hazard. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit the use of normal
heating fuels, motor fuels, and welding gases when handled in accordance with
other city ordinances.
   (C)   Noise. No operation shall be carried on which involves noise in excess
of the normal traffic noise of the adjacent street at the time of the high
traffic hour. Noise shall be measured by observation with the natural senses, a
suitable instrument may be used and measurement may include breakdowns into a
reasonable number of frequency ranges. All noises shall be muffled so as not to
be objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency, or shrillness.
   (D)   Sewage and liquid waste. No operation shall be carried on which
involves the discharge into a sewer, watercourse, or the ground of liquid
wastes of any radioactive nature, or liquid wastes of a chemical nature which
are detrimental to normal sewage plant operation or corrosive and damaging to
sewer pipes and installation.
   (E)   Air contaminants. Due to the fact that the possibilities of
identifying all air contaminants cannot reasonably be covered in this section,
there shall be applied the general rule that there shall be no discharge unless
such discharge occurs naturally, without human intervention, from any source
whatsoever such quantities of air contaminants or other material as may cause
injury, detriment, nuisance, or annoyance to any person, or to the public in
general or as to endanger the comfort, repose, health, or safety of residents
or to cause or have a natural tendency to cause injury or damage to business,
vegetation, or property.
   (F)   Gases. The gases sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide shall not exceed
five parts per million. All nitrous fumes shall not exceed one part per
million. Measurements shall be taken at the property line of the particular
establishment involved.
   (G)   Vibration. All machines including punch presses and stamping machines
shall be mounted so as to minimize vibration and in no case shall such
vibration exceed a displacement of three thousandths of an inch measured at the
property line.
   (H)   Glare and heat. All glare, such as welding arcs and open furnaces,
shall be shielded so that they shall not be visible from the property lines. No
heat from furnaces or processing equipment shall be sensed at the property line
to the extent of raising the temperature of air or materials more than 5°F.
(Prior Code, § 14-10-10.0107)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
PLANNED MOBILE HOME DISTRICT
§ 152.130  INTENT.
   This district is created to preserve and enhance property values in the city
by providing designated, distinctive areas of not less than two acres having a
minimum of 300 feet in width in which mobile homes may be situated for
residential dwelling purposes. It is the intent that this district be a
desirable, prominent area providing adequate open space and essentially the
same considerations given to citizens of other residential districts.
(Prior Code, § 14-11-11.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.131  PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in the
planned mobile home park district:
   (A)   Mobile home dwellings;
   (B)   Laundromats, including facilities for coin-operated dry cleaning
machines; and
   (C)   Parks and playgrounds.
(Prior Code, § 14-11-11.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.132  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Only those accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to principal
uses and structures.
(Prior Code, § 14-11-11.0103)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.133  MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum lot area for individual mobile homes shall be 7,000 square feet.
The minimum lot width shall be 50 feet. The overall density of any mobile home
park shall not exceed six units per gross acre.
(Prior Code, § 14-11-11.0104)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.134  MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   There shall be a front yard of not less than a depth of 25 feet. There shall
be a rear yard of not less than a depth of seven feet. Each side yard shall be
seven feet as measured from the outermost edge of the structure. On long side
abutting a street, the set back distance shall be ten feet. All buildings
located on lots adjacent to a residential district shall be located so as to
conform on the adjacent side with the side and rear yard requirements for the
adjacent residential district.
(Prior Code, § 14-11-11.0105)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.135  MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   A mobile home park may be established by following the rezoning process for
the residential mobile home district provided:
   (A)   A request for a change in zoning district to residential mobile home
shall set forth the topography, legal description of the proposed mobile home
park property, and a sketch of the proposed mobile home park, showing
dimensions, driveways, proposed locations of mobile homes, the location of
sanitary conveniences and other buildings and improvements;
   (B)   Certification of compliance with all ordinances and regulations
regarding mobile home park licensing and zoning, health, plumbing, electrical,
building, fire prevention, and all other applicable ordinances and regulations
shall be a prior requirement; and
   (C)   Property line, easements, and rights-of-way will also be shown.
(Prior Code, § 14-11-11.0106)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.136  MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS WITHIN A MOBILE HOME PARK.
   (A)   Property standards. Planned mobile home developments are permitted as
a matter of right in districts zoned as planned mobile home districts; however,
to implement the statement of intent for this district, the following standards
shall be met by any applicant.
      (1)   The proposed property shall be located so that it shall not be
necessary for excessive traffic movement from the park to pass through an
existing single-family residential area or area suitable for future single-
family residential development.
      (2)   The property is not within an area used nor planned for industrial
development, nor will be occupants of the proposed park be in any way adversely
affected by nearby existing or planned industrial uses.
   (B)   Access and street requirements.
      (1)   All mobile home spaces must be served from internal private streets
within the mobile home park, and there shall be no direct access from a mobile
home space to a public street or alley. These streets must be at least
graveled.
      (2)   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for
each mobile home space; guest parking in the ratio of one parking space per
five mobile home spaces shall be interspersed throughout the mobile home park.
      (3)   No internal private street access to public street shall be closer
than 100 feet to any public street intersection.
      (4)   All streets shall be lighted in accordance to the standards of the
city.
      (5)   Stop signs shall be placed at all public street intersections.
Yield signs placed appropriately on internal private streets.
      (6)   Entrance to mobile home parks shall have direct connections to a
public road and shall be designed to allow free movement of traffic on such
adjacent public roads.
      (7)   Streets should be of adequate widths to accommodate the
contemplated parking and traffic load in accordance with the type of street
with ten feet minimum moving lanes for collector streets, nine feet minimum
moving lanes for minor streets, and seven feet minimum lanes for parallel
parking.
      (8)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Applicants shall comply with appropriate requirements of the
subdivision regulations.
         (b)   Additional development requirements may be prescribed as
conditions when such requirements are determined to be necessary to ensure the
protection of the character of the neighboring properties, the compatibility of
land uses, and the health and safety of mobile home park occupants.
(Prior Code, § 14-11-11.0107)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.137  SIDEWALK LOCATION.
   If sidewalks are installed, they shall be a minimum width of five feet
located ten feet from the curb line. The rest of the boulevard area shall be
landscaped.
(Prior Code, § 14-11-11.0108)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.138  MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS.
   All inhabited mobile homes in allowed districts must comply with the
following mobile home regulations.
   (A)   Skirting. All mobile homes shall have adequate skirting from the
bottom of coach to the ground.
   (B)   Mobile home tie downs. Each mobile home up to 14 feet in width shall
be provided with over-the-top tie downs.
   (C)   Ground anchors. Mobile home ground anchors shall be provided for each
mobile home. Anchors shall be capable of withstanding 5,700 pounds of pull and
sunk to a depth of five feet.
   (D)   Each mobile home or trailer shall have water and sewer connections and
shall comply in all aspects to all appropriate state, county, and city
sanitation, health, and safety regulations and codes.
   (E)   Each mobile home park shall be in charge of a person or persons of
legal age who shall maintain the mobile home park in a clean, orderly, and
sanitary condition at all times. Lot number and trailer identification shall be
placed on each lot, readily visible to visitors and the general public. Street
surfaces must be kept in a condition whereas standing water will not create
insect breeding areas. Each mobile home court or park must maintain a register
of all occupants.
(Prior Code, § 14-11-11.0109)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.150  INTENT.
   Nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a
manner as materially to impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet
and ten feet above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the
area bounded by the street lines of such corner lots and a line joining points
along said street lines 50 feet from the point of the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 14-12-12.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.151  ERECTION OF MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE ON A LOT.
   In any district, more than one structure housing a permitted or permissible
principal use may be erected on a single lot, provided, that yard and other
requirements of this chapter shall be met for each structure as though it were
on an individual lot.
(Prior Code, § 14-12-12.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.152  BUILDING IN STREET.
   No person shall erect or maintain any building in such a position that the
same shall stand in whole or in part upon any public street, road, alley, or
sidewalk in said city, or so constructed that any part of the building proper
shall project into or over such street, road, alley, or sidewalk; provided that
jutting windows, cornices, and other projections from the buildings above the
first story may extend over an adjoining street, road, alley, or sidewalk, not
exceeding 18 inches; and no person shall construct any step, area, or other
appurtenance to any building extending over or upon the sidewalk nor shall any
person erect in any public street or road any flight of stairs or step leading
to any floor of any buildings.
(Prior Code, § 14-12-12.0103)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.153  ON-SITE EXTERIOR SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   On-site, exterior signs will be allowed in any zones as long as they are not
in a deteriorated condition. Signs in this condition must be restored or
removed upon notification by the City Council to this effect. All such signs
along federal primary and secondary highways must adhere to all federal and
state standards, in addition to the requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-12-12.0104)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.154  OFF-SITE SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   No off-site signs will be permitted along state and federal highways except
in business districts and industrial districts. State law will prevail along
all federal aid primary and interstate roads. No other off-site signs hereafter
may be erected or maintained in the remaining districts except as erected by an
official unit of government for the direction or control of traffic, and
information to the general public. All off-site signs within the boundaries of
this zoning chapter must have a setback of no less than 20 feet from the
property line.
(Prior Code, § 14-12-12.0105)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.155  SPACING OF SIGNS.
   Signs may not be located in such a manner as to obscure or otherwise
physically interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign,
signal, or device; obstruct or physically interfere with the driver’s view of
approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
(Prior Code, § 14-12-12.0106)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.156  SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All primary and accessory structures and storage sheds shall adhere to
front, side, and rear setback requirements of their particular district.
   (B)   All fences shall be placed no closer than two feet from the property
line unless a written agreement with the abutting landowner is obtained.
(Prior Code, § 14-12-12.0107)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES OF LAND, STRUCTURES, USES OF STRUCTURES AND PREMISES,
AND CHARACTERISTICS OF USES
§ 152.170  INTENT.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that
may later be adopted, there exist:
      (1)   Lots;
      (2)   Structures;
      (3)   Uses of land and structures; and
      (4)   Characteristics of use; which were lawful before this chapter was
passed or amended but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under
the terms of this chapter and future amendments. It is the intent of this
chapter to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but
not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this chapter that
non-conformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, nor be used
as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district.
   (B)   Nonconforming uses are declared by these regulations to be
incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. A nonconforming use
of a structure or a nonconforming use of land and structure in combination
shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this chapter by attachment
on a building or premises intended to be seen from off the premises or by the
addition of other uses of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the
district involved.
   (C)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
this adoption or amendment of this chapter and upon which actual building
construction has been carried on diligently. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby
defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent position
and fastened in a permanent manner. Where excavation or demolition of an
existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such
excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction,
provided that work shall be carried on diligently.
(Prior Code, § 14-13-13.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.171  NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Such lot must be in separate ownership. This provision shall apply
even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both,
that are generally applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions
and requirements other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the
lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is
located. Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained only through action of
the City Planning Commission.
   (C)   In any district, if two or more lots or combination of lots and
portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at
the time of passage or amendment of this chapter and if all or part of the lots
do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this
chapter; and no portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminished compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this
chapter; nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with
width or area below requirements stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-13-13.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.172  NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND (OR LAND WITH MINOR STRUCTURES ONLY).
   Where at the time of passage of this chapter, lawful use of land exists
which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this chapter, the
use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
   (A)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter;
   (B)   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than two years, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located; and
   (C)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land.
(Prior Code, § 14-13-13.0103)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.173  NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on areas, lot coverage, height, yards, its
location on the lot, or other requirements concerning the structure, such
structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions.
   (A)   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in any way
which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its nonconformity.
   (B)   Should such nonconforming structures or nonconforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of its
reasonable fair market value/replacement cost at the time of destruction, it
shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(Prior Code, § 14-13-13.0104)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.174  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on
ordinary repairs or on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures,
wiring, or plumbing to an extent not exceeding 10% of the current reasonable
fair market value/replacement cost of the nonconforming structure or
nonconforming portion of the structure as the case may be, provided that the
cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be increased.
   (B)   If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs
and maintenance and is declared by any duly authorized official to be unsafe or
unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be restored,
repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by an official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official.
(Prior Code, § 14-13-13.0105)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.175  USES UNDER SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PROVISION ACT.
   Any use which is permitted as a special exception use in a district under
the terms of this chapter (other than a change through the City Planning
Commission action from a nonconforming use to another use not generally
permitted in the district) shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such
district but shall without further action be considered a conforming use at the
date of adoption of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-13-13.0106)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.190  ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings and
structures, including permits and penalties, that certain building code known
as the International Building Code, 2012 edition thereof and the whole thereof,
save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended,
of which a copy is on file in the office of the City Finance Officer, and the
same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein, and from the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all buildings
and other structures within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-14-14.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.191  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administration known as the zoning body shall be designated by the
City Council and shall administer and enforce this chapter. The zoning body may
be provided with the assistance of such other persons as the City Council may
direct.
   (B)   If the zoning body shall find that any of the provisions of this
chapter are being violated, it shall notify in writing the person responsible
for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the
action necessary to correct it. The zoning body may order discontinuance of
illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings,
structures, additions, alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of
any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this
chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 14-14-14.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.192  BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building, except a temporary structure, shall be erected, partially
erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a permit therefor
issued by the city. No builder, hired to complete the construction, with or
without pay, including any firm, corporation, partnership, or individual, shall
commence work upon the construction until a building permit is first obtained
by the owner or the builder. No building permit shall be issued by the city
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, unless by a written
order from the City Planning and Zoning Commission in the form of an
administrative review special exception, or variance as provided by this
chapter.
   (B)   The issuance of a building permit shall, in no case, be construed as
waiving any provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-14-14.0103)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.193  APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   All applications for building permits shall show the actual dimensions
and shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes and locations on the lot
of buildings already existing, if any; and the location and dimensions of the
proposed building or alteration. Anyone desiring to move any building into,
along, or across any public street, alley, or highway must describe the lot on
which it is to be moved, the street along which it is proposed to move such
building, the time when such moving will take place, and the size of the
building.
   (B)   The application shall include such other information as lawfully may
be required by the city, including existing or proposed uses of the building
and land; the number of families, housekeeping units, or rental units the
building is designed to accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and such
other matter as may be necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for
the enforcement of, this chapter.
   (C)   The application for a building permit shall be required to have
accompanying photographs of the structure to be moved; and an inspection by the
zoning body to determine structure suitability and building code compliance may
be required. This inspection shall be at the applicant’s expense.
   (D)   One copy of the application shall be returned to the applicant, one
copy will be sent to the county, and the original retained in the city offices
after the permit is approved or disapproved and attesting to the same by the
applicant’s signature. The Finance Office staff shall issue permits and the
mayor shall sign permits after approval by the governing body according to the
fee schedule as provided by §
152.240. If a building permit is refused, the zoning body shall state the
reasons for such refusal in writing.
   (E)   If the work described in any building permit has not been
substantially completed within one year of the date of issuance thereof, said
permit shall expire and be cancelled by the zoning body unless the permit is
renewed sooner by the zoning body. If the work described in the building permit
has not been substantially completed within one year of the date of the first
issuance of the permit, the permit shall be cancelled by the City Planning and
Zoning Commission unless the applicant is able to show cause to the Planning
and Zoning Commission as to why the work has not been completed and why the
permit should be renewed. Building permits can be extended for an additional
six months by written request of the applicant to the zoning body. Before
cancellation of a building permit, notice thereof shall be given to the persons
affected, together with notice that further work as described in the cancelled
permit shall not proceed unless and until the permit has been renewed.
(Prior Code, § 14-14-14.0104)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.194  AWNINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set up or maintain any awning or
wood, metal, or other hard material over or above any street, alley, or
sidewalk or any portion thereof within the limits of the city without first
having obtained a permit for doing so; provided the cloth or temporary awnings
may be placed at a height not less than seven feet above any sidewalk or 14
feet above any street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 14-14-14.0105)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.195  CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATION AND PERMITS.
   Building permits issued on the basis of applications approved by the city
authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in such
application. Use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that authorized
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and punishable as provided by §
152.999.
(Prior Code, § 14-14-14.0106)
§ 152.196  ESTIMATING CONSTRUCTION COSTS ON ALL BUILDING/ZONING PERMITS
APPLICATIONS.
   All building/zoning permits shall be obtained by application of the owner or
builder and shall give an estimated cost of the construction or repairs and
initial fees shall be based on such estimate; provided, that if at the
completion of said construction or repair the estimated cost as given in the
application appears inadequate to the city zoning body, it may demand bills or
receipts to substantiate such value and additional fees may be assessed
accordingly. It is the owner’s responsibility to obtain a permit prior to
construction on his or her property, owned or leased.
(Prior Code, § 14-14-14.0107)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.197  ELECTRICAL OR COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND DISHES, PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, or business to
erect, construct, hang, or maintain any electrical generation or communication
tower greater than ten feet in height or satellite dish greater than three feet
in diameter without first obtaining a permit.
   (B)   Any person desiring a permit shall make written application therefor
to the City Planning and Zoning Commission, which application shall set forth
and fully describe the kind, character, and size of such tower or dish, with
the location of such structure and said written application shall further
contain an agreement and understanding that the person signing the same will
indemnify and save harmless the city from any and all costs, expenses, and
damages that may be caused by erecting, hanging, or maintaining such tower or
dish and that the person signing said application will pay or cause to be paid,
any judgment for costs and damages that may be recovered against the city
arising out of the injuries to persons or property occasioned by said tower or
dish.
   (C)   Upon filing of said written application with the Finance Officer, the
City Planning and Zoning Commission may, if it deems such tower or dish safe
and deems the applicant financially able to meet his or her said obligation,
grant said permit and order the Finance Officer to issue a permit therefor in
writing upon the payment of a fee therefor; said permit shall specify the
manner in which said tower or dish shall be placed and attached to its location
and its size, and character and liability insurance coverages.
(Prior Code, § 14-14-14.0108)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.198  SIZE AND PLACEMENT.
   Towers and satellite dishes shall comply with minimum front, side, and rear
yard requirements for the respective zone in which it is to be placed. Dishes
and towers shall be constructed and anchored according to the manufacturer’s
instructions. Ground towers may have a basic height of up to 35 feet. For every
one additional foot in from the side or rear building setback lines, another
one foot in height may be added to a maximum height of 60 feet. Roof towers
shall not extend more than 20 feet above the point of attachment and dishes
attached to the side or roof of a building shall not extend more than 12 feet
above the point of attachment.
(Prior Code, § 14-14-14.0109)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.199  FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish the terms, conditions, and fee
structures which shall regulate the manner of use of public right of ways,
street, alleys, and municipal poles. These terms, conditions, and fee
structures shall be kept on file with the Finance Officer of the city.
   (B)   No person may use public property belonging to the city without a
license from the city to do so based on applying and complying with the terms
and conditions set and paying a fee required.
(Prior Code, § 14-14-14.0110)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
CITY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 152.210  CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Planning and Zoning Commission/Board of Adjustment
which shall be referred to as the City Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 14-15-15.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see SDCL 11-6-2
§ 152.211  PROCEEDINGS OF THE CITY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall serve as a Board of
Adjustment as provided by state law. The City Planning and Zoning Commission
shall adopt rules necessary for the conduct of its affairs and in keeping with
the provisions of this chapter. The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall
keep record of all proceedings. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times the Planning and Zoning Commission may
determine. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting chair, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be
open to the public.
   (B)   The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent
or failure to vote indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be of public record
and be immediately filed with the Secretary of the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall adopt from time to time, subject to the approval of
the City Council, such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to carry
appropriate provisions of this chapter into effect.
   (C)   In exercising the duties granted to it by this chapter, the City
Planning Commission shall by ordinance adopt regulations governing land uses,
building or setback lines, and the subdivision or platting of land within the
city in accordance with SDCL Chapters 11-4 and 11-6.
(Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.212  HEARINGS, APPEALS, AND NOTICES.
   (A)   Appeals to the City Planning and Zoning Commission may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the city
affected by any decision of the zoning body. Such appeal shall be taken within
15 days after permit publications in the newspaper, by filing with the officer
from whom the appeal is taken and with the City Planning and Zoning Commission
a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the
appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the City Planning and Zoning
Commission all the paper constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken.
   (B)   The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall, within 15 days after
receipt of the petition, hold a public hearing on the appeal, give public
notice prior to, as well as give due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent
or by attorney.
(Prior Code, § 14-15-15.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.225  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power to hear and
decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirements,
decision, or determination made by an administrative official or agency based
on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation relating to the location
or soundness of structures or to interpret any map.
(Prior Code, § 14-16-16.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.226  SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS; CONDITIONS GOVERNING APPLICATIONS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall have power to hear and
decide, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, requests for special
exceptions or for decisions upon other special questions upon which the City
Planning and Zoning Commission is authorized by this chapter to pass; to decide
such questions as are involved in determining whether special exceptions with
such conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under this chapter, or to
deny special exceptions when not in harmony with the purpose and intent of this
chapter.
   (B)   A special exception shall not be granted by the City Planning and
Zoning Commission unless and until:
      (1)   A written application for a special exception is submitted
indicating the section of this chapter under which the special exception is
sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested;
      (2)   Notice shall be given at least 15 days in advance of public
hearing. The owner of the property for which special exception is sought or his
or her agent and all adjacent property owners shall be notified by mail. Notice
of such hearing shall be posted on the property for which special exception is
sought, at City Hall, and in one other public place at least 15 days prior to
the public hearing;
      (3)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person,
or by agent or attorney;
      (4)   The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall make a finding that
it is empowered under the section of this chapter described in the application
to grant the special exception, and that the granting of the special exception
will not adversely affect the public interest;
      (5)   Before any special exception shall be issued, the City Planning and
Zoning Commission shall make written findings certifying compliance with the
specific rules governing individual special exceptions and that satisfactory
provision and arrangement has been made concerning the following where
applicable:
         (a)   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures thereon
with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe;
         (b)   Off-street parking and loading areas where required, with
particular attention to the items in division (B)(5)(a) above and economic,
noise, glare, or other effects of the special exception on adjoining properties
generally in the district;
         (c)   Refuse and service areas, with reference to the items in
divisions (B)(5)(a) and (B)(5)(b) above;
         (d)   Utilities, with reference to locations, availability, and
compatibility;
         (e)   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions, and
character;
         (f)   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect, and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district;
         (g)   Required yards and other open space; and
         (h)   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other
property in the district.
      (6)   After the City Planning and Zoning Commission has granted a special
exception, the applicant shall have six months to begin use of the special
exception or it shall be void without further consideration but after notice to
the applicant
(Prior Code, § 14-16-16.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.227  VARIANCES, CONDITIONS GOVERNING APPLICATIONS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power, where,
by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a specific piece
of property at the time of the enactment of this chapter, or by reason of
exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and exceptional
situation or condition of such piece of property, the strict application of any
regulation under this chapter would result in peculiar and exceptional
practical difficulties to, or exceptional and undue hardships upon, the owner
of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the property, a
variance from such strict application so as to relieve such difficulties or
hardships, as such relief may be granted without substantially impairing the
intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Commission unless it finds
that the strict application of this chapter would produce undue hardship; such
hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the same zoning
district and the same vicinity; the authorization of such variance will not be
of substantial detriment to adjacent property; and the character of the
district will not be changed by the granting of the variance; and the granting
of such variance is based upon reasons of demonstrable and exceptional hardship
as distinguished from variations for purposes of convenience, profit, and
caprice.
   (C)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Commission finds that the
conditions or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property concerned is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make
reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as
an amendment to this chapter.
   (D)   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the
City Planning and Zoning Commission unless and until a written application for
a variance is submitted demonstrating that special conditions and circumstances
exist which are peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which
are not applicable to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same
district; that literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter; that the special conditions and
circumstances do not result from the action of the applicant; that granting the
variance requested will not confer on the applicant any special privilege that
is denied by this chapter to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same
district.
   (E)   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in
the same district, and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures,
or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of
a variance.
   (F)   Notice of public hearing shall be given as in §
152.226; the public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person, or
by agent or by attorney; the City Planning and Zoning Commission shall make
findings that the requirements of this section have been met by the applicant
for a variance; the Commission shall further make a finding that the reasons
set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and that the
variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of
the land, building, or structure; the Commission shall further make a finding
that the granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
   (G)   In granting any variance, the City Planning and Zoning Commission may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
chapter. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of term
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and punishable under §
152.999.
   (H)   Under no circumstances shall the City Planning and Zoning Commission
grant a variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter
in the district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by
the terms of this chapter in said district.
   (I)   After the City Planning and Zoning Commission has granted any
variance, the property owner has one year to begin use of the variance or it
shall be void without further consideration but after notice to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 14-16-16.0103)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.228  CITY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION HAS POWERS TO ZONING BODY ON
APPEALS; REVERSING DECISION OF ZONING BODY.
   In exercising the above-mentioned power, the City Planning and Zoning
Commission may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from, and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination appeal as ought to be made, and to that
end shall have all the powers of the city zoning body from whom the appeal is
taken. The concurring vote of the majority of the membership of the Planning
and Zoning Commission shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of any such zoning body, or to decide in favor of
the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under the
ordinance or to effect any variation in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-16-16.0104)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
APPEALS
§ 152.240  DUTIES OF ZONING BODY, CITY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION/BOARD OF
ZONING ADJUSTMENT, AND CITY COUNCIL ON MATTERS OF APPEAL.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of interpretation
and enforcement shall be presented first to the city zoning body. Such
questions may be deferred by the zoning body for consideration by the City
Planning and Zoning Commission/Board of Adjustment in appeal from the decisions
of the zoning body.
   (B)   (1)   Recourse from the decisions of the City Planning and Zoning
Commission/Board of Adjustment shall be to the City Council.
      (2)   The procedure for deciding such questions shall be as stated in
this section and chapter. Under this chapter, the City Council shall have the
duties:
         (a)   Of considering and adopting or rejecting proposed amendments or
the repeal of this chapter as provided by law; and
         (b)   Of establishing a schedule of fees and charges. The City Council
shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and expenses and a collection
procedure for building permits, certificates of zoning compliance, appeals, and
other matters pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees shall be posted
in the Finance Office and may be altered or amended only by the City Council.
Until all application fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no
action shall be taken on any application for appeal.
(Prior Code, § 14-17-17.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.241  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions set forth in this chapter may, from time to time,
be amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by action of the City
Council or when such amendment, supplement, change, modification, or repeal is
requested through a petition by 30% of the landowners in the district
requesting change. An individual landowner may also petition the Board to
change the zoning of all or any part of his or her property.
      (2)   Upon filing or upon separate request by the City Council, the City
Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board shall hold a public hearing not
less than 15 days after the notice is published in the official newspaper of
the city and/or county and subject to the provisions in SDCL Chapter 11-4.
      (3)   Such petitioning landowner shall also notify all other abutting
landowners by certified mail of the petitioned zoning change at least one week
prior to any public hearing held thereon by the City Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (B)   The City Planning and Zoning Commission shall within 45 days make its
recommendation to the City Council. The report of such recommendation shall
include approval, disapproval, or other suggestions and the reasons therefor,
and a discussion of the effect on such amendment, supplement, change,
modification upon adjacent property, and upon the comprehensive plan.
   (C)   The City Council shall therefore, by duly enacted ordinance, either
adopt or reject such amendment, supplement, change, modification, or repeal,
and if it is adopted by the City Council, the same shall be published in the
official newspaper in the city and/or county and take effect on the twentieth
day after its publication.
(Prior Code, § 14-18-18.0101)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Building permit violations. Each violation shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed $200, or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days
for each violation, or by both the fine and imprisonment. The city shall, in
addition, be entitled to maintain an action for civil injunctive relief,
pursuant to SDCL Chapter 21-8.
(Prior Code, § 14-19-19.0101)
   (B)   Violation of ordinance. Each violation of these ordinances shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $200, or by imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 30 days for each violation, or by both the fine and imprisonment. The
city shall, in addition, be entitled to maintain an action for civil injunctive
relief, pursuant to SDCL Chapter 21-8.
(Prior Code, § 14-19-19.0102)  (Ord. 477, passed 2-1-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ZONING
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
416      1-6-2003    Granting a cable franchise
442      8-6-2007    Extension of cable franchise
466      4-4-2011    Granting a natural gas franchise
503      9-5-2017    Amendment to cable franchise
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
519      3-2-2020    Zoning amendment
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Reference Code Section
SDCL Reference            Code Section
Chapter 1-4               152.241
1-6-2                     152.210
Chapter 1-25              30.061
9-1-1                     10.02,
                          10.04
9-8-1                     30.035
9-8-1.1                   30.035
9-8-2                     30.036
9-8-3                     30.035
9-8-4                     30.037
9-8-5                     30.039
9-8-7                     30.038
9-8-8                     30.040
9-8-10                    30.041
9-8-11                    30.042
9-11-10                   30.064
Chapter 9-13              30.040
9-13-4.2                  30.036
9-13-13                   10.04
9-13-14.1                 30.037
9-13-14.2                 30.037
9-19-3                    70.999,
                          96.99
9-19-5                    30.060
9-19-6                    30.060
9-19-7                    30.061
9-19-7.1                  30.061
9-19-8                    30.061
9-19-9                    30.061
9-19-10                   30.035,
                          30.065
9-19-11                   30.065
9-19-13                   30.062
9-19-14.1                 30.063
9-19-15                   30.063
9-19-16                   30.063
9-19-17                   30.063
9-29-1                    152.004
9-29-7                    110.01
9-29-12                   90.07
9-33-4.1                  150.001
9-34-1                    112.60
Chapter 9-36              151.001
9-46-2.1 through 9-46-4.2 93.043
9-46-4 through 9-46-9     93.044
                          113.02,
                          113.05,
Chapter 10-45             113.21,
                          113.23,
                          113.99
                          113.03,
Chapter 10-46             113.05,
                          113.99
Chapter 10-52             113.01,
                          113.04
Chapter 10-52A            113.20,
                          113.22
Chapter 11-4              152.211,
                          152.241
11-4-8                    30.061
11-4-25                   151.040
Chapter 11-6              152.211
Chapter 21-8              152.999
Chapter 21-10             90.99
21-10-5                   91.20
Chapter 32-12             70.011
Chapter 32-17             70.009,
                          70.063
Chapter 32-18             70.062
Chapter 32-23             70.018
32-36-8                   93.006
34-18-22                  110.06
34-28-3                   91.01
Chapter 34A-6             111.20
Chapter 34A-11            111.20
35-1-1                    113.21
Chapter 35-2              110.03
35-2-6.1                  110.04
35-2-6.2                  110.04
35-2-10                   110.99
itle 35, Chapter 3        110.09
35-4-10                   110.01,
                          110.02
35-4-11                   110.01,
                          110.02
35-4-19                   35.05
35-4-81                   110.05
35-4-81.2                 110.05
36-16-1 et seq.           150.037
Title 45                  50.23 ,
                          111.20
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
1-1-1              30.001
1-1-2              30.002
1-1-3              30.003
1-1-4              30.004
1-2-1              30.015
1-2-2              30.016
1-2-3              30.017
1-2-4              30.018
1-2-5              30.019
1-2-6              30.020
1-2-7              30.021
1-2-8              30.022
1-2-9              30.023
1-3-1              35.01
1-3-2              35.02
1-3-3              35.03
1-3-4              35.04
1-3-5              35.05
1-3-6              35.06
1-3-7              35.07
1-4-1              33.01
1-4-2              33.02
1-4-3              33.03
2-1-1              31.01
2-2-1              31.02
2-3-1              31.03
2-4-1              31.04
3-1-1              150.001
3-1-2              150.002
3-1-3              150.003
3-1-4              150.004
3-1-5              150.005
3-1-6              150.006
3-1-7              150.007
3-1-8              150.008
3-1-9              150.009
4-1-1              150.035
4-1-2              150.036
4-1-3              150.037
5-1-1              94.001
5-1-2              94.002
5-1-3              94.003
5-1-4              94.004
5-1-5              94.005
5-2-1              94.020
5-2-2              94.021
5-2-3              94.022
5-2-4              94.023
5-3-1              94.035
5-3-2              94.036
5-3-3              94.037
5-3-4              94.038
5-4-1              94.050
5-4-2              94.051
5-4-3              94.052
5-4-4              94.053
5-4-5              94.054
5-4-6              94.055
5-4-7              94.056
5-4-8              94.057
6-1-1              34.01
6-1-2              34.02
6-1-3              34.03
6-2-1              34.15
6-2-2              34.16
6-3-1              112.01
6-3-2              112.02
6-3-3              112.03
6-3-4              112.04
6-3-5              112.05,
                   112.99
6-4-1              34.04
6-5-1              50.01
6-5-2              50.01
6-5-3              50.02
6-5-4              50.03
6-5-5              50.04
6-5-6              50.05
6-5-7              50.06
6-6-1              50.20
6-6-2              50.21
6-6-3              50.22
6-6-4              50.23
6-6-5              50.99
6-7-1              111.20
6-7-2              111.21
6-7-3              111.22
6-7-4              111.23
6-7-5              111.24
6-7-6              111.25
6-7-7              111.26
6-7-8              111.27
6-7-9              111.99
6-7-10             111.28
6-8-1              50.07
6-9-1              91.01,
                   91.02
6-9-2              91.03
6-9-3              91.04
6-9-4              91.05
6-9-5              91.06
6-10-1             92.01
6-10-2             92.02
6-10-3             92.03
6-10-4             92.04
6-10-5             92.99
6-11-1             96.01
6-11-2             96.02
6-11-3             96.03
6-11-4             96.04
6-11-5             96.05
6-11-6             96.99
6-11-8             96.06
6-12-1             92.15
6-12-2             92.16
6-12-3             92.17
6-12-4             92.18
6-12-5             92.19
6-12-6             92.20
6-12-7             92.21
6-12-8             92.22
6-12-9             92.23
6-12-10            92.24
6-13-1             90.55
6-13-2             90.56
6-13-3             90.57
6-13-4             90.58
6-13-5             90.59
6-13-6             90.60
6-13-7             90.61
6-13-8             90.62
6-13-9             90.63
6-13-10            90.64
6-13-11            90.65
6-14-1             95.01
6-14-2             95.02
6-14-3             95.03
6-14-4             95.04
6-14-5             95.05
6-14-6             95.06
6-14-7             95.07
6-14-8             95.08
6-14-9             95.09
6-14-10            95.10
6-14-11            95.11
6-14-12            95.12
6-14-13            95.13
6-14-14            95.14
6-14-15            95.15
6-15-1             150.020
6-15-2             150.021
6-15-3             150.022
6-16-1             32.01
6-16-2             32.02
6-16-3             32.03
6-16-4             32.04
6-16-5             32.05
6-16-6             32.06
6-16-7             32.07
6-16-8             32.08
6-16-9             32.09
6-16-10            32.10
6-16-11            32.11
6-16-12            32.12
6-16-13            32.13
6-16-14            32.14
6-16-15            32.15
6-16-16            32.16
6-16-17            32.17
6-16-18            32.18
7-1-1              112.55
7-1-2              112.56
7-1-3              112.57
7-1-4              112.58
7-1-5              112.59
7-1-6              112.60
7-1-7              112.61
7-1-8              112.62
7-2-1              112.20
7-3-1              90.01
7-3-2              90.02
7-3-3              90.03,
                   90.99
7-3-4              90.04
7-3-5              90.05
7-3-6              90.06
7-3-7              90.07
7-3-8              90.08
7-3-9              90.09
7-3-10             90.10
7-3-11             90.11
7-3-12             90.12
                   90.13,
7-3-13             90.25-
                   90.28,
                   90.99
7-5-1              111.01
7-5-2              111.02
7-5-3              111.03
7-5-4              111.04
7-5-5              111.05
7-5-6              111.06
7-5-7              111.07
7-5-8              111.99
7-6-1              73.25
7-6-2              73.26
7-6-3              73.27
7-6-4              73.28
7-7-1              112.35
7-7-3              112.36
7-7-4              112.37
7-7-5              112.38
7-7-6              112.39
7-7-7              112.99
8-1-1              130.01
8-1-2              130.02
8-1-3              130.03
8-1-4              130.04
8-2-1              130.20
8-2-2              130.21
8-3-1              130.35
8-3-2              130.36
8-3-3              130.37
8-3-4              130.38
8-3-5              130.39
8-3-6              130.40
8-3-7              130.41
8-3-8              130.42
8-4-1              90.40
8-4-2              90.41
8-4-3              90.42
8-4-4              90.43
8-5-1              94.070
8-5-2              94.071
8-5-3              94.999
8-6-1              93.001
8-6-2              93.002
8-6-3              93.003
8-6-4              93.004
8-6-5              93.005
8-6-6              93.006
8-6-7              93.007
8-6-8              93.008
8-6-9              93.009
8-6-10             93.010
8-6-11             93.011
8-6-12             93.999
8-7-1              91.20
                   131.01 –
8-7-2              131.04,
                   131.99
8-7-3              130.05
9-1-1              150.050
9-1-2              150.051
9-1-3              150.052
9-2-1              150.065
9-2-2              150.066
9-2-3              150.067
9-2-4              150.068
9-2-5              150.069
10-1-1             52.01
10-1-2             52.02
10-1-3             52.03
10-1-4             52.04
10-1-5             52.05
10-1-6             52.06
10-1-7             52.07
10-1-8             52.08
10-1-9             52.09
10-1-10            52.10
10-1-11            52.11
10-1-12            52.12
10-2-1             51.01
10-2-2             51.02
10-2-3             51.03
10-2-4             51.04
10-2-5             51.05
10-2-6             51.06
10-2-7             51.07
10-2-8             51.08
10-2-9             51.09
10-2-10            51.10
10-2-11            51.11
10-2-12            51.12
10-2-13            51.13
10-2-14            51.14
10-2-15            51.15
10-2-16            51.16
10-2-17            51.17
10-2-18            51.18
10-2-19            51.19
10-2-20            51.20
10-2-21            51.21
10-2-22            51.22
10-2-23            51.23
10-2-24            51.24
10-2-25            51.25
10-2-26            51.26
10-2-27            51.27
10-2-28            51.28
10-2-29            51.29
10-2-30            51.30
10-2-31            51.31
10-2-32            51.32
10-2-33            51.33
10-2-34            51.34
10-2-35            51.99
11-1-1             93.025
11-1-2             93.026
11-1-3             93.027
11-2-1             93.040
11-2-2             93.041
11-2-3             93.042
11-2-4             93.043
11-2-5             93.044
11-3-1             93.060
11-3-2             93.061
11-3-3             93.062
11-3-4             93.063
11-3-5             93.999
11-4-1             93.075
11-4-2             93.076
11-4-3             93.077
11-4-4             93.078
11-4-5             93.079
11-4-6             93.080
11-4-7             93.081
11-4-8             93.082
11-5-1             93.095
11-5-2             93.096
11-5-3             93.097
11-5-4             93.098
11-5-5             93.099
11-5-6             93.100
11-5-7             93.101
11-5-8             93.102
11-5-9             93.103
11-6-1             93.115
11-6-2             93.116
11-6-3             93.117
11-6-4             93.118
11-6-5             93.119
11-6-6             93.120
11-6-7             93.121
11-6-8             93.122
11-6-9             93.123
11-6-10            93.124
12-1-1             70.001
12-1-2             70.105
12-1-3             70.106
12-1-4             70.107
12-1-5             70.108
12-1-6             70.109
12-2-1             70.002
12-2-2             70.003
12-2-3             70.004
12-2-4             70.005
12-2-5             70.006
12-2-6             70.007
12-2-7             70.008
12-2-8             70.009
12-2-9             70.010
12-2-10            70.011
12-2-11            70.012
12-2-12            70.013
12-2-13            70.014
12-2-14            70.015
12-2-15            70.016
12-2-16            70.017
12-2-17            70.018
12-2-18            70.019
12-2-19            70.020
12-2-20            70.021
12-2-21            70.022
12-2-22            70.023
12-2-23            70.024
12-2-24            70.025
12-2-25            70.026
12-2-26            70.027
12-2-27            70.028
12-2-28            70.029
12-2-29            70.030
12-2-30            70.031
12-2-31            70.032
12-2-32            70.033
12-2-33            70.034
12-2-34            70.035
12-2-35            70.036
12-2-36            70.037
12-2-37            70.038
12-2-38            70.039
12-2-39            70.040
12-2-40            70.999
12-3-1             71.01
12-3-2             71.02
12-3-3             71.03
12-3-4             71.04
12-3-5             71.05
12-3-6             71.06
12-3-7             71.07
12-3-8             71.08
12-3-9             71.09
12-3-10            71.10
12-3-11            71.11
12-3-12            71.12
12-3-13            71.13
12-3-14            71.14
12-3-15            71.15
12-3-16            71.99
12-4-1             70.090
12-4-2             70.091
12-4-3             70.092
12-4-4             70.093
12-5-1             Ch. 74, Schd. I
12-5-2             Ch. 74, Schd. I
12-6-1             72.01
12-6-2             72.02
12-6-3             72.03
12-6-4             72.04
12-6-5             72.05
12-6-6.1           72.06
12-6-6.2           72.07
12-6-6.3           72.08
12-6-6.4           72.09
12-6-6.5           72.10
12-6-6.6           72.11
12-6-6.7           72.12
12-6-6.8           72.13
12-7-1             70.055
12-7-2             70.056
12-7-3             70.057
12-7-4             70.058
12-7-5             70.059
12-7-7             70.060
12-7-8             70.061
12-7-9             70.062
12-7-10            70.063
12-7-11            70.064
12-7-12            70.065
12-7-13            70.066
12-7-14            70.067
12-7-15            70.068
12-7-16            70.069
12-7-17            70.070
12-7-18            70.071
12-7-19            70.072
12-7-20            70.073
12-7-21            70.074
12-7-22            70.075
12-7-23            70.076
12-7-24            70.077,
                   70.999
12-8-1             73.01
12-8-2             73.02
12-8-3             73.03
12-8-4             73.04
12-8-5             73.05
12-8-6             73.06
12-8-7             73.07
12-8-8             73.08
12-8-9             73.09
12-8-10            73.10
12-8-11            73.11
12-8-12            73.12
12-8-13            73.13
12-8-14            73.14
12-8-15            73.99
12-9-1             72.25
12-9-2             72.26
12-9-3             72.27
12-9-4             72.28
12-9-5             72.29
12-9-6             72.30
12-9-7             72.31
13-1-1             10.99,
                   70.999
14-1               152.001
14-2-2.0101        152.002
14-2-2.0102        152.003
14-3-3.0101        152.004
14-3-3.0102        152.005
14-4-4.0101        152.020
14-4-4.0102        152.021
14-4-4.0103        152.022
14-5-5.0101        152.006
14-5-5.0102        152.007
14-6-6.0101        152.035
14-6-6.0102        152.036
14-6-6.0103        152.037
14-6-6.0104        152.038
14-6-6.0105        152.039
14-6-6.0106        152.040
14-7-7.0101        152.055
14-8-8.0101        152.070
14-8-8.0102        152.071
14-8-8.0103        152.072
14-8-8.0104        152.073
14-8-8.0105        152.074
14-8-8.0106        152.075
14-8-8.0107        152.076
14-9-9.0101        152.090
14-9-9.0102        152.091
14-9-9.0103        152.092
14-9-9.0104        152.093
14-9-9.0105        152.094
14-9-9.0106        152.095
14-9-9.0107        152.096
14-10-10.0101      152.110
14-10-10.0102      152.111
14-10-10.0103      152.112
14-10-10.0104      152.113
14-10-10.0105      152.114
14-10-10.0106      152.115
14-10-10.0107      152.116
14-11-11.0101      152.130
14-11-11.0102      152.131
14-11-11.0103      152.132
14-11-11.0104      152.133
14-11-11.0105      152.134
14-11-11.0106      152.135
14-11-11.0107      152.136
14-11-11.0108      152.137
14-11-11.0109      152.138
14-12-12.0101      152.150
14-12-12.0102      152.151
14-12-12.0103      152.152
14-12-12.0104      152.153
14-12-12.0105      152.154
14-12-12.0106      152.155
14-12-12.0107      152.156
14-13-13.0101      152.170
14-13-13.0102      152.171
14-13-13.0103      152.172
14-13-13.0104      152.173
14-13-13.0105      152.174
14-13-13.0106      152.175
14-14-14.0101      152.190
14-14-14.0102      152.191
14-14-14.0103      152.192
14-14-14.0104      152.193
14-14-14.0105      152.194
14-14-14.0106      152.195
14-14-14.0107      152.196
14-14-14.0108      152.197
14-14-14.0109      152.198
14-14-14.0110      152.199
14-15-15.0101      152.210
14-15-15.0102      152.212
14-16-16.0101      152.225
14-16-16.0102      152.226
14-16-16.0103      152.227
14-16-16.0104      152.228
14-17-17.0101      152.240
14-18-18.0101      152.241
14-19-19.0101      152.999
14-19-19.0102      152.999
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
192      2-3-2020    35.35
202      2-1-2021    35.35
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         35.20 –
                     35.24
343      11-6-1989   96.20 –
                     96.99
335      12-4-1989   152.023
367      6-6-1994    94.039
368      6-6-1994    93.045
375      6-5-1995    93.046
385      9-2-1997    93.046
                     151.001 –
                     151.011,
                     151.025-
                     151.027,
400A     8-6-2001    151.040,
                     151.041,
                     151.055-
                     151.060,
                     151.075-
                     151.079
410      7-1-2002    52.13
414      10-7-2002   52.25 –
                     52.32
416      1-6-2003    TSO Table I
                     113.20 –
424      8-3-2004    113.24,
                     113.99
                     113.01 –
434      8-1-2005    113.05,
                     113.99
442      8-6-2007    TSO Table I
466      4-4-2011    TSO Table I
                     152.001 –
                     152.007,
                     152.020-
                     152.023,
                     152.035-
                     152.040,
                     152.055,
                     152.070-
                     152.076,
                     152.090-
                     152.096,
                     152.110-
                     152.116,
477      2-1-2013    152.130-
                     152.138,
                     152.150-
                     152.156,
                     152.170-
                     152.175,
                     152.190-
                     152.199,
                     152.210-
                     152.212,
                     152.225-
                     152.228,
                     152.240,
                     152.241,
                     152.999
                     150.001,
483      1-6-2014    150.020-
                     150.022
499      10-3-2016   72.06 –
                     72.13
502      8-7-2017    91.01,
                     91.02
503      9-5-2017    TSO Table I
512      6-3-2019    51.10
513      7-1-2019    91.01
514      9-3-2019    52.11
517      11-4-2019   71.02
519      3-2-2020    TSO Table II
                     110.01 –
520      4-6-2020    110.09,
                     110.99
523      10-12-2020  51.27,
                     52.11
525      12-28-2020  95.01 –
                     95.17
                    
 
 
