TOWN OF WINNSBORO, SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 93, passed 11-21-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
Mayor                                   John McMeekin
Mayor Pro Tem                           Demetrius Chatman, District #3
Council Members                         Danny Miller, District #1
                                       Janice Bartell-Prather, District #2
                                       Demetrius Chatman, District #3
                                       Jae Burroughs, District #4
Town Manager                            Jason Taylor
Assistant Town Manager                  Chris Clauson
Finance Director/Assistant Town Manager Kathy Belton
Clerk                                   Patti L. Davis
Town Attorney                           Scott Elliott
 
CHARTER
Section
   New Charter, March 3, 1903
Editor’s note:
   A prior Charter went into effect December 19, 1886 and continued in force
until the Charter of March 7, 1903 was adopted. That Charter placed Winnsboro
under the general law for the government of municipalities. A petition to
accomplish this was submitted to the qualified electors of the town on February
5, 1902.
NEW CHARTER, MARCH 3, 1903
The State of South Carolina)
    Executive Department)
   By Secretary of State
   Whereas, the Town of Winnsboro in the State of South Carolina, heretofore
incorporated, is desirous of surrendering its Charter and accepting
incorporation under the provisions of Article 2, Chapter 49 of Volume I of the
Code of Laws of 1902. And whereas, the Town Council of the Town has submitted
the question to vote of the qualified electors and has certified the result,
accompanied by the sworn returns of the managers of the said election, by which
it appears that the vote was in favor of surrendering the Charter and accepting
incorporation under that Article.
   Now, I, J.T. Gantt, Secretary of State, by virtue of the authority in me
vested by Article 2, Chapter 49 of Volume I of the Code of Laws of 1902, do
hereby certify that the Town of Winnsboro is duly incorporated with privileges,
powers and immunities, and subject to the limitations prescribed by that
Article 2, Chapter 40 of Volume I.
   Given under my Hand and Seal of the State of South Carolina this the third
day of March, 1903, and 127th year of the Independence of the United States of
America.
J.T. Gantt,
Secretary of State
   Seal of the State of South Carolina
   Recorded in the office of R.M.C., for Fairfield County this 7th day of
March, 1903, in Book of Charters, Page 76.
   JNO. W. LYLES, R.M.C.
(1995 Code, Supplementary Facts, New Charter)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Designation and citation
   
10.02   Continuation of existing ordinances
   
10.03   Definitions
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Catchlines of sections
   
10.06   Effect of repeal of ordinances
   
10.07   Severability of parts of code
   
10.08   Amendments
   
10.09   Altering code
   
10.10   Liability for violations
   
10.11   Prosecution for different penalties
 
   
10.99   General penalty; continuing violations
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION AND CITATION.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated “The Code of Ordinances of the Town of Winnsboro,
South Carolina” or the “town code” and may be so cited.
(1995 Code, § 1-3041)
§ 10.02 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, as far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the adoption hereof, shall be considered as
a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 10.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND or OR. The word AND may be read as OR, and OR as AND where the sense
requires it.
   BOND. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
   CLERK. Whenever the word is used, the term shall be construed to mean Clerk
to Council.
   CORPORATE LIMITS, CORPORATION LIMITS or TOWN LIMITS. The legal boundary of
the Town of Winnsboro.
   COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council of this town in council assembled.
   COUNTY. The County of Fairfield in the State of South Carolina.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
   KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Include persons, firms, associations, corporations,
clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant,
agent or employee.
   MANAGER. The Town Manager of this town.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of this town.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Winnsboro.
   NAME OF OFFICER. Whenever the name of an officer is given, it shall be
construed as though the words “of the Town of Winnsboro” were added.
   OATH. The word OATH shall be construed to include an affirmation in all
cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an OATH, and in
those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM
and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICERS, AGENTS, THINGS AND PLACES OF THE TOWN. Unless a contrary intention
appears, the officer, agents, employees and other persons, things and places
situated in the town or employed by or appertaining to the town or subject to
the jurisdiction thereof.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
   PERSON. Extends and applies to associations, clubs, societies, firms,
partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property except real property
as herein described.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. Place or places.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent
thereto.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   RESIDENCE. The place adopted by a person as his or her place of habitation,
and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or she has the intention of
returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place
where the person sleeps shall be deemed his or her RESIDENCE.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic.
   SEAL. The town or corporate seal.
   SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
   SIGNATURES or SUBSCRIPTIONS. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   STREET. Avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts,
bridges and approaches thereto and all other public thoroughfares in the town,
and shall mean the entire width thereof between opposed abutting property
lines. It shall be construed to include a sidewalk or foot path, unless the
contrary is expressed or unless the construction would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the Town Council.
   TENANT, OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of the
building or land, either alone or with others.
   TOWN, CITY, CORPORATION. Whenever the words are used, they shall be
construed as if the words “of Winnsboro, South Carolina” followed them.
   WEEK. Shall be construed to mean seven days.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING.  Include any representation of words, letters or
figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(1995 Code, § 1-3042)
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   As used in this code and all ordinances, in all cases in which the spirit
and intent may require it, the following shall apply.
   (A)   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, and if the last
day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, that shall be excluded.
   (B)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be
construed to authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the
required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate
otherwise.
   (C)   Gender.  A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as
males.
   (D)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it is held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the
subject matter than the general provision imposed by this code, the provision
imposing the greater restriction of regulation shall be deemed to be
controlling.
   (E)   Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words
and phrases and others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
   (F)   Number.  A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing, and
the plural shall include the singular number.
   (G)   Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
(1995 Code, § 1-3042)
§ 10.05 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and
shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of the sections, nor as any part of
the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
(1995 Code, § 1-3043)
§ 10.06 EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action
arising under the ordinance.
(1995 Code, § 1-3044)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   The sections, divisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this
code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, division or
section of this code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment
or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality shall
not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs,
divisions and sections of this code.
(1995 Code, § 1-3045)
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances, which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code of ordinances, may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
herein, or in the case of repealed chapters, sections and divisions or any part
thereof by subsequent ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from
the code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby and the subsequent
ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be
prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances until the time that this code
of ordinances and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a
new code of ordinances.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section: “That Section
                of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Winnsboro, South Carolina,
is hereby amended to read as follows: [. . .].” The new provisions shall then
be set out in full as enacted.
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language may be used: “That the Code of Ordinances,
Town of Winnsboro, South Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a section to be
numbered                  , which section reads as follows: [. . .].” The new
section shall then be set out in full as enacted.
   (D)   In lieu of the foregoing paragraph, when the governing authority
desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature embracing a
subject not previously existing in the code, but which the governing authority
desires to incorporate into the code, a provision in substantially the
following language may be made a part of the ordinance: “It is the intention of
the Council, and it is hereby ordained, that the provisions of this ordinance
shall become and be made part of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Winnsboro, South Carolina, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered
to accomplish that intention.”
   (E)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
(1995 Code, § 1-3046)
§ 10.09 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or
deletions any part or portion of this code, or to insert or tamper with the
code in any manner whatsoever, which will cause the law of the town to be
misrepresented thereby. Any person, firm or corporation violating this section
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1995 Code, § 1-3047)
§ 10.10 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of this code by any officer, agent or other person
acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or
organization while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment,
shall, in every case, also be deemed to be a violation by the corporation,
association or organization.
   (B)   Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any
corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association
or organization for the violation by it of any provision of this code, where
the violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or
order of any person.
§ 10.11 PROSECUTION FOR DIFFERENT PENALTIES.
   In all cases where the same offense may be created by different clauses or
sections of the ordinances of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance or resolution any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in
the code, ordinance or resolution the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
provided therefor, the violation of any provision of this code or any provision
of this code or any ordinance or resolution shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $300 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. Each day any violation
of any provision of this code or of the ordinance or resolution shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty hereinabove provided, any condition caused
or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this code or any
ordinance or resolution shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated as
provided by law, and each day that the condition continues shall be regarded as
a new and separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 1-3048)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate limits established
   
11.02   History of town/incorporation
   
11.03   Historical sketch
   
11.04   Districts
Cross-reference:
   Town seal generally, see §
31.23
§ 11.01 CORPORATE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The map of the town showing the territorial limits thereof is hereby
designated as the official map of the town, and the corporate limits as known
thereon are declared to be the true and correct corporate limits of the town,
including all annexations made through and including the date of adoption of
this code.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c7bb91183871eaf6cd7ca19e6bdb330ff82b6a75/
IMAGES/0-0-0-18.jpg]
 
(1995 Code, § 1-3049)
§ 11.02 HISTORY OF TOWN/INCORPORATION.
   The Town of Winnsboro was initially incorporated on December 30, 1832. The
Charter of March 3, 1903 placed it under the general law for the government of
municipalities. On January 20, 1976, the town adopted the Council-Manager form
of government pursuant to the Home Rule Statute, Act. No. 283 of 1975, being
S.C. Code §§ 5-13-10 through 5-13-100. The Certificate of Incorporation was
issued by the Secretary of State on January 23, 1976.
(1995 Code, Preface)
§ 11.03 HISTORICAL SKETCH.
   The following is taken from the preface to the Ordinances printed in 1886.
   We find the first mention of Winnsboro in the Acts of General Assembly, is
on 8th March, 1785, in IV Stats., 652, in an “An Act for establishing Fairs and
Markets in the Town of Winnsborough.”
   This Act recites:
   “Whereas, John Winn, Richard Winn and John Vanderhorst, did, by their humble
petition to the honorable, the Senate and House of Representatives of this
State, set forth that, at the special instance and request of a number of the
inhabitants of the district situate between Board and Catawba rivers, they had
laid out a town by the name of Winnsborough in the said district, on land their
property, and had forever given and granted to the public of this State the
streets in the said town, and also several lots of land for a church and market
place, agreeable to a plan to the said petition annexed; and in order to
encourage the trade and commerce of that country, the said John Winn, Richard
Winn and John Vanderhorst, prayed that a market place might be by law
established in the said town, and public fairs kept and held there at least
twice every year, for exposing to sales horses, cattle, grain, hemp, flax,
tobacco, indigo and all sorts of produce and merchandise, and that such market
and fairs be invested with such liberties and privileges as to the same
commonly belong or appertain.”
   This Act then provides for:
      1.    Public markets to be kept in the town;
      2.    Two fairs to be kept annually, in May and October;
      3.    Inhabitants to appoint directors of the fairs and a clerk of the
market;
      4.    Directors to hold court of piepowder during the fairs; and
      5.    No person can be arrested at these fairs, except for treason.
   On March 27, 1787 (V Stats., 11), an Act was passed “for enlarging the Town
of Winnsborough.” The boundaries of the town by this plan were a street not
named three squares north of College Street, Walnut Street on East, Moultrie
Street on south, and Garden Street on west.
   By authority of an Act passed December 19, 1916 (VIII Stats., 280), the
boundaries of the town were reduced on October 30, 1825, to Fairfield Street as
the northern boundary, and the northeast portion of the town lying north of
College Street and east of Congress Street was excluded as being private
property. On December 20, 1832, the town as such was duly incorporated as
“Winnsborough.” (VI Stats., 458.)
   But Winnsboro was a village of note before the Revolution.
   In Tarleton’s Campaigns (London Ed., 1787,) we find the town frequently
mentioned as Wynnesborough. Also in a map by William Faden, “Geographer to the
King,” compiled in 1787 from maps of the British Engineer officers, we find the
same name given. Wynnes is the prefix of six other towns in the United States,
and all are pronounced Winns.
   The general opinion is that the place was named after some member of the
Winn family, of which Richard, John and Minor Winn were well known at the time
of the Revolution.
   Tarleton says that Lord Cornwallis after learning of the defeat of Ferguson
at King’s Mountain selected Wynnesborough as a place for his encampment in
October, 1780, it presenting the most advantages, especially for abundant
supplies from the surrounding country. He remained here until January, 1781.
   When here Lord Cornwallis’ marquee was near the oak in front of Mount Zion
College. After inquiry, General Sherman in February, 1865, placed his marquee
upon the same spot.
   During the Revolution a large military hospital was situated upon the
premises now occupied by Mr. George H. McMaster and was used by both armies in
turn. The British dead were buried in his front yard, and the Americans in rear
extending to where the tombs of Captain James Mitchell and of Lt.
Col........and the Tumulus over his horse now are.
   Mills in his Statistics says that in 1826 Winnsborough is one of the most
pleasant and flourishing villages in the State; and that there are few if any
healthier places in the State.
   The present name of Winnsboro appears for the first time in an Act (XIII
Stats., 512), amending the Charter, December 19, 1866. This charter is now in
force, but expires on December 19 of this year, 1886.
   This town is traversed by the C.C. & A.R.R., two telegraph lines, has Bank,
Court House, Jail, Town Hall and Market. It also has a well organized Fire
Department (the best in the state in proportion to the population) and the
streets are well lighted. It has eight churches in its limits. Also the Mount
Zion Collegiate Institute, chartered in 1785 as a college with power to confer
degrees, under the patronage of the Mount Zion Society, incorporated in 1777.
   The official Post name of the place is Winnsborough. There is a town in
Louisiana and another in Texas of the same name and both are named after this,
our town.
   The present population is about 1,900, and there is a large population in
the suburbs.
(1995 Code, Historical Sketch)
§ 11.04 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In compliance with the United States Constitution, the Constitution of
this state, S.C. Code § 4-9-90, as amended, and the United States Voting Rights
Act of 1965, as amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1973 et seq., the Town Council has
determined to realign the electoral districts for the election of members of
Council in accordance with the Federal Decennial Census of 2020.
   (B)   There presently exist four single-member districts for the election of
Town Council members.
   (C)   This section is for the purpose of defining the boundaries of these
four single-member election districts.
   (D)   The redefining of the district boundaries is based upon the 2020
Census for redistricting purposes in order that the population of the districts
shall comply with the requirements set forth in the Voting Rights Act of 1965,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1973 et seq.
   (E)   The pertinent demographic data in reference to the proposed districts
is attached to Ordinance 64 as Exhibit A and is incorporated herein by
reference as if fully set forth. The four single- member election districts for
the election of Town Council members are hereby redistricted to be depicted on
the map of the town attached to Ordinance 64 as Exhibit B and incorporated
herein by reference as if fully set forth.
   (F)   The Town Manager is authorized and directed to take administrative
action to promulgate and execute any procedures and policies as may be
necessary or desirable to carry into effect and implement the redistricted
single-member election districts provided for in this section, including the
elections required thereby, and in accord with any directions, suggestions or
objections of the Civil Rights Division, U.S. Department of Justice, after
submittal to it of this section.
   (G)   This section shall become effective upon adoption by the Council of
this town.
(Ord. 071712, passed 7-17-2012; Ord. 64, passed 1-3-2023)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNMENT
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
33.   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
      
34.   PURCHASING
      
35.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
36.   TOWN POLICIES; PERSONNEL
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENT
Section
Form of Government
   
30.001   Form of government adopted
Governing Authority
   
30.015   Council
   
30.016   Mayor pro tem
   
30.017   Compensation
   
30.018   Oath of Mayor and Council members
Meetings of Council
   
30.030   Date and time
   
30.031   Conference sessions
   
30.032   Quorum and rules of order
   
30.033   Voting requirements
   
30.034   Minutes of meetings
   
30.035   Appearance of citizens
   
30.036   Agenda
   
30.037   Special committees
Ordinances
   
30.050   Ordinances required
   
30.051   Form of ordinances
   
30.052   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.053   Introduction of resolutions
   
30.054   Enactment of ordinances
   
30.055   Adoption of resolutions
   
30.056   Notice of adoption
Elections
   
30.070   Terms of office
   
30.071   Election of Mayor and Council members
   
30.072   Transfer of authority for conducting municipal elections to county
   
30.073   Nonpartisan elections
   
30.074   Time of elections; notice
   
30.075   Time of taking office; contested election
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
§ 30.001 FORM OF GOVERNMENT ADOPTED.
   It is ordained by the governing body of the town in council duly assembled
this January 6, 1976, that the Council-Manager form of municipal government,
with a Mayor and four Council members with nonpartisan election by petition for
four-year terms, as provided in S.C. Code §§ 5-15-10 et seq., is hereby adopted
for the town to be effective on May 1, 1976 or as soon thereafter as prescribed
by state law.
(1995 Code, § 1-1001) (Ord. passed 1-20-1976)
GOVERNING AUTHORITY
§ 30.015 COUNCIL.
   All legislative and administrative powers of the town and the determination
of all matters of policy shall be vested in the Town Council, with each member,
including the Mayor, having one vote.
(1995 Code, § 1-2001)
§ 30.016 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   The Council shall, at the first meeting of the newly constituted
Council after any general election for Town Council, elect one of its members
as Mayor Pro Tempore for a term of two years.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor Pro Tempore to act as Mayor during
the absence or disability of the Mayor or in case of a vacancy in the Office of
Mayor.
(1995 Code, § 1-2002)
§ 30.017 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The annual salary of the Mayor and Council members shall be as
determined by the Council.
   (B)   No ordinance changing these salaries shall become effective until the
date of commencement of the terms of the Mayor and Council members elected at
the next general election following any change. At that time the salary becomes
effective for all Council members.
   (C)   The Mayor and Council members may also receive payment for actual
expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties.
(1995 Code, § 1-2003)
§ 30.018 OATH OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The Mayor and Council Members, before entering upon the duties of their
respective offices, shall take the following oath:
      “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am duly qualified, according to
the Constitution of the state, to exercise the duties of the office to which I
have been elected and that I will, to the best of my ability, discharge the
duties thereof, and preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of this state
and of the United States.
      “As Mayor (or Council Member) of the Town of Winnsboro, I will equally,
fairly, and impartially, to the best of my ability, and skill, exercise the
trust reposed in me, and will use my best endeavor to preserve the peace and
carry into effect according to law the purposes for which I have been elected.
So help me God.”
(1995 Code, § 1-2004)
Constitutional reference:
   Oath prescribed for officials, see Art. VI, Sec. 5
Statutory reference:
   Statutory oath, see S.C. Code § 5-15-150
   Structure, organization, duties, powers and functions of the Council, see
S.C. Code § 5-9-40
MEETINGS OF COUNCIL
§ 30.030 DATE AND TIME.
   (A)   Regular meetings of Council shall be held at 6:15 p.m. on the first
and third Tuesdays in each month unless changed by a majority of vote of
members present at any regular or special meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings of Council may be held on the call of the Mayor or of
a majority of the members. Notice of a special meeting shall be given
immediately to all available members and the news media by the Manager.
   (C)   All regular and special meetings of Council shall be open to the
public.
(1995 Code, § 1-3001)
§ 30.031 CONFERENCE SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Council may have conference meetings as permitted by the State
Freedom of Information Act and this code at the times and in the places as may
be deemed necessary and in the public interest by the Mayor or any member of
Council.
   (B)   No formal vote shall be taken upon any matter under discussion at this
conference, but an informal polling of Council may be made if desired by any
member of Council.
   (C)   The Manager may, if time permits, give notice to the news media that a
conference meeting will be held pursuant to law without stating the specific
matters to be discussed. When advance notice is not given, the Manager may give
notice of the meeting after it has been held.
   (D)   No vote of Council shall be necessary to call a conference meeting.
(1995 Code, § 1-3002)
Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see S.C. Code §§ 30-4-10 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   The previous codification contained the following Editorial Note: Conference
sessions and executive sessions held in accordance with the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act are authorized.
Op. Atty. Gen., unnumbered, July 29, 1976.
§ 30.032 QUORUM AND RULES OF ORDER.
   Three Council members serving shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of
business at any meeting. The Mayor is considered as a Council member for this
purpose. The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside, except that in the
absence of both, the members present shall elect a presiding member. Except as
otherwise required by state law or ordinance, all proceedings of the Mayor and
Council shall be governed by its rules and in accordance with the agenda.
(1995 Code, § 1-3003)
§ 30.033 VOTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All actions of Council shall be by majority vote of members present at
a public meeting.
   (B)   Every member of Council present shall vote on every question except
when required to refrain from voting by state law.
   (C)   The vote on every question shall be by voice vote unless a roll call
vote is requested by any member and the vote by name shall be recorded in the
Council minutes by the Clerk.
   (D)   No member of Council may leave the Council chamber while in public
session without permission of the presiding officer.
   (E)   Any member of the Council may, if he or she desires, have his or her
reasons for voting for or against any measure recorded in the minutes.
   (F)   No member of Council shall vote on any question of a private nature in
which he or she is personally or pecuniarily interested.
(1995 Code, § 1-3004)
§ 30.034 MINUTES OF MEETINGS.
   The Clerk shall keep the minutes of all public meetings of Council which
shall be a matter of permanent public record. At each Council meeting, the
minutes of the previous meeting shall be presented for approval. Minutes shall
not be considered the official record of a meeting until approved by Council.
Any member of Council desiring to express a position on a matter voted upon by
Council in the minutes may do so by presenting the position in writing to Mayor
and Council not later than the next regular meeting.
(1995 Code, § 1-3005)
§ 30.035 APPEARANCE OF CITIZENS.
   (A)   Public comments. During a period of 30 minutes the Mayor or presiding
officer may recognize any citizen of the municipality or others who have
standing in the municipality at any regular meeting without being on the agenda
concerning any municipal matter, with the exception of personnel matters.
   (B)   Public hearing.  Any citizen of the municipality or others who have
standing regarding the topic of the public hearing shall be entitled to an
appearance before Council at a “called public hearing.”
   (C)   Presenters/petitioners. Any citizen of the municipality or others who
have standing in the municipality shall be entitled to an appearance before
Council at any regular meeting concerning any municipal matter with the
exception of personnel matters. Persons desiring to speak must notify the Town
Manager prior to 12:00 noon on the Friday preceding the Council meeting to be
placed on the agenda. Presenters/petitioners must provide their name, address
and matter to be discussed.
   (D)   Sign-up for public comments and/or public hearing. At least ten
minutes prior to the commencement of a Town Council meeting, a potential
speaker, who is not already a presenter/petitioner appearing on the agenda,
wishing to appear before Council must place his or her name, address and matter
to be discussed on the public comments or public hearing list. The list shall
be maintained by the Clerk to Council. Sign-ups for public comments and public
hearings will be on a first-come, first-served basis. No names will be added to
either list once the lists are given to the Mayor or presiding officer.
   (E)   Appearing before Council. When recognized by the Mayor or presiding
officer, the speaker shall approach the podium and give his or her name and
address in an audible tone of voice for the records, state the subject he or
she wishes to address, and state whom he or she is representing (group,
organization and the like), if applicable.
   (F)   Time limit. Any speaker appearing before Council for public comments
or at a public hearing shall limit his or her remarks to three minutes. The
Clerk to Council will be the timekeeper and will notify the Mayor or presiding
officer when a speaker’s time has expired. All remarks made by the speaker
shall be addressed to Council as a whole and not to any individual member of
Council. No profanity or personal attacks will be permitted; the speaker will
forfeit time as a result of either.
   (G)   Other. No person other than members of Council and the speaker shall
be permitted to enter into any discussion, either directly or through a member
of Council, without the permission of the Mayor or presiding officer.
Otherwise, such behavior by those in attendance may cause cancellation of
public comments or public hearing. The purpose of addressing Council is to
allow Council members to hear the opinions of citizens and is not intended to
afford the opportunity to engage in a debate or dialogue; therefore, no reply
or rebuttal by Council members is required.
(1995 Code, § 1-3006) (Ord. 071806, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 30.036 AGENDA.
   (A)   Matters to be considered by Council at regular meeting shall be placed
on a written agenda prepared by the Manager. Any additional items desired for
inclusion on the agenda shall be presented to the Manager not later than 12:00
noon on the Friday preceding the Council meeting.
   (B)   The order of the agenda shall be as follows:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Reading and approval of the minutes of the previous meeting;
      (3)   Special reports/presentations;
      (4)   Adoption of ordinances and resolutions;
      (5)   Manager’s report;
      (6)   Old business;
      (7)   New business; and
      (8)   Adjournment.
(1995 Code, § 1-3007)
§ 30.037 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Council may appoint a special committee to assist in or hold a public
hearing for Council at any time upon any matter pending before it. Minutes or
reports of hearings held by special committees shall be filed with the Manager
as public records.
(1995 Code, § 1-3008)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.050 ORDINANCES REQUIRED.
   (A)   In addition to other acts required by law to be done by ordinance,
those acts of the Town Municipal Council shall be by ordinances which:
      (1)   Adopt or amend the administrative code of ordinances, or establish,
alter or abolish any town department, office or agency;
      (2)   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation in which a fine or other penalty is imposed for violations;
      (3)   Adopt budgets or levy taxes, except as otherwise provided with
respect to the property tax levied by adoption of a budget, pursuant to public
notice;
      (4)   Grant, renew or extend franchises;
      (5)   Authorize the borrowing of money;
      (6)   Sell or lease or contract to sell or lease any lands of the
municipality; and
      (7)   Amend or repeal any ordinance described in divisions (A)(1) through
(6) above.
   (B)   In matters other than those referred to in this section, Council may
act either by ordinance or resolution.
(1995 Code, § 1-3021) (Ord. 011607H, passed 1-16-2007)
§ 30.051 FORM OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the
form required for final adoption which shall include:
      (1)   A title briefly describing the content;
      (2)   Findings, reasons or basis for the ordinance, if desired and
appropriate;
      (3)   An enacting clause;
      (4)   Citation of any ordinance repealed;
      (5)   The provisions of the ordinance including section numbers, if the
ordinance is to be codified or amends an existing codified ordinance;
      (6)   The effective date of the ordinance;
      (7)   The name of the person requesting introduction of the ordinance;
      (8)   The approval of the Town Attorney as to form and the assignment of
an ordinance number; and
      (9)   Space for the signatures of the Mayor or presiding member of
Council and the Town Clerk attesting notice, if required, and adoption.
   (B)   Written resolutions shall be in a similar form as deemed appropriate
by the Town Attorney.
(1995 Code, § 1-3022)
§ 30.052 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   An ordinance may be proposed by any member of Council. A proposed
ordinance shall be referred to the Town Attorney for approval as to form.
   (B)   The Town Attorney shall render assistance in the preparation of
notices and ordinances. After an ordinance is in proper form and required
notices have been given, the Town Attorney shall send the ordinance to the
Manager to be held for public inspection.
   (C)   An ordinance shall be deemed to be introduced when its title is read
during a public meeting of Council.
(1995 Code, § 1-3023)
§ 30.053 INTRODUCTION OF RESOLUTIONS.
   A voice motion of a member of Council shall be considered to be the
introduction of an oral resolution which shall require no written record other
than a notation of the secretary in the Council minutes. A resolution proposed
in writing shall be introduced in the same manner as an ordinance.
(1995 Code, § 1-3024)
§ 30.054 ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   An ordinance to levy a tax, adopt a budget, appropriate funds, grant a
franchise, license on right to use or occupy a public street or public property
for commercial purposes shall be complete in the form in which it is finally
passed, and in that form remain on file with the Manager for public inspection
at least one week before final adoption.
   (B)   No ordinance shall be adopted until it shall have been read at two
regular meetings held on two separate days with at least six days between each
reading.
   (C)   Emergency ordinances may be adopted on one reading without notice or
hearing by affirmative vote of two-thirds vote of members present. An emergency
ordinance may not levy taxes, relate to a franchise or a service rate and shall
expire automatically on the sixty-first day following enactment.
   (D)   The introduction and reading of any ordinance, shall be by the reading
of the title only unless full reading is requested by a member of Council.
   (E)   After the introduction of an ordinance, any member of Council may
request a public hearing which may be held at any time designated by the Mayor
and Council prior to final adoption.
   (F)   Upon final adoption by vote of Council, and unless otherwise required,
an ordinance shall be signed by the Mayor or presiding member and attested by
the Clerk, who shall affix the town seal and file the original in the ordinance
book.
(1995 Code, § 1-3025)
§ 30.055 ADOPTION OF RESOLUTIONS.
   Written or oral resolutions may be adopted on one reading unless a public
hearing is set by a majority of the members of Council present.
(1995 Code, § 1-3026)
§ 30.056 NOTICE OF ADOPTION.
   After the adoption of any ordinance, notice of the adoption shall be posted
on the public bulletin at the Town Hall, and the ordinance shall be available
for public inspection in the Town Hall.
(1995 Code, § 1-3027)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of ordinances, see S.C. Code §§ 5-7-250 through 5-7-280
ELECTIONS
§ 30.070 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor and members of Council shall be elected for terms of four years.
Commencing with the 1991 general municipal election, Council members shall be
elected from Districts 1 and 3, and commencing with the 1993 general municipal
election, Council members shall be elected from Districts 2 and 4. The
districts referred to in this section are those set forth and designated upon
the map and census data in §
30.071.
(1995 Code, § 1-8001) (Ord. 01-17-89B, passed 2-7-1989)
§ 30.071 ELECTION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected from the town at large, and one member of
Council shall be elected from each of the four districts set forth and
designated upon the map and census and population data prepared by the Research
and Statistical Services Division of the State Budget and Control Board, all of
which is attached to Ordinance 071712 (§
11.04) and incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   Candidates seeking election to Council from one of the four districts
must be residents of that district and if elected, must continue to be a
resident of the district for the entire term of office.
(1995 Code, § 1-8002) (Ord. 01-17-89B, passed 2-7-1989)
§ 30.072 TRANSFER OF AUTHORITY FOR CONDUCTING MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS TO COUNTY.
   (A)   The town desires to transfer all authority for conducting municipal
elections to the County Voter Registration and Election Commission apart from
the following: that the town will continue to accept candidate filings,
including but not limited to notices of candidacy, candidacy pledges and
nomination petitions.
   (B)   All authority for the conducting of municipal elections is hereby
transferred to the Voter Registration and Election Commission for the county in
the following particulars:
      (1)   The County Voter Registration and Election Commission shall
advertise municipal elections, prepare and distribute ballots and election
materials, appoint managers of election for each polling place, and otherwise
supervise and conduct all municipal elections within the town;
      (2)   Immediately upon the closing of the polls at any municipal election
in the town, the County Voter Registration and Elections Commission shall begin
to count and continuously count the votes cast and make a statement of the
whole number of votes cast in the election together with the number of votes
cast for each candidate for Mayor and Council member, canvass the vote and
publicly display the unofficial results;
      (3)   The Voter Registration and Election Commission shall thereafter
certify the results of the elections and transmit the certified results to the
Town Council or an appointed authority representing the city government as soon
as practical following the certification;
      (4)   Hear and decide protests and certify the results of municipal
elections; and
      (5)   Utilize an automated election system and computer counting with the
count publicly conducted.
   (C)   This section shall take effect upon the successful completion of the
following necessary actions prerequisite under federal and state law to effect
the changes called for hereunder:
      (1)   Adoption of an appropriate ordinance by the governing body of the
county accepting the authority being transferred hereunder; and
      (2)   Submission to the United States Justice Department and subsequent
receipt of preclearance and positive response to the transfer of authority for
conducting municipal elections which would be effected hereunder.
(1995 Code, § 1-8003) (Ord. 06-15-10-C, passed 6-15-2010)
§ 30.073 NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS.
   (A)   All regular and special elections for the Offices of Mayor and Council
shall be nonpartisan general elections pursuant to state law.
   (B)   The election results shall be determined according to the nonpartisan
plurality method prescribed in S.C. Code § 5-15-61.
   (C)   No political party affiliation shall be placed on any ballot for any
candidate.
(1995 Code, § 1-8004)
§ 30.074 TIME OF ELECTIONS; NOTICE.
   (A)   Elections for town officials shall be held in odd-numbered years on
the first Tuesday in April.
   (B)   The Council shall give public notice of the general town election at
least 90 days prior to the date of the election.
(1995 Code, § 1-8005)
§ 30.075 TIME OF TAKING OFFICE; CONTESTED ELECTION.
   (A)   Newly elected officers shall not be qualified pursuant to state law
until the third Tuesday in April next following the date of the general
election.
   (B)   Newly elected officials shall take office the first Tuesday in July.
   (C)   If the results of the election are contested, the incumbent who fills
the contested office shall hold over until the contest is finally determined.
(1995 Code, § 1-8006)
Statutory reference:
   Contested elections, see S.C. Code § 5-15-130
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Town Manager
   
31.01   Creation of office
   
31.02   Appointment of Town Manager
   
31.03   Removal of Town Manager
   
31.04   Powers and duties of Town Manager
   
31.05   Council not to interfere with appointments or removals
   
31.06   Emergencies
   
31.07   Bond
   
31.08   Compensation
   
31.09   Vacancy
Treasurer/Finance Director
   
31.20   Appointment; term
   
31.21   Bond
   
31.22   Duties
   
31.23   Town seal
Town Attorney
   
31.35   Election; term
Other Offices and Departments
   
31.50   Creation of other departments
TOWN MANAGER
§ 31.01 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The Office of Town Manager is hereby created.
(1995 Code, § 1-4001) (Ord. passed 9-20-1955)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT OF TOWN MANAGER.
   The Town Manager shall be appointed by majority vote of the Town Council for
an indefinite term. The Manager shall be chosen by the Council solely on the
basis of his or her executive and administrative qualification, with special
reference to his or her actual experience in municipal government. At the time
of his or her appointment he or she need not be a resident of the town or the
state. No Council member or Mayor shall receive the appointment during the term
for which he or she shall have been elected nor within one year after the
expiration of his or her term.
(1995 Code, § 1-4002) (Ord. passed 9-20-1955)
§ 31.03 REMOVAL OF TOWN MANAGER.
   The Town Manager may be suspended by the Council by a majority vote of its
members and at the time of the suspension shall be furnished with the reasons
for the suspension in writing. The Manager upon request to Council shall be
accorded a hearing by Council within ten days from date of suspension notice
and shall have the right to answer the charges against him or her before
Council. The request for the hearing shall be filed by the Manager with Council
within four days after receipt of the statement of charges. Council shall take
final action upon the charges at the hearing demanded by the Manager or, if no
hearing is demanded within the period herein specified, the Council shall
nevertheless meet within ten days from date of notice of suspension and make
final disposition of the matter.
(1995 Code, § 1-4003) (Ord. passed 9-20-1955)
§ 31.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall be the executive officer and head of the
administrative branch of the town, subject to approval by a majority vote of
Council.
   (B)   He or she shall be responsible to the Town Council for the proper
administration of all affairs of the town; and to that end, subject to the
personnel provisions of the Town Charter, he or she shall have power and shall
be required to:
      (1)   Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the service, suspend or
remove all officers and employees of the town, except as otherwise provided by
law, and except as he or she may authorize the head of a department or office
to appoint, suspend or remove subordinates in the department or office;
      (2)   Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the Council and be
responsible for its administration after adoption;
      (3)   Prepare and submit to the Council as of the end of the fiscal year
a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the town for
the preceding year;
      (4)   Keep the Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the town and make recommendations as he or she may deem desirable;
      (5)   Recommend to the governing body the salaries to be paid each
appointive officer and subordinate employee of the town;
      (6)   Recommend to the governing body, in writing, from time to time, for
adoption, any measures as he or she may deem necessary or expedient;
      (7)   Consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments or units
under his or her jurisdiction, with the approval of the Town Council. The
Manager may be the head of one or more departments;
      (8)   Attend all meetings of the Council, unless excused therefrom by the
Council, except when his or her removal is under consideration by the Council.
The Manager shall have the privilege of taking part in the discussion of all
matters coming before the Council. The Manager shall be entitled to notice of
all meetings, regular and special, of the Council;
      (9)   Purchase all materials, supplies or equipment, for which funds are
provided in the budget, but he or she may not purchase any item which exceeds
any budget appropriation until the Council has increased the appropriation:
provided, that for purchases of more than $5,000, except for emergency
replacement of essential equipment, the Manager shall be required to receive
sealed or competitive bids and shall present the bids to the Council for
approval or rejection. He or she may let contracts not in excess of $5,000,
necessary in the operation or maintenance of town services, when sufficient
funds for those purposes have been appropriated in the budget, but the Council
shall let all contracts for more than $5,000, all contracts for new
construction and all contracts which cannot be consummated with funds provided
in the current budget. The Manager shall advise the Council as to whether or
not any contract offered is desirable, or which of several contracts offered is
most desirable of the town. The Manager may issue rules and regulations
governing requisitions and the transaction of the business of purchasing
between himself or herself as purchasing agent and the heads of the
departments, officers and employees of the town as the governing body may
approve;
      (10)   See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced;
      (11)   Make investigations into the affairs of the town, or any
department or division thereof. Investigate all complaints in relation to all
matters concerning the administration of the government of the town, and in
regard to service maintained by the public utilities in the town, and see that
all franchises, permits and privileges granted by the town are faithfully
observed; and
      (12)   Perform any other duties as may be required of him or her by the
Council, not inconsistent with law or ordinances.
(1995 Code, § 1-4004) (Ord. passed 9-20-1955)
§ 31.05 COUNCIL NOT TO INTERFERE WITH APPOINTMENTS OR REMOVALS.
   Individual members of the Council shall not direct or request the
appointment of any person to, or his or her removal from office by the Manager,
or by his or her subordinates, or in any manner attempt to dictate the
appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative service
of the town. Except for the purpose of inquiry, Council shall deal with the
administrative service solely through the Manager, and no Council member or
Mayor shall give orders to any subordinates of the Manager, either publicly or
privately.
(1995 Code, § 1-4005) (Ord. passed 9-20-1955)
§ 31.06 EMERGENCIES.
   In case of accidents or other circumstances creating any emergency, the
Manager may, with the consent of the governing body, award contracts and make
purchases for the purpose of repairing damages caused by the accident or
meeting the emergency; but he or she shall file promptly with the Council a
certificate showing the emergency and the necessity for the action, together
with an itemized account of all expenditures.
(1995 Code, § 1-4006) (Ord. passed 9-20-1955)
§ 31.07 BOND.
   The Manager shall furnish a surety bond in the sum of $10,000 to be approved
by the Council, the bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of his
or her duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the town.
(1995 Code, § 1-4007) (Ord. passed 9-20-1955)
§ 31.08 COMPENSATION.
   The Manager shall receive compensation as the Council shall fix from time to
time by ordinance.
(1995 Code, § 1-4008) (Ord. passed 9-20-1955)
§ 31.09 VACANCY.
   Any vacancy in the Office of Manager shall be filled within 60 days after
the effective date of the vacancy.
(1995 Code, § 1-4009) (Ord. passed 9-20-1955)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of Manager, see S.C. Code § 5-13-90
TREASURER/FINANCE DIRECTOR
§ 31.20 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Town Manager shall appoint an officer to be known as the Treasurer/
Finance Director.
(1995 Code, § 1-4021)
§ 31.21 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of office, the Treasurer/Finance Director
shall give bond in a sum as may be required and with a surety company approved
by the Manager, for the faithful performance of the duties of office.
(1995 Code, § 1-4022)
§ 31.22 DUTIES.
   The Treasurer/Finance Director shall collect all claims and accounts that
may be due and payable to the town; receive all moneys belonging to the town;
issue all licenses for which provisions may be made; pay all bills owed by the
town when approved by the proper authority; deposit funds in a bank designated
by the Manager; make statements of financial conditions of the town as ordered
by the Manager; keep account of all moneys and accounts and report to the
Manager; and perform other duties as may be required by the Manager and
Council.
(1995 Code, § 1-4023)
§ 31.23 TOWN SEAL.
   (A)   The town shall have a common seal, which shall be affixed to all
ordinances passed by Council, to all deeds of real estate executed on behalf of
the town, and to all notes, bonds and other evidences of indebtedness executed
in behalf of the town.
   (B)   The seal shall be and remain in the custody of the Clerk to Council.
(1995 Code, § 1-4024)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Municipal Clerk, see S.C. Code § 5-7-220
TOWN ATTORNEY
§ 31.35 ELECTION; TERM.
   The Council shall appoint as Town Attorney a person who is a member of the
South Carolina Bar Association and admitted to practice law in this state.
(1995 Code, § 1-4031)
OTHER OFFICES AND DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.50 CREATION OF OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   There are hereby established and created other offices and departments
for the town as follows:
      (1)   Public Safety Department:
         (a)   Police protection; and
         (b)   Fire protection.
      (2)   Water/Sewer and Natural Gas Department;
      (3)   Electric Department;
      (4)   Streets and Sanitation Department;
      (5)   Finance Department;
      (6)   Building Inspection Office;
      (7)   Personnel Department;
      (8)   Purchasing and General Services Department;
      (9)   Maintenance Department; and
      (10)   Community Development and Grants Department.
   (B)   Persons appointed to these departments and offices shall be
responsible for the functions and duties as prescribed in this code and other
duties as the Manager may from time to time determine.
(1995 Code, § 1-4041)
Statutory reference:
   Departments and offices established by ordinance, see S.C. Code § 5-7-260
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Law Enforcement
   
32.01   Police Department established
   
32.02   Resisting arrest
   
32.03   Responding to summons for assistance
   
32.04   Resisting, interfering with officer
   
32.05   Resisting, interfering with officer in execution of warrant, other
process
   
32.06   Stop on command of officer
Emergency
   
32.20   Definitions
   
32.21   Emergency proclamation
   
32.22   Emergency powers of the Mayor
   
32.23   General curfew
   
32.24   Emergency authority of members of the Public Safety Department; duty of
public to obey
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 92
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 32.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Town Police Department to be headed by
the Public Safety Director who shall be appointed by the Manager.
   (B)   The Manager may employ additional members of the Department as deemed
appropriate.
(1995 Code, § 2-1001)
§ 32.02 RESISTING ARREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist arrest, or if under arrest, to
refuse to accompany the arresting officer or to endeavor to force the officer
to drag, pull or carry him or her to the place of destination.
(1995 Code, § 2-1002) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 32.03 RESPONDING TO SUMMONS FOR ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person between the ages of 18 and 50 years of
age being called upon by any police officer, member of the Council or anyone
deputized by them for assistance to suppress an affray, breach of peace or any
outrage, to refuse that assistance.
(1995 Code, § 2-1003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.04 RESISTING, INTERFERING WITH OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, resist, abuse or in any
manner, by word or act, interfere with a police officer or any other officer or
employee of the town in the discharge of his or her duty or to aid or abet any
assault, resistance, abuse or interference.
(1995 Code, § 2-1004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.05 RESISTING, INTERFERING WITH OFFICER IN EXECUTION OF WARRANT, OTHER
PROCESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, obstruct, hinder, prevent or
in any manner interfere with any officer or other person charged with the
execution of any lawful warrant or other process in arresting any person for
whose apprehension the warrant has been issued, or to rescue or attempt to
rescue any person from the custody of an officer or person lawfully arresting
him or her, or directly or indirectly to aid, abet or assist any person so
arrested to escape from custody, or to harbor or conceal any person for whose
arrest a warrant or other process shall have been issued, so as to prevent the
discovery of the person, after notice or knowledge of the fact of the issuing
of the warrant or other process.
(1995 Code, § 2-1005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.06 STOP ON COMMAND OF OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and knowingly fail or
refuse to stop when signaled, hailed or commanded to stop by a police officer
or other officer of the town.
(1995 Code, § 2-1006) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal police, see S.C. Code § 5-7-110
EMERGENCY
§ 32.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force, if accompanied by immediate power
to execute, by three or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
      (2)   Any impending natural disaster or humanmade calamity, including
flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within or
adjacent to the corporate limits of the town, resulting in the threat of death
or injury of person or the destruction of property to an extent that
extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the citizens and residents of the town.
   CURFEW.  A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits, excepting persons
officially designated to duty with reference to a civil emergency.
(1995 Code, § 2-3001) (Ord. passed 7-21-1970) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.21 EMERGENCY PROCLAMATION.
   When, in the judgment of the Mayor, or in his or her absence the Mayor Pro
Tem, a civil emergency is deemed to exist, he or she shall forthwith proclaim,
in writing, the existence of an emergency.
(1995 Code, § 2-3002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.22 EMERGENCY POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor, or in his or her absence
the Mayor Pro Tem, may, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any
or all of the following orders, in addition to the proclamation of any curfew
as herein provided:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
   (B)   Order the closing of all beer taverns or places at which beer is sold
or dispensed;
   (C)   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein the
consumption of intoxicating liquor, wine and/or beer is permitted;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer or wine;
   (E)   Prohibit the giving away of beer, wine, liquor or any other alcoholic
beverage;
   (F)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or liquid flammable or combustible products in any container other
than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (G)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments, the
chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
   (H)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
   (I)   Order the closing of any or all establishments or portions thereof,
the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution, dispensing or giving
away of firearms or ammunition; and
   (J)   Issue other orders as are immediately necessary for the protection of
life and property, including the ordering into effect and operation of any
civil disturbance plan prepared for and adopted by Council.
(1995 Code, § 2-3003) (Ord. passed 7-21-1970)
§ 32.23 GENERAL CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, or in his or her
absence the Mayor Pro Tem, he or she may order a general curfew applicable to
the geographical areas of the town, or to the town as a whole, as is deemed
necessary or advisable, and not applicable during the hours of the day or night
as is deemed necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
(1995 Code, § 2-3004) (Ord. passed 7-21-1970)
§ 32.24 EMERGENCY AUTHORITY OF MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT; DUTY OF
PUBLIC TO OBEY.
   (A)   All members of the public shall obey the lawful commands, orders and
directions of members of the Public Safety Department issued during the period
of the emergency and in connection with meeting the emergency.
   (B)   Included within the powers hereby conferred is the power to forbid all
individuals or vehicles from entering premises or areas where the emergency
exists and where the presence of these individuals or vehicles would handicap
the officers in combating the emergency; and the officers are likewise
empowered to require removal of any vehicle or other movable object from the
areas.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or impede the
efforts of the officers at the times stated and, specifically, to drive any
vehicle over or impose any weight upon any fire hose being employed or to be
employed in connection with meeting the emergency.
   (D)   The emergency area shall be deemed to include not merely the premises
immediately involved but also any and all fire hydrants in proximity to a
burning structure or being used or to be used in connection with combating the
emergency and shall include also all public or private property or across which
lines or equipment of either of the departments may be laid, strung or placed,
as well as streets and avenues adjacent or in proximity to the structure or
property affected or likely to be affected by the emergency. The powers hereby
conferred upon the Public Safety Department extend to the entire emergency area
and are in addition to the powers as members of the Department may already have
by operation of law.
(1995 Code, § 2-3005) (Ord. passed 1-26-1948) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Emergency ordinance adoption, see §
30.054(C)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Fiscal year designated
   
33.02   Annual tax levy
   
33.03   Annual tax for payment of interest on bonds, sinking fund
   
33.04   When taxes due and payable; to whom paid
   
33.05   Public notice
   
33.06   Notification to taxpayer of taxes due
   
33.07   Rate of tax
   
33.08   Duty of County Tax Collector
   
33.09   Manager to administer budget
Delinquent Tax Procedure
   
33.25   Penalty for nonpayment of taxes
   
33.26   Lien
   
33.27   Execution for delinquent taxes
   
33.28   Fees and charges for execution
   
33.29   Levy of executions
   
33.30   Suspension of sale upon claim of previous payment or unjust assessment
of taxes
   
33.31   Presumption from failure to raise the claim of previous payment or
unjust assessment
   
33.32   Advertisement of tax sale
   
33.33   Conduct of sale
   
33.34   Receipt and duplicate warrant given to purchaser
   
33.35   Purchase of land at tax sale by town
   
33.36   Disposition of proceeds of sale
   
33.37   Redemption
   
33.38   Waste during redemption period
   
33.39   Title to purchaser upon failure to redeem
   
33.40   Tax Collector’s deed as evidence of title
   
33.41   Tax Collector’s bond to cover money collected by him or her pursuant to
executions
   
33.42   Responsibility of Tax Collector for execution and collection
   
33.43   Proceedings before Town Council for relief of taxpayer
   
33.44   Recovery of collection costs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 FISCAL YEAR DESIGNATED.
   (A)   From and after the passage of this section the fiscal year of the town
shall end on June 30 of each year.
   (B)   All records, accounts, statements, accounting periods and financial
matters of the town shall hereafter conform to this fiscal year termination
date.
(1995 Code, § 1-5001) (Ord. passed 7-7-1970)
§ 33.02 ANNUAL TAX LEVY.
   The Council shall impose by ordinance an annual tax at a rate in its
discretion as will yield an amount necessary for the general purposes of the
town, not exceeding the limit permitted by law, exclusive of any tax levied
with respect to any outstanding bond issues. The tax shall be levied by the
Council on the property within the corporate limits of the town as assessed for
taxation for county and state purposes as heretofore provided in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 1-5002)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL TAX FOR PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON BONDS, SINKING FUND.
   In addition to the annual tax, the Council shall have the right to levy any
further annual tax as may be necessary to pay the interest on all outstanding
bonds issued by the town and to create the necessary sinking funds for the
redemption of the bonds at their respective maturities.
(1995 Code, § 1-5003)
§ 33.04 WHEN TAXES DUE AND PAYABLE; TO WHOM PAID.
   Any person owning or possessing taxable property with the town as of January
1 of every calendar year shall be subject to taxation for the ensuing year. All
taxes and sums herein assessed and provided for shall be due and payable
between December 1 and February 15 of the following year. All these taxes and
sums remaining due and unpaid on February 15 of each year shall be subject to a
penalty of 15% and an additional 5% for all delinquent taxes remaining due and
unpaid on March 15 of the same year and shall be collected by distress or
otherwise, as is provided by law, together with all legal costs and legal
penalties.
(1995 Code, § 1-5004) (Ord. passed 6-21-1983)
§ 33.05 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to publish in the local newspaper the
amount of the millage imposed by Council for purposes of taxation for the
ensuing year, this notice to appear 30 days prior to the date taxes are due for
collection.
(1995 Code, § 1-5005)
§ 33.06 NOTIFICATION TO TAXPAYER OF TAXES DUE.
   The County Treasurer’s Office through a mutual agreement notifies each
taxpayer by mail of the taxpayer’s total obligation, both county and
municipality.
(1995 Code, § 1-5006)
§ 33.07 RATE OF TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising supplies and funds for general purposes and
to meet the general obligations of the town, an ad valorem tax will be levied
and assessed upon every dollar of the value of all real and personal property
within the corporate limits of the town on an annual basis.
   (B)   All taxes and sums assessed and payable under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be paid in legal currency and tender of the United States of
America.
(1995 Code, § 1-5007) (Ord. passed 6-15-1976)
§ 33.08 DUTY OF COUNTY TAX COLLECTOR.
   The County Tax Collector shall collect municipal taxes at the time county
taxes are collected and shall be responsible for the collection of delinquent
taxes.
(1995 Code, § 1-5008)
§ 33.09 MANAGER TO ADMINISTER BUDGET.
   The Manager shall administer the budget and may authorize the transfer of
appropriated funds within and between departments as necessary to achieve the
goals of the budget.
(1995 Code, § 1-5009)
DELINQUENT TAX PROCEDURE
§ 33.25 PENALTY FOR NONPAYMENT OF TAXES.
   All taxes not paid by January 1 shall be delinquent and the penalties as
provided in §
33.04 will be added.
(1995 Code, § 1-5021)
§ 33.26 LIEN.
   Taxes so levied and the penalties for nonpayment shall constitute a lien
upon the property on which the tax is levied.
(1995 Code, § 1-5022)
§ 33.27 EXECUTION FOR DELINQUENT TAXES.
   If the taxes and penalties are not paid by May 1 of the following year, the
authorized official shall issue in the name of the town an execution, in
duplicate, signed by the duly authorized official, directed to the Tax
Collector of the town requiring and commanding him or her to levy the execution
by distress and sale of so much of the defaulting taxpayer’s estate, real,
personal or both, as may be sufficient to satisfy the town taxes with the
penalties thereon of the defaulters, and shall specify the aggregate amount of
the taxes and penalties.
(1995 Code, § 1-5023)
§ 33.28 FEES AND CHARGES FOR EXECUTION.
   The town shall be allowed the same fees and costs in the enforcement of the
executions and for sales thereunder as are allowed to the County Tax Collector
and Sheriff respectively. These fees and costs shall be enforceable and
collectible in the same manner as fees and costs under county and state
executions and on sales thereunder.
(1995 Code, § 1-5024)
§ 33.29 LEVY OF EXECUTIONS.
   Under the execution, the authorized official shall seize and take exclusive
possession of as much as the defaulting taxpayer’s estate, real or personal or
both, as may be necessary to raise the sum of money named therein, and the
charges thereon.
(1995 Code, § 1-5025)
§ 33.30 SUSPENSION OF SALE UPON CLAIM OF PREVIOUS PAYMENT OR UNJUST ASSESSMENT
OF TAXES.
   In case the defaulting taxpayer, after levy of execution, shall allege that
the taxes have been paid or are unjustly assessed against him or her, he or she
can and may have the sale suspended, provided that before the sale he or she
satisfies the Tax Collector that he or she has paid all taxes charged against
the property, together with the penalties and costs named in the warrant,
accompanied with his or her affidavit that the taxes have been paid, or are
unjustly assessed against him or her, and within 20 days thereafter take the
steps as are provided in this chapter for correction of unjust assessment, or
to prove payment and prosecute the matter to a successful result within a
reasonable time.
(1995 Code, § 1-5026)
§ 33.31 PRESUMPTION FROM FAILURE TO RAISE THE CLAIM OF PREVIOUS PAYMENT OR
UNJUST ASSESSMENT.
   In case the defaulting taxpayer, after the levy of the execution, makes no
payment and files no affidavit, as herein provided, he or she shall be deemed
in law to have waived all exception to possible omissions, errors or
irregularities in the assessment of the tax and in all preliminaries to the
sale as prescribed by law, and to have admitted that all preliminary steps to
the assessment and sale, and the assessment and sale, are in accordance with
requirements of the law.
(1995 Code, § 1-5027)
§ 33.32 ADVERTISEMENT OF TAX SALE.
   The authorized official shall give notice of and advertise all sales made by
him or her under the provisions of this chapter in the same manner as tax sales
by sheriffs are required by law to be noticed and advertised, and according to
the usage and custom in these cases.
(1995 Code, § 1-5028)
§ 33.33 CONDUCT OF SALE.
   After advertisement, the authorized official shall sell the property levied
upon at public outcry before the entrance to the courthouse at a time which may
be determined and stated in notice and advertisement of sale.
(1995 Code, § 1-5029)
§ 33.34 RECEIPT AND DUPLICATE WARRANT GIVEN TO PURCHASER.
   Upon compliance by the purchaser with the terms of the sale, the authorized
official shall give to the purchaser a receipt for the purchase money and shall
annex the receipt to the duplicate execution. The authorized official shall
endorse the duplicate execution with a statement of his or her actions
thereunder.
(1995 Code, § 1-5030)
§ 33.35 PURCHASE OF LAND AT TAX SALE BY TOWN.
   In case there is no bid equal or greater in amount to the taxes named in the
execution, in addition to any taxes due to the state and county on the
property, the Finance Director shall buy the land for the town as the actual
purchaser thereof, for the amount of the taxes and penalties, costs and
charges, and the Chief of Police shall issue his or her receipt, and if not
redeemed thereafter execute title, to the town as to any other purchaser, in
the manner above provided, and shall put it or its authorized agent in
possession of the premises. The land so sold and purchased and delivered to the
town shall be treated by it as assets of the town and sold at which time and in
a manner as by it shall be deemed most advantageous to it.
(1995 Code, § 1-5031)
§ 33.36 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   After deducting from the proceeds of the sale, the costs and expenses
thereof, the Tax Collector shall pay over the remainder to the authorized
official who shall apply it to the payment of taxes due from the defaulting
taxpayer and retain the balance, if any, for disposition according to law.
(1995 Code, § 1-5032)
§ 33.37 REDEMPTION.
   The owner, his or her successor in title, or any mortgage creditor may
within one year from the day of the sale redeem the property by paying to the
authorized official the taxes, penalties, cost and expenses of the sale,
together with 7% of the whole amount of the purchase price of the land so sold.
Thereupon the town shall refund to the purchaser the amount paid on his or her
bid with interest as above stated. The bid by the purchaser shall be then
cancelled. The owner or his or her successor in title shall remain in
possession of this land. Should any mortgagee redeem land as above permitted,
then the amount so paid by him or her for taxes, charges, costs and penalties,
shall be added to the mortgage debt or other lien, with same incidents as to
priority and with same rate of interest and collectible in the same way as the
original mortgage debt.
(1995 Code, § 1-5033)
§ 33.38 WASTE DURING REDEMPTION PERIOD.
   In the event waste or damage to the premises is threatened by the owner or
any other party during the redemption period, the purchaser at a tax sale may
apply to the Court of Common Pleas or a judge thereof for an injunction against
the waste and for the appointment of a receiver to take charge of the property.
(1995 Code, § 1-5034)
§ 33.39 TITLE TO PURCHASER UPON FAILURE TO REDEEM.
   The Tax Collector shall not make title to the purchaser until the expiration
of the redemption period. Upon failure of defaulting taxpayer or other party
interested to redeem the land so sold for taxes within one year as stated, the
Tax Collector shall make title to the purchaser and put the purchaser in
possession of the property sold and conveyed.
(1995 Code, § 1-5035)
§ 33.40 TAX COLLECTOR’S DEED AS EVIDENCE OF TITLE.
   In all cases of sale, the Tax Collector’s deed of conveyance shall be held
and taken as prima facie evidence of a good title in the holder, that all
proceedings have been regular and that there has been compliance with all the
requirements of the law.
(1995 Code, § 1-5036)
§ 33.41 TAX COLLECTOR’S BOND TO COVER MONEY COLLECTED BY HIM OR HER PURSUANT TO
EXECUTIONS.
   The town shall be protected by the official bond of the Tax Collector for
the proper collection and payment by him or her to the Finance Director of all
moneys received by him or her pursuant to executions delivered to him or her.
(1995 Code, § 1-5037)
§ 33.42 RESPONSIBILITY OF TAX COLLECTOR FOR EXECUTION AND COLLECTION.
   The Tax Collector shall be responsible for all executions delivered to him
or her and for all funds realized thereunder. He or she shall keep a proper
account thereof.
(1995 Code, § 1-5038)
§ 33.43 PROCEEDINGS BEFORE TOWN COUNCIL FOR RELIEF OF TAXPAYER.
   The Town Council shall hear and determine, upon satisfactory proof, the
petition of any taxpayer praying relief for any cause, and especially on the
ground that all taxes due upon the property have been paid or that portions of
the taxes have been paid, and an offer to pay the balance, accompanied by the
sum admitted to be owing. The Council shall grant the relief of the premises as
may be just.
(1995 Code, § 1-5039)
§ 33.44 RECOVERY OF COLLECTION COSTS.
   (A)   The Town of Winnsboro may impose a collection cost of up to $25 to
defray its internal costs of collection for any delinquent debts that are
sought to be collected pursuant to the provisions of the Setoff Debt Collection
Act, S.C. Code Ann. §§ 12-56-10 et. seq. This cost is hereby declared to be a
collection cost that arises by operation of law and shall be added to the
delinquent debt and recovered from the debtor.
   (B)   The Town of Winnsboro hereby declares that the administrative fee
charged by the Municipal Association of South Carolina is also a collection
cost to the city/town, which shall also be added to the delinquent debt and
recovered from the debtor.
   (C)   This section shall be effective on the date of final reading, provided
however, that this section is declared to be consistent with prior law and
practice and shall not be construed to mean that any fees previously charged to
debtors as costs of collection under the act were not properly authorized or
properly charged to the debtor.
(Ord. 09-05-06, passed 9-5-2006; Am. Ord. 2018-101618B, passed 11-6-2018)
CHAPTER 34: PURCHASING
Section
   
34.01   Purchasing agent; specified duties
   
34.02   Formal contract procedure
   
34.03   Bidding; competitive; required exception
   
34.04   Award to lowest bidder; advertising, when required
   
34.05   Bid deposits
   
34.06   Sealed bid procedures
   
34.07   Materials testing
   
34.08   Financial interest of town officials and employees prohibited
   
34.09   Records of open market orders and bids
   
34.10   Stock reports
   
34.11   Surplus stock
   
34.12   Supplies unsuitable for public use, sale or exchange
   
34.13   Gifts and rebates
   
34.14   Cooperative purchasing
§ 34.01 PURCHASING AGENT; SPECIFIED DUTIES.
   The Town Manager, or an officer of the town designated by the Town Manager,
shall be the purchasing agent for the town. He or she shall be responsible to
ensure that all procurement and contracts are administered within compliance of
the local procurement policy, which is consistent with state procurement
regulations.
(1995 Code, § 1-5051)
§ 34.02 FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   All supplies and contractual services, except as otherwise provided herein,
when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $10,000, shall be purchased by
formal, written contract from the lowest responsible bidder, after due notice
inviting proposals. No contract or purchase shall be subdivided to avoid the
requirements of this section. All sales of personal property which has become
obsolete or unusable, when the estimated value shall exceed $10,000, shall be
sold by formal written contract or at a public auction to the highest
responsible bidder, after due notice inviting proposals and bidders.
(1995 Code, § 1-5052) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 34.03 BIDDING; COMPETITIVE; REQUIRED EXCEPTION.
   Before any purchases or contracts for supplies, materials, equipment or
services exceeding $5,000 are made, the purchasing agent shall give ample
opportunity for competitive bidding. For purchases or contracts not exceeding
$5,000, oral bids may be accepted. All other bids shall be in writing.
Competitive bidding shall be encouraged for all contracts, purchases or sales.
However, in the event of an emergency affecting the public welfare, health or
safety, the provisions of this section shall not apply. A full report of the
circumstances of an emergency purchase shall be filed by the purchasing agent
with the Town Council and shall be entered in the minutes of the Council.
(1995 Code, § 1-5053) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 34.04 AWARD TO LOWEST BIDDER; ADVERTISING, WHEN REQUIRED.
   All contracts for town improvements, materials, equipment or services
costing more than $5,000 shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder
after publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the town at least
five days before the last day set for receipt of proposals; provided, however,
that in case of professional services, this section shall not apply. The
newspaper notice required herein shall include a general description of the
articles or services to be purchased, shall state where bid blanks and
specifications may be secured and the time and place for opening bids.
(1995 Code, § 1-5054) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 34.05 BID DEPOSITS.
   When deemed necessary by the purchasing agent, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Upon entering into a contract,
bidders shall be entitled to return of bid deposit where the purchasing agent
has required it. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit required by
the purchasing agent upon failure on his or her part to enter into a contract
within ten days after the award; provided, however, that the town, in its
uncontrolled discretion, may waive this forfeiture.
(1995 Code, § 1-5055) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 34.06 SEALED BID PROCEDURES.
   Procedure for sealed bids shall be as follows.
   (A)   Sealing. Bids shall be submitted to the purchasing agent securely
sealed in an envelope and shall be identified on the envelope in accordance
with bid instructions.
   (B)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the public inspection.
   (C)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available for
public notices.
   (D)   Rejection of bids. The purchasing agent shall have the authority to
reject all bids, parts of all bids or all bids for any one or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public
interest will be served thereby.
   (E)   Bidders in default to town. The purchasing agent shall not accept the
bid of a vendor or contractor who is delinquent in the payment of taxes,
license or other moneys due the town.
   (F)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Authority in agent. The purchasing agent shall have the authority
to award contracts within the purview of this chapter; provided, however, that
contracts in excess of $5,000 shall not be awarded without prior approval of
Town Council.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder.  Contracts shall be awarded to the
lowest responsible bidder. In determining lowest responsible bidder, in
addition to price, the purchasing agent shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgement, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or services;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
   (G)   Award to other than low bidder. When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the
order elsewhere shall be prepared by the purchasing agent and filed with the
papers relating to the transaction and held for a period of no less than 12
months.
   (H)   Tie bids.
      (1)   Local vendors. If all bids received are for the same total amount
or unit price, quality and service being equal, the contract shall be awarded
to the local bidder. If two or more of these bids are submitted by local
bidders, the purchasing agent shall award the contract to one of the local tie
bidders by drawing lots in public. If local bidders are not involved in the tie
bids, the purchasing agent shall award the contract to one of the outside tie
bidders by drawing lots in public. The purchasing agent, local bidders and
vendors should bear in mind, however, that to award a contract to a local
vendor where he or she is not the lowest responsible bidder, or where price,
quality and service are not equal, is to give preference to one minute segment
of the citizenry against the best interests of the community as a whole.
      (2)   Performance bonds. The purchasing agent shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in a form and
amount as he or she shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best
interests of the town.
      (3)   Payment bond, labor and material bond. The purchasing agent may
require a payment bond and a labor and material bond, before entering into a
contract, in a form and amount as he or she shall deem necessary to protect the
best interest and the town.
(1995 Code, § 1-5056) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 34.07 MATERIALS TESTING.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to require chemical and
physical tests of samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries which
are necessary to determine their quality and conformance with the
specifications. In the performance of these tests, the purchasing agent shall
have the authority to make use of laboratory facilities of any agency of the
town government or any outside laboratory.
(1995 Code, § 1-5057) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 34.08 FINANCIAL INTEREST OF TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.
   No member of the Town Council or any officer or employee of the town shall
have a financial interest in any contract or in the sale to the town or to a
contractor supplying the town of any land or rights or interests in any land,
material, supplies or services, except when a majority of the Town Council
determines the exception in the best interest of the town; provided, that no
Council member whose interest is involved shall vote on the question. Any
willful violation of this section shall constitute malfeasance in office, and
any officer or employee of the town found guilty thereof shall thereby forfeit
his or her office or position. Any violation of this section with the knowledge
express or implied of the person or corporation contracting with the town shall
render the contract voidable by the Town Manager or the Town Council.
(1995 Code, § 1-5057) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.09 RECORDS OF OPEN MARKET ORDERS AND BIDS.
   The purchasing agent shall keep a record of all open market orders and the
bids submitted in competition thereon, and the records shall also be open to
public inspection.
(1995 Code, § 1-5059) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 34.10 STOCK REPORTS.
   All offices, departments or agencies of the town government shall submit to
the purchasing agent, at times and in a form as he or she shall prescribe,
reports showing stocks of all supplies which are no longer used or which have
become obsolete, worn-out or scrapped.
(1995 Code, § 1-5060) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 34.11 SURPLUS STOCK.
   The purchasing agent shall have authority to transfer surplus stock to other
offices, departments or agencies of the town government.
(1995 Code, § 1-5061) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 34.12 SUPPLIES UNSUITABLE FOR PUBLIC USE, SALE OR EXCHANGE.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to sell all supplies which
have become unsuitable for public use, or to exchange the same for or trade in
the same on new supplies. These sales shall be made to the highest bidder and
in conformance with §§
34.02 through
34.06. All other unsuitable equipment or supplies may be disposed of through
negotiated bids, public auctions or other appropriate means as determined by
the purchasing agent and the Town Manager. All moneys received from these sales
shall be paid into the appropriate fund of the town.
(1995 Code, § 1-5062) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 34.13 GIFTS AND REBATES.
   The purchasing agent and every officer and employee of the town are
expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, from any person,
company, firm or corporation to which any purchase order or contract is or
might be awarded, any rebate, gift, money or anything of value whatsoever,
except where given for the use and benefit of the town.
(1995 Code, § 1-5063) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
§ 34.14 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The purchasing agent shall have authority to join with other units of
government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the town
would be served thereby; provided, that the purchasing agent of the town is
given the authority to make purchases of supplies and equipment through the
property division of the State Budget and Control Board, without the formality
of publication and receiving competitive bids.
(1995 Code, § 1-5064) (Ord. passed 6-7-1983)
CHAPTER 35: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
35.01   Created
   
35.02   Jurisdiction
   
35.03   Powers and duties, generally
   
35.04   To hold court
   
35.05   Appointment
   
35.06   Term
   
35.07   Compensation
   
35.08   Oath
   
35.09   Vacancy
   
35.10   Time of court
   
35.11   Rules of procedure
   
35.12   Director of Public Safety or his or her designee to attend Court
   
35.13   Appearance bonds
§ 35.01 CREATED.
   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court.
(1995 Code, § 1-7001) (Ord. passed 2-12-1957)
§ 35.02 JURISDICTION.
   The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction to try and determine all cases
arising under the provisions of this code and other ordinances of the town. It
shall also have jurisdiction in criminal cases as is now conferred by law upon
magistrates in the county.
(1995 Code, § 1-7002)
§ 35.03 POWERS AND DUTIES, GENERALLY.
   The Court shall have all judicial powers and duties as are now conferred
upon the Mayor by state law, and all duties and powers as are now conferred by
law upon magistrates in the county, except the Court shall not have the
authority of a magistrate to appoint a constable.
(1995 Code, § 1-7003)
§ 35.04 TO HOLD COURT.
   The Municipal Court shall be held by the Municipal Judge.
(1995 Code, § 1-7004)
§ 35.05 APPOINTMENT.
   The Municipal Judge shall be appointed by the Council.
(1995 Code, § 1-7005)
§ 35.06 TERM.
   The Municipal Judge shall hold his or her office for a term of one year or
until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(1995 Code, § 1-7006)
§ 35.07 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Municipal Judge shall be as determined by the
Council from time to time.
(1995 Code, § 1-7007)
§ 35.08 OATH.
   Before entering upon his or her duties, the Municipal Judge shall take and
subscribe the usual oath of office.
(1995 Code, § 1-7008) (Ord. passed 2-12-1957)
§ 35.09 VACANCY.
   In the case of a vacancy in the Office of Municipal Judge by death,
resignation or otherwise, the Council may appoint a successor to fill the
unexpired term. In the case of the temporary absence, sickness or disability of
the Municipal Judge, the Council may appoint an interim, temporary Municipal
Judge.
(1995 Code, § 1-7009)
§ 35.10 TIME OF COURT.
   The Municipal Judge shall hold at least one session of Municipal Court in
each week. He or she shall also hold other sessions as may be required to
dispatch the judicial affairs of the town. In the event that the Municipal
Judge cannot attend any session of court, the assistant Municipal Judge(s)
shall hold court in his or her stead.
(1995 Code, § 1-7010) (Ord. passed 2-19-1957)
§ 35.11 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Municipal Judge shall establish and prescribe all necessary and proper
rules of procedure for the Municipal Court; provided, however, that the same
shall not conflict in any manner with existing state and town laws.
(1995 Code, § 1-7011)
§ 35.12 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY OR HIS OR HER DESIGNEE TO ATTEND COURT.
   The Director of Public Safety or his or her designee shall attend all
sessions of the Municipal Court and shall be subject to orders of the court and
shall execute the orders, writs and mandates therefrom and perform other duties
in connection with the court as may be provided by ordinance or state statute.
(1995 Code, § 1-7012) (Ord. passed 2-19-1957)
§ 35.13 APPEARANCE BONDS.
   (A)   In any case in Municipal Court where a bond or other recognizance is
required, if the qualifications of the proposed surety on the bond or
recognizance are not known to the Municipal Judge, he or she may, in his or her
discretion, require the person proposing to sign as the surety, in addition to
meeting all other requirements of law to file with the bond or recognizance
bonds or recognizances in civil or criminal cases, or both, on which that
person is surety. The affidavit shall be attached to the bond or recognizance
and kept therewith. In computing and determining the qualification of the
person as surety on the bond or recognizance in question, the actual value of
the person’s real property shall be calculated at five times the assessed value
thereof, as shown by certificate of the County Auditor and from the actual
value so computed shall be deducted the total amount of all outstanding bonds
or recognizances on which the person is surety, as well as the person’s
outstanding encumbrances, liens upon the real estate, his or her homestead and
other exemptions allowed by law.
   (B)   The Municipal Judge may, unless otherwise prohibited by law, require a
cash bond rather than a surety bond after any conviction.
(1995 Code, § 1-7013) (Ord. passed 11-25-1963)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish Municipal Court, see S.C. Code § 5-7-230
CHAPTER 36: TOWN POLICIES; PERSONNEL
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Personnel administration; adoption
   
36.02   At-will employment
   
36.03   Reimbursement of expensesincurred by Mayor and Council
   
36.04   Work environment
ADA Grievance Procedure
   
36.15   Complaints; procedures
Public Buildings and Property
   
36.30   Mowing of tree strips
   
36.31   Use of public buildings
   
36.32   Marking of town equipment
   
36.33   Town vehicles leaving the town limits
   
36.34   Surplus equipment
   
36.35   Disabled Access Inventory of Town Facilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION; ADOPTION.
   All of the personnel functions, procedures and the like for the town shall
be administered in accordance with the town’s Personnel Policy Manual, duly
approved and adopted by the Council.
(1995 Code, Ch. 6)
§ 36.02 AT-WILL EMPLOYMENT.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town, notwithstanding any
policies, memoranda or handbooks promulgated by the town or any employment
practices of the town that:
   (A)   All employees of the town are employed at-will and may resign or be
discharged from employment at any time; and
   (B)   Only the Town Manager shall have the right to enter into contracts for
other than at-will employment on the town’s behalf. Any contract for other than
at-will employment must:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Be executed by the Town Manager;
      (3)   Specify the duration of the employment; and
      (4)   Specifically state that the contract is being created pursuant to
the Town Manager’s authority under this section.
(Ord. 01-06-04, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 36.03 REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES INCURRED BY MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   (A)   Lodging.
      (1)   The cost of lodging shall be reimbursed for Council members only.
An itemized receipt shall be filed with the Town Purchasing Agent as provided
herein. During conventions, seminars and similar activities, lodging shall be
on the recommended list. Lodging expenses incurred in excess of the amount
charged at the headquarters/seminar hotel shall not be reimbursed unless
lodging at the headquarters/seminar hotel is not available. All reservations
for lodging shall be made by the Municipal Clerk or the Town Manager.
      (2)   The cost of additional services such as pay movies, room service,
valet service, personal telephone calls and the like shall be at the expense of
the Council member concerned. The cost of laundry and dry cleaning is
reimbursable if the official’s absence extends over more than seven calendar
days. An itemized receipt shall be filed as provided herein.
      (3)   Costs necessary to perform official duties shall be reimbursed
provided an itemized receipt is filed as provided herein.
   (B)   Meals. Council members traveling on official business shall be granted
a per diem of $75 per day.
   (C)   Mileage. When utilizing private vehicles, Council members’ mileage for
official town business trips shall be reimbursed at the standard mileage rate
currently in effect as recognized by the United States Internal Revenue
Service.
   (D)   Voucher submittal. Itemized receipts and vouchers shall be filed with
the Town Purchasing Agent within five days after return from travel. The town
shall pay valid claims within seven days from date of filing.
(Ord. 02-19-02B, passed 2-19-2002; Ord. 06-15-04, passed 6-15-2004)
§ 36.04 WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   The town will endeavor to provide a work environment free of
recognized hazards through the establishment and implementation of loss control
policies and procedures, and their subsequent amendments and additions,
designed to provide protection to town employees, public and private property,
and members of the public.
   (B)   The town will support compliance with all Federal and state safety
regulations; provide and require the use of personal protective equipment by
all employees; and insure that all employees are advised of and understand
their loss control responsibilities in the performance of their work.
(Res. 04172018-A, passed 4-17-2018)
ADA GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
§ 36.15 COMPLAINTS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes a resolution of complaints alleging any
violation of U.S. Department of Justice Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
12101 et seq. Title II states, in part, that “no otherwise qualified disabled
individual shall, solely by reason of the disability, be excluded from
participation in, be denied the benefits of or be subjected to discrimination”
in programs or activities sponsored by a public entity.
   (B)   Complaints should be addressed to: Town Manager, Town of Winnsboro,
P.O. Box 209, Winnsboro, SC 29180.
      (1)   Complaints must be filed in writing within 30 days after the
complainant becomes aware of the alleged violation, contain the name and
address of the person filing it, and briefly describe the circumstances
surrounding the alleged violation of the regulations.
      (2)   An investigation, as may be appropriate, shall follow a filing of
complaint and shall be conducted by Ms. Rice. The investigation shall be
informal but thorough and shall afford complainant and his or her
representatives, if any, opportunity to submit evidence relevant to the
complaint.
      (3)   A written determination as to the validity of the complaint and a
description of the resolution, if any shall be issued by Ms. Rice and a copy
forwarded to the complainant no later than 30 days after its filing.
      (4)   The complainant, in instances where he or she is dissatisfied with
the initial resolution, may appeal the decision of the ADA Coordinator to the
Town Manager. These requests should be in writing and submitted within 30 days
following receipt of the Coordinator’s decision. Request for reconsideration of
the case should be addressed to: Mr. James Futrell, Town Manager, Town of
Winnsboro, P.O. Box 209, Winnsboro, SC 29180.
      (5)   Files and records of the town relating to the complaints filed
shall be maintained by the ADA Coordinator.
      (6)   Use of the grievance procedure by a complainant is not a
prerequisite to the pursuit of other remedies such as the filing of an ADA
complaint with the responsible federal department or agency.
      (7)   These rules shall be construed to protect the substantive rights of
interested persons to meet appropriate due process standards and to assure that
the town complies with the ADA and implementing regulations.
(1995 Code, § 1-6045)
PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND PROPERTY
§ 36.30 MOWING OF TREE STRIPS.
   (A)   The appearance of the town will be improved whenever possible.
Regarding moving of tree strips, the main arteries will be moved by town crews
within the town limits.
   (B)   The arteries are:
      (1)   Congress Street;
      (2)   Washington Street;
      (3)   Moultrie Street; and
      (4)   Zion Street from Bratton Street to Moultrie Street.
(1995 Code, § 3-3001) (Res. passed 1-23-1979)
§ 36.31 USE OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A listing of real property including public buildings is maintained in
a real property inventory list in the Town Hall.
   (B)   Whenever possible, town-owned buildings or property not used by the
town should be revenue-producing and not a drain on the taxpayers.
(1995 Code, § 3-3002) (Res. passed 1-23-1979)
§ 36.32 MARKING OF TOWN EQUIPMENT.
   Decals identifying all motorized vehicles owned by the town (trucks, motor
cars and the like) shall be placed on town equipment identifying it as such
except where exempted by Town Manager. If possible, decals will be placed on
lawnmowers so that private use will not be made of public equipment.
(1995 Code, § 3-3003) (Res. passed 1-23-1979)
§ 36.33 TOWN VEHICLES LEAVING THE TOWN LIMITS.
   No town vehicle will be taken out of town for private purposes.
(1995 Code, § 3-3004) (Res. passed 1-23-1979)
§ 36.34 SURPLUS EQUIPMENT.
   All surplus equipment of the town will be offered for sale from time to time
at advertised auctions.
(1995 Code, § 3-3005) (Res. passed 1-23-1979)
§ 36.35 DISABLED ACCESS INVENTORY OF TOWN FACILITIES.
   The “Disabled Access Inventory of Town Facilities” for the town is located
in the Personnel Director’s office.
(1995 Code, § 3-3006) (Ord. passed 11-5-1984)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
52.   GAS REGULATIONS
      
53.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
54.   SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Utility departments established
   
50.02   Prohibited acts
   
50.03   Utility connections not to be made unless indebtedness satisfied
   
50.04   Town policies
   
50.05   Natural gas distribution system combined with combined utility system
   
50.06   Development impact fees for water and wastewater disposal facilities
   
50.07   Interconnection standards for small generation
   
50.08   Utility security deposits
§ 50.01 UTILITY DEPARTMENTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Gas, Water and Sewer Department and an
Electric Department which shall be respectively headed by directors appointed
by the Town Manager.
   (B)   The directors shall supervise and be responsible for the operation of
the gas, water and sewer services, and the electrical service provided by the
town.
(1995 Code, § 4-1001)
Cross-reference:
   Combined utility systems, see §
50.05
§ 50.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any connection whatever
with either the electric, water or sewer systems of the town, unless that
person shall have been duly authorized to make the connection by the
appropriate director.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or maliciously
break or injure any electric meter, water meter, water meter box, street light,
street light post or other electrical or water works equipment of the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bypass or attempt to bypass any
electric or water meter in the town without special written permission of the
appropriate director authorizing the bypass.
   (D)   No person, other than a duly authorized agent or employee of the
utility department, shall turn on or attempt to restore water or electric
service into any house, store or lot, after the service has been cut off for
nonpayment of bills or noncompliance with the provisions of this code or other
rules and regulations of the town.
(1995 Code, § 4-1002) (Ord. passed 1-26-1948) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 UTILITY CONNECTIONS NOT TO BE MADE UNLESS INDEBTEDNESS SATISFIED.
   (A)   No person who owes any past due utility bill to the town for electric,
water, natural gas and/or sewer service and who applies for any or all of the
above utility services from the town, at a new or additional location, shall
not receive any listed services from the town at the new or additional location
until all past due indebtedness to the town is paid in full.
   (B)   Town utility employees are directed not to make any utility
connections while the past due indebtedness remains owing to the town by the
customer.
(1995 Code, § 4-1003) (Ord. passed 4-7-1970) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 TOWN POLICIES.
   (A)   Water and sewerage rates should be set so that rates reflect the cost
of these services. They should not be subsidized by electrical and gas
services. This is especially necessary because not all customers subscribe to
electrical and gas services.
   (B)   Free electricity, water, gas or sewer shall not be provided to any
person or organization.
   (C)   Customers residing outside of town limits, who request town services,
are required to complete a contract for provision of services to out of town
customers. The contract requires that, as a condition of service, the customer
must agree to complete an annexation petition presented at any future date. If
the customer refuses to sign a valid annexation petition, the property will not
be served by the town.
(1995 Code, § 4-1004) (Res. passed 1-23-1979; Ord. 93, passed 11-21-2023)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM COMBINED WITH COMBINED UTILITY SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby makes the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The combined utility system and the natural gas distribution system
of the town each constitutes an “enterprise” as that term is defined in S.C.
Code § 6-17-20, as amended; and
      (2)   The proposed expansions of the natural gas distribution system,
waterworks system and sewage collection and treatment system to be financed by
the bonds are deemed by the Town Council to be related to the combined utility
system and the natural gas distribution system and the construction of the
proposed project shall be considered an improvement, extension or betterment of
the existing combined utility system and natural gas distribution system.
   (B)   The combined utility system, consisting of the waterworks system, the
sewage collection and treatment system and electric distribution system shall,
on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this section, be combined
into one system to be known as the “combined utility system” of the town.
(1995 Code, § 4-1005) (Ord. passed 2-10-1987)
§ 50.06 DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES FOR WATER AND WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   The City Council amends the existing schedule of rates and charges for
water and sewer customers to include development impact fees.
   (B)   The rates adopted shall go into effect 90 days from the adoption of
this section.
   (C)   The Town Manager and the staff of the Water and Sewer Department will
provide notice to the known developers in Fairfield and Richland Counties of
the institution of the new impact fee charges by making available the town’s
schedule of rates, as amended, and the date when the charges will take effect.
The Town Manager and the staff of the Water and Sewer Department will also
provide any person applying for service a copy of the new rate schedule and the
date when the new rates go into effect.
   (D)   Persons completing application for water and sewer service between the
adoption of this section and the effective date for the amended rate schedule
will be permitted to be connected under the existing rate schedule. Developers
who enter into a Water Utility Development and Service Agreement between
adoption of this section and 90 days, may receive the water capacity and
allotted meters without the adopted development impact fee. At the expiration
of this 90 day period, water and sewer applicants and Water Utility Development
and Service Agreements will include charges for developmental impact fees.
(Ord. 050515, passed 5-19-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Planning and zoning, see
Ch. 154
§ 50.07 INTERCONNECTION STANDARDS FOR SMALL GENERATION.
   (A)   Overview. This standard contains the requirements, in addition to
applicable rates and service regulations, for parallel interconnection of non-
utility owned single phase small generation systems which are rated at 10 kW or
less for residential customers and 500 kW or less for nonresidential customers.
      (1)   Scope. The standard applies only to "small" generators installed at
existing radial fed Electric Power System ("EPS") distribution customer sites,
with a determination of minimal impact.
      (2)   Purpose. This section was developed to provide a uniform simplified
standard for interconnecting certain small generators in the Town of Winnsboro.
      (3)   Limitations. The interconnection of generators is subject to
applicable town approved rates, operating policy, and service regulations in
addition to compliance with this standard.
      (4)   Conflicts. In case of conflict between any provision of a rate and
of this standard, the provisions of the rate shall prevail.
   (B)   References.
      (1)   IEEE 929 - (Recommended Practice for Utility Interface of
Photovoltaic (PV) Systems, latest published edition)
      (2)   IEEE 1547 - (Standard for Interconnecting Distributed Resources
with Electric Power Systems, latest published edition)
      (3)   IEEE P1547.1 - (Draft: Standard Conformance Test Procedures for
Interconnecting Distributed Energy Resources with Electric Power Systems)
      (4)   IEEE P1547.2 - (Draft: Application Guide for IEEE Standard 1547,
Interconnecting Distributed Resources with Electric Power Systems)
      (5)   IEEE P1547.3 - (Draft: Guide for Monitoring, Information Exchange,
and Control of Distributed Resources Interconnected with Electric Power
Systems)
      (6)   UL 1741 - (Inverters, Converts and Controllers for use in
Independent Power Systems, latest published edition)
      (7)   NFPA 70 - (National Electric Code, latest published edition)
      (8)   Town of Winnsboro - approved rates including, but not limited to,
rate schedules, riders, service regulations and operating policy.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLOSED TRANSITION OF LOADS. A make-before-break load transfer scheme, in
which the generator is operated in parallel with the EPS for a brief period of
time, to ensure that the load is maintained while in transition from the town
to the generator or vice versa. This transition scheme includes fast transfer
systems, generally less than 100 msec, and soft load systems where the parallel
condition is maintained for a number of seconds.
      CUSTOMER. The electric customer of record for the location where the
generation will be interconnected.
      DEPARTMENT. The Town of Winnsboro is the electric utility owning and
operating the EPS.
      EPS or ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM. The electric facilities of the town.
      GENERATOR. The distributed "generation system" and equipment to be
interconnected to the EPS.      
      IMPACT SCREEN. An internal process used by the town to determine the
effects the generator will have on the town's EPS.
      ISOLATION DEVICE. A manual load-break disconnect switch or safety switch
with a clear visible indication of switch position between the EPS and the
generator. The switch must have pad lock provisions for locking in the open
position. The switch must be visible to, and accessible to town personnel. The
switch must be in close proximity, and visible from, the customer's point of
electrical interconnection with the town's EPS. The switch must be labeled
"Generator Disconnect Switch". The switch may isolate the generator system and
its associated load from the EPS or disconnect only the generator from the EPS.
The town shall have access to the isolation device at all times.
      MOMENTARY PARALLEL SYSTEMS. A generator utilizing only a closed
transition mode of operation.
      POINT OF COMMON COUPLING. The point in the interconnection of a customer-
generator facility with an electric delivery system and shall have the same
meaning as in IEEE Standard 1547.   
   (D)   General Requirements.
      (1)   Service Regulations and Tariff/Rate Schedule. This standard for
interconnecting small generation with EPS is governed by the town's general
operating policy and electric rate schedules.
      (2)   Acceptance for Interconnection.
         (a)   Each application and generator is evaluated individually and
accepted or denied for interconnection with the town's EPS. The customer is
solely responsible for ensuring the safe installation and operation of the
generator. Generators shall not be interconnected until the requirements and
process described in this standard have been satisfied.
         (b)   The acceptance for interconnection is for the original applicant
only. Subsequent owners or occupants of a site with an interconnected generator
must submit a new application to the town. The existing customer assumes the
responsibility of ensuring a new customer is aware the new customer must re-
apply and obtain the town's written acceptance or the equipment must be removed
or disabled to prevent future interconnection and/or operation.
      (3)   Waiving Requirements. All requirements of this standard must be met
although the town may, in its sole discretion, waive all or some of the
requirements of this standard. Waivers must be issued in writing.
      (4)   Interconnect Cost. The customer will bear all the cost of
interconnection on the customer's side of the point of interconnection as well
as necessary changes or upgrades to the EPS to meet all technical and
protection requirements to address any power quality, reliability or safety
issues caused by the generator operation or connection to the EPS.
      (5)   Isolating or Disconnecting the Generator.
         (a)   The town may isolate the customer's premises and/or generator
from the town's EPS when necessary in order to construct, install, repair,
replace, remove, investigate, or inspect any of the town's equipment or part of
the town's system; or if the town determines that isolation of the customer's
premises and/or generator from the town's EPS is necessary because of
emergencies, forced outages, force majeure or compliance with prudent
electrical practices. Whenever feasible, the town shall give the customer
reasonable notice of the isolation of the customer's premises and/or generator
from the town's EPS. Notwithstanding any other provision of this standard, if
at any time the city determines that either the generator may endanger the
town's personnel or other persons or property, or the continued operation of
the customer's generator may endanger the integrity or safety of the town's
electric system, the town shall have the right to isolate the customer's
premises and/or generator from the town's EPS without notice.
         (b)   The town may disconnect the EPS electric service to any
generator determined to be malfunctioning, or not in compliance with this
standard. The customer must provide proof of compliance with this standard
before the electrical service will be reconnected.
      (6)   Limitation of Liability. Each party's liability to the other party
for any loss, cost, claim, injury, liability, or expense, including reasonable
attorney's fees, relating to or arising from any act or omission hereunder,
shall be limited to the amount of direct damage actually incurred. In no event
shall either party be liable to the other party for any indirect, special,
incidental, consequential, or punitive damages of any kind.
      (7)   Indemnification. The customer shall at all times indemnify, defend
and save the town it officers and employees harmless from any and all
liability, damages, losses, claims, including claims and actions relating to
injury or death of any person or damage to property, including property of the
town, demand suits, recoveries, costs and expenses, court costs, attorney's
fees, and all other obligations by or to third parties, arising out of or
resulting from the customer's action or inaction or the customer's obligations
hereunder, in any manner directly or indirectly connected with, growing out of
the operation of the customer's generator, except in cases of gross negligence
or intentional wrongdoing by town.
      (8)   Access to and Operation of the Generator. The customer shall limit
access to and operation of the generator to qualified persons and assumes the
responsibility of maintaining control of the operation of the generator.
      (9)   Insurance. The customer shall obtain and retain, for as long as its
generator is interconnected with the town's system, liability insurance which
protects the customer from claims for bodily injury and/or property damage. For
a non-residential customer the minimum coverage shall be comprehensive general
liability insurance with coverage at least $300,000 per occurrence and for a
residential customer the minimum coverage shall be at a standard homeowner's
insurance policy with liability coverage in the amount of at least $100,000 per
occurrence. The insurance shall be primary for all purposes. The customer shall
provide certificates evidencing this coverage as required by the town.
Automatic notification to town must be established for both annual renewals and
if appropriate any termination of such insurance. The town reserves the right
to refuse to establish, or continue the interconnection of the customer's
generator with the town's system, if such insurance is not in effect. The town
shall have the right to immediately terminate this agreement, immediately
terminate the interconnection and require the customer to permanently
disconnect the customer's generator from the EPS.
      (10)   Generator Alterations. Changes to the generator output capacity
and/or modification to the protection system required to meet this standard are
prohibited without submitting a new "Application to Interconnect Small
Generator" and obtaining a new acceptance from the town.
      (11)   Discontinuing Operation. The customer shall notify the town prior
to permanently discontinuing operation of the generator interconnected with the
town.
      (12)   Interconnection Application Fee. The nonrefundable interconnection
application fee covers only the application process for interconnection of
generators and shall be:
         (a)   For residential service customers: $100.00
         (b)   For nonresidential service customers: $200.00
      (13)   Termination Fee. A nonrefundable termination fee will be applied
in the event that the customer terminates this agreement as follows in addition
to any costs incurred by the town:
         (a)   For residential service customers: $100.00
         (b)   For nonresidential service customers: $200.00
   (E)   Generator, Inverter and Protective Equipment Technical Requirements.
      (1)   General. The town may elect to visit the site and verify compliance
with any requirement of these standards. The generator must be single phase
only for both residential customers and non-residential customers. Three phase
generators are not covered by this standard.
      (2)   Required Standards. The customer must certify the following
requirements:
         (a)   The installation of the generator and all equipment in the
system must comply with the latest published edition of IEEE 929 and IEEE 1547
as applicable.
         (b)   Future IEEE Standards and/or Recommended Practices: IEEE
P1547.1, P1547.2 and P1547.3 are still proposed draft documents and still in
working groups at the time of writing this standard. After these standards are
published interconnected generators may be required to comply with these IEEE
standards.
         (c)   The customer's inverter or interconnection protection system
must be tested and listed for compliance with the latest published edition of
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. (UL) 1741.
         (d)   The generator must pass the anti-islanding test UL 1741.
         (e)   The customer's inverter or interconnection protection system
must be manufactured after November 7, 2000.
         (f)    Any protection settings affecting anti-islanding performance
must not be adjusted after passing anti-islanding tests.
      (3)   Additional PV (Photovoltaic) System Requirements. The customer must
certify that the generator meets the following requirements;
         (a)   The installation of the generator and all equipment in the
system comply with the latest published edition of IEEE 929.
         (b)   The generator is a non-islanding type as defined in IEEE 929.
      (4)   Electrical Contractors and NEC Code Inspection. All installed
wiring, protection devices, cabinets and connectors, etc. must comply with the
latest published edition of the National Electric Code ("NEC") as used by the
local jurisdiction and all applicable local codes. An approved electrical
inspection by the authority having jurisdiction is required.
      (5)   Isolation Device. An isolation device as defined in § 50.07(C) is
required. The town in its sole discretion determines if the device is suitable.
   (F)   Screens and Requirements for Determination of Minimal Impact;
Limitations of EPS Facilities.
      (1)   General. The generator shall meet each of the following
requirements to qualify for interconnection and must continue to meet each
requirement after commissioning.
      (2)   EPS Capacity Limitation. The maximum rated output of the generator
or total aggregate of multiple generators shall not exceed the capacity or
ratings of the EPS facilities as determined by the town.
      (3)   Secondary, Service and Service Entrance Limitation. The generator
capacity shall be less than the capacity of the EPS secondary, service and
service entrance cable connected to the point of common coupling. The town will
make this determination after reviewing the EPS installed facilities.
      (4)   Transformer Loading Limitation. The generator shall not have the
ability to overload the EPS transformer or any EPS transformer winding beyond
manufacturer or nameplate ratings.
      (5)   Integration with EPS Grounding. The ground scheme of the generator
shall comply with IEEE 1547.
      (6)   Balance Limitation. The generator shall not create a voltage
imbalance of more than 3% if the EPS transformer, when the secondary connected
to the point of common coupling is a three-phase transformer.
      (7)   Any changes or upgrades to EPS to accommodate the generator will be
pursuant to division (D)(4) above.
   (G)   Commissioning, Maintenance and Inspections.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   The customer or customer's authorized representative shall
perform commissioning, and maintenance as outlined in this section for all
generator equipment. All testing shall be documented and the town shall be
granted the right to audit the documentation. The town reserves the right to
require and witness testing of the customer's generator.
         (b)   The customer's generator is subject to inspection by a town
representative at a mutually agreeable time, as the town deems necessary. The
town's inspection and/or witnessing the testing of the customer's equipment
shall not be construed as the town warranting or implying that the customer's
equipment is safe or reliable. The town shall not be liable to the customer or
others as a result of inspection and witnessing of tests of the customer's
generator or equipment.
      (2)   Commissioning. The manufacturer's recommended and required
commissioning, installation and functional tests shall be completed, with
successful results, in accordance with the manufacturer's published
recommendations. Commissioning tests in IEEE 1547 shall also be completed with
successful results unless these IEEE 1547 tests are duplications of the
manufacturer tests. After obtaining the final electrical inspection, the
customer shall invite the town to the commissioning test and perform the test
at a mutually agreed date.
      (3)   Maintenance and Testing. Maintenance shall be performed in
accordance with the manufacturer's published maintenance procedures. Periodic
testing shall be completed with successful results in accordance with the
manufacturer's published recommendations for periodic testing at, or before,
the recommended testing intervals. If the manufacturer does not publish
recommendations for periodic testing, suitable testing shall be performed that
assures proper protection for the EPS, at an interval not to exceed two years.
All test results shall be documented and available to the town for review upon
request.
      (4)   Failure of Test. If a generator fails any test, it shall be
disabled and the isolation device must be opened and locked until the equipment
is repaired.
   (H)   Procedures.
      (1)   Interconnection Request. The customer submits to the town an
"Application to Interconnect Small Generation" accompanied with the appropriate
interconnection application fee to a designated town contact or department.
      (2)   Impact Screens. The town accepts or rejects the application for
interconnection after reviewing the application and performing the screens
outlined in this standard. If the application is rejected, the customer may
request the town to reconsider interconnection outside the scope of this
standard. If the application is accepted the process will continue.
      (3)   Agreement for Interconnection. After the previous items in the
process are complete, the town will provide an agreement to the customer. Once
the customer returns the executed agreement to the town, the town will execute
the agreement and return a copy to the customer. Customer shall not
interconnect the generator to the town's EPS facilities unless an agreement
between customer and the town has been executed by both parties.
      (4)   Installation and Inspections. The customer installs the generator
and the customer is responsible for obtaining an approved electrical inspection
from the local authority having jurisdiction for the generator installation.
The customer shall request the inspector to forward a copy of the approved
inspection to the town contact processing the generator interconnect request.
      (5)   EPS Facilities. At the customer's expense the town will install or
alter the EPS facilities as necessary to accommodate the interconnection.
      (6)   Commissioning Test. The customer performs the required
commissioning test and forwards a confirmation letter to the town. The customer
shall invite the town to the commissioning test and perform the test at a
mutually agreed date and time if the town elects to attend.
      (7)   Completion of Application/Expiration Process. The application for
interconnection shall be valid for one year once the impact screen process is
completed.
(Ord. 121917-A, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 50.08 UTILITY SECURITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   After the effective date of this section the Utility Department, in
addition to a service agreement, impact fees and other connection charges, will
require a security deposit, as hereinafter set forth for opening new customer
accounts or reconnections of customers who were disconnected for a delinquent
account. Unless drawn by the town to pay a customer's past due bill, a security
deposit will not be returned to any customer, so long as the utility account
remains open.
   (B)   On the effective date of this section the Utility Department will
allow customers who have had their security deposit returned because they have
for two years not made a late payment on their utility account remain connected
without a security deposit until they seek reconnection of their account which
was disconnected for a delinquent bill. Upon reconnection unless drawn by the
town to pay a customer's past due bill, the new security deposit will not be
returned to any customer, so long as the utility account remains open.
   (C)   On the effective date of this section the Utility Department will
allow all customers who signed an application for electric, gas, water and
sewer service which contains the provision to return to the customer his or her
security deposit if he or she has no late payments in two years still in the
account's system to be carried out on the second anniversary of the signing of
the application provided the customer has complied with the contingency. The
security deposit of a customer who has not complied with the contingency will
be held by the town until drawn by the town to pay a customer's past due bill
or termination of the account. Any new account will have a security deposit.
   (D)   On the effective date of this section, the amount of the security
deposits for opening new accounts will be as follows:
      (1)   Residential occupied by landowner.
         (a)   Electricity only deposit $100.00;
         (b)   Water and sewer only deposit $75.00;
         (c)   Gas only deposit $75.00;
         (d)   Electric, water and sewer deposit $150.00;
         (e)   Gas, water and sewer deposit $150.00;
         (f)   Electric and gas deposit $150.00;
         (g)   Electric, gas, water, sewer deposit $300.00.
      (2)   Should an account be later terminated for nonpayment, the town
shall collect in addition to the unpaid sum, a reconnection fee and an
additional $50.00 in security. Each subsequent disconnection shall raise the
required deposit by $50.00.
      (3)   Standard commercial. A commercial business located on property with
a prior billing history where the sum of the highest three bills during the
prior 12 months is at a level of $999.99 or less. In the event there is no
prior usage at the location of service the deposit will be three times the
average uses for a 12 months period for a similar sized commercial building.
         (a)   Electric only deposit $200.00;
         (b)   Electric, water and sewer deposit $350.00;
         (c)   Electric and gas deposit $300.00;
         (d)   Water and sewer deposit $100.00;
         (e)   Gas only deposit $150.00;
         (f)   Electric, gas, water, and sewer deposit $400.00.
      (4)   Large commercial. A commercial business located on property with a
prior billing history where the sum of the highest three bills during the prior
12 months is at a level of $1,000.00 or more. In the event there is no prior
usage at the location of service the deposit will be three times the average
uses for a similar sized commercial building. The initial security deposit to
be determined through the use of the formula shown below.
   EXAMPLE: Customer A has estimated billing cycles one, two, three. The
estimated bills are; cycle one for $1,500.00, cycle two for $2,000.00, and
cycle three for $990.00. The deposit is the sum of the three cycles ($4,490.00)
divided by three equaling $1,946.66.
      (5)   Standard industrial. An industrial business having, for a period of
three billing cycles, an actual or estimated usage billing for three months at
a level of $999.99 or less. The security deposit is $600.00.
      (6)   Large industrial. An industrial business having, for a period of
three billing cycles, an actual or estimated usage for three months at a level
of $1,000.00 or more. The initial security deposit to be determined through the
use of the formula shown below.
   EXAMPLE: Customer A has estimated billing cycles one, two, three. The
estimated bills are; cycle one for $3,500.00, cycle two for $2,000.00, and
cycle three for $4,000.00. The deposit is the sum of the three cycles
($9,500.00) divided by three equaling $3,166.66.
(Ord. 010720, passed 2-4-2020; Ord. 010720-B, passed 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Disposal; containers required
   
51.03   Collection of garbage
   
51.04   Annual review
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Includes all animal, fruit and other vegetable matter and all
organic refuse resulting from the preparation of food.
   WASTE MATTER. Includes grass, ashes, tin cans, metal ware, broken glass,
crockery, stoneware and all non-putrescible wastes.
(1995 Code, § 6-1001) (Ord. passed 3-11-1958)
§ 51.02 DISPOSAL; CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or place any garbage,
within the meaning of this chapter, in any alley, street, river or other public
place within the town, nor shall any person deposit or place any garbage upon
private property, whether owned by that person or not, within the limits of the
town unless the garbage shall be enclosed in a suitable container.
   (B)   Containers shall be constructed of metal or other town-approved
materials in a manner as to be strong, not easily corrodible, rodent-proof and
shall have a tight-fitting cover. Containers shall have a capacity of not more
than 90 gallons nor less than 20 gallons and if one container is not sufficient
to hold the quantity of garbage accumulated between collections, a sufficient
number of containers shall be provided by the homeowner.
   (C)   Boxes, papers, tree cuttings and odd articles shall be in lengths not
to exceed five feet and not to exceed 70 pounds in weight.
(1995 Code, § 6-1002) (Ord. passed 3-11-1958; Ord. 08-18-09-A, passed 8-18-
2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 COLLECTION OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   The town, in furtherance of its decision to provide for the collection
of garbage as defined herein, will establish a department, identified for
budgetary purposes as the “Sanitation Department.” The function of the
Department will be the removal of garbage, as defined by §
51.01, generated within the town limits.
   (B)   The Sanitation Department will provide collection services to
residential properties and commercial properties (owned or leased) that limit
their waste generation to no more than two containers a week. A separate
collection for yard debris (tree limbs, leaves, grass cuttings, weeds, bushes,
vegetation and the like) will be provided, as scheduled, by Council resolution.
Residential-sized curbside containers provided by the town will be collected
once per week, or as hereafter scheduled by Council resolution.
   (C)   Commercial properties (owned or leased), located within town limits
that generate in excess of two containers per week or require special sized
containers for collection are required to contract with private haulers of
garbage, as Council finds the providing of these services will not produce
savings for commercial property using containers larger than described in §
51.02(B) for onsite retention of garbage and is not cost-effective for the
taxpayers of the town.
(1995 Code, § 6-1003) (Ord. passed 3-11-1958; Ord. 08-18-09-A, passed 8-18-
2009)
§ 51.04 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   (A)   The annual costs for garbage collection will be reviewed by Council in
May each year and Council will provide for the anticipated operational expenses
within the new budget including the percentage of the costs to be derived from
general tax revenues and from user fees.
   (B)   Fees in existence on the date of adoption of this section will remain
in effect until changed by a duly adopted ordinance of Council.
   (C)   The budget for the Sanitation Department will be established in
conformity with §
51.03(A), until the time as Council deems, by ordinance, that providing garbage
collection is not cost-effective for the town, that a more economical, healthy
and safe public or private alternative is available, and that dissolution of
the Department is in the best interest of the citizenry.
   (D)   This section shall take effect upon the date of adoption.
(Ord. 08-18-09-A, passed 8-18-2009)
CHAPTER 52: GAS REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
52.01   Rates subject to revision
   
52.02   Meters to be used
   
52.03   Appliances to conform to Building Code
   
52.04   No free service to be furnished
   
52.05   Gas not to be resold
   
52.06   Billing for service; due date; payable to Finance Director
   
52.07   Service contract; firm supply
   
52.08   Contract; preferred interruptible service
   
52.09   Rates based on supply cost
   
52.10   Payment of bills; disconnection
   
52.11   Tampering prohibited
   
52.12   Procedure for nonpayment termination of electrical and gas service
Rates and Charges
   
52.25   Title; application
   
52.26   Purpose
   
52.27   Gas rates and charges
   
52.28   Effective date
   
Appendix A: Forms
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.01 RATES SUBJECT TO REVISION.
   All rates prescribed by this chapter shall at all times be subject to
revision, and all rights of customers hereunder, except the right of any
customer who has heretofore entered into a contract for the purchase of
interruptible gas for industrial use, shall be in all respects subordinate to
the obligations and undertakings of the town and any bond which is may
hereafter undertake to issue.
(1995 Code, § 4-4001) (Ord. passed 4-21-1970)
§ 52.02 METERS TO BE USED.
   All gas shall be furnished on a metered basis, through meters of a standard
and approved design and type. A separate meter shall be installed for each
domestic, commercial and industrial user. The bills rendered by the town to its
natural gas customers shall always be determined from and in accordance with
the meter readings taken by the town at regular intervals.
(1995 Code, § 4-4002) (Ord. passed 4-21-1970)
§ 52.03 APPLIANCES TO CONFORM TO BUILDING CODE.
   Natural gas service shall not be made available to any premises unless the
gas piping, valves, fittings, fixtures or gas-burning devices upon the premises
conform to the requirements of the 2006 International Building Code as adopted
by the town and made a part of this code of ordinances. Services may be refused
or terminated by the town where it has been determined that the customer is
violating the provisions of the Building Code or other provisions of the code
of ordinances of the town pertaining to gas installations.
(1995 Code, § 4-4003) (Ord. passed 4-21-1970)
§ 52.04 NO FREE SERVICE TO BE FURNISHED.
   No gas shall be furnished, nor shall any service be rendered free of charge
to any person, firm, corporation, municipal corporation, political division or
subdivision or public agency, including the town, and any other municipality
served by the system, and each of the foregoing shall be classified in the same
manner as any other customer.
(1995 Code, § 4-4004) (Ord. passed 4-21-1970)
§ 52.05 GAS NOT TO BE RESOLD.
   Natural gas sold and delivered by the town to any customer shall not be
resold or delivered by the customer to any other person, and service may be
suspended by the town for any unauthorized sale or delivery.
(1995 Code, § 4-4005) (Ord. passed 4-21-1970)
§ 52.06 BILLING FOR SERVICE; DUE DATE; PAYABLE TO FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   All gas meters shall be read and bills rendered monthly. All bills shall be
due and payable, from and after the date specified thereon, at the office of
the Finance Director of the town.
(1995 Code, § 4-4006) (Ord. passed 4-21-1970)
§ 52.07 SERVICE CONTRACT; FIRM SUPPLY.
   The following terms, conditions and monthly charges for firm natural gas
shall be applicable to residential consumers, and to commercial users who
contract for the purchase of a firm supply of natural gas.
   (A)   This class of service shall be available to all customers within the
service area of the system who make the required deposit.
   (B)   The rate schedule for gas consumed shall be set by Council or its
designee.
   (C)   A deposit, which shall be set by Council, shall be paid by each
customer prior to the occurrence when service to the customer shall commence.
   (D)   No new natural gas service shall be made to any mobile home as herein
defined until the cost of installation of the natural gas service to the mobile
home has been paid in full by the customer to the town. Refund of the
installation costs shall not be made by the town in the event of removal of the
mobile home to another site, or for any other reason.
   (E)   Each separate dwelling unit, whether constituting a single house or a
unit in a duplex, apartment house or any other form of a dwelling building,
shall be considered as a separate unit for the purpose of this section, and
each unit shall be separately metered. A house trailer shall be considered a
separate dwelling unit within the meaning of this regulation. Similarly, each
commercial establishment shall be treated as a separate unit. A MOBILE HOME as
herein referred to is defined as being any house trailer, whether on wheels or
permanent foundation, and any prefabricated house which is capable of being
moved in substantial portions by transportation of the sections on wheels,
trucks or other conveyances.
(1995 Code, § 4-4007) (Ord. passed 4-21-1970)
§ 52.08 CONTRACT; PREFERRED INTERRUPTIBLE SERVICE.
   The following terms, conditions and charges shall apply to all industrial
customers who shall contract for preferred interruptible gas service.
   (A)   Service in this category shall be available on all occasions except
when the use of gas by those who have contracted for a firm supply of gas shall
exhaust the supply of gas available.
   (B)   Gas purchased shall be paid for at the rate established by Council or
its designee.
   (C)   A deposit set by Council shall be paid by each customer prior to the
occasion when service to the customer shall commence.
(1995 Code, § 4-4008) (Ord. passed 4-21-1970)
§ 52.09 RATES BASED ON SUPPLY COST.
   The rate schedule is based upon the town’s purchase of gas from the supplier
(s) as approved by the State Public Service Commission. If the supplier(s)
increases or decreases this gas tariff in the future, then adjustments to this
rate schedule may be made by the town to include the effect of the increases or
decreases, and the adjustments shall automatically become a part of this rate
schedule.
(1995 Code, § 4-4009) (Ord. passed 4-21-1970)
§ 52.10 PAYMENT OF BILLS; DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person and
by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or
in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official in charge
of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
(1995 Code, § 4-4010) (Ord. passed 4-21-1970)
§ 52.11 TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person or persons to tamper
with or change any gas meter, or to make any connection to the gas system
without written permission from the town, or to reconnect service when it has
been disconnected for nonpayment of a bill for service, until the bill has been
paid in full, including penalty, reconnection charge and, where applicable,
mileage charge.
(1995 Code, § 4-4011) (Ord. passed 4-21-1970) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.12 PROCEDURE FOR NONPAYMENT TERMINATION OF ELECTRICAL AND GAS SERVICE.
   These procedures are established to ensure the disconnection of electric and
natural gas service by the town for nonpayment is fair with regard to all
utility customers and that they are uniformly applied to all customers. These
procedures are established in accordance with S.C. Code §§ 5-31-2510, 5-31-
2520, 5-31-2530, 5-31-2540 and 5-31-2550.
   (A)   Collection cycle and schedule for disconnection of service for
nonpayment.
      (1)   The town will observe the following collection cycle and schedule
for disconnection of service for nonpayment.
         (a)   The collections cycle begins on the day the bill is printed and
dated. This is day zero in the cycle.
         (b)   On day 18, the account is past due. If this or any collections
event day occurs on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the collection event occurs
on the next business day.
         (c)   On day 18, a bill is noted as delinquent and a 1.5% late fee is
assessed.
         (d)   On or about day 30, a notice is printed on the next bill. This
is mailed on or about day 30.
         (e)   On day 40, the service is eligible for disconnection at the
property.
      (2)   If any of the above dates in the collection cycle fall on a
Saturday, Sunday or official holiday of the town, the collection event occurs
on the next business day. (The town hereafter in this procedure will be
referred to as the utility.)
   (B)   Notification procedures and time limits.  The utility is committed to
providing notice to all customers of the expected disconnection date. The
utility will provide either adequate notice of the disconnection date on the
original bill or send a separate notice via mail that provides notice of the
disconnection date. The notice shall be placed in the mail at least seven days
prior to the termination date.
      (1)   The utility shall observe the following disconnection procedures.
         (a)   The utility will generate a list each day at 8:00 a.m. of the
customers eligible for disconnection on that day.
         (b)   Utility staff members will review each account in the morning to
see if the customer has made a payment by 5:00 p.m. on the previous business
day to prevent the cut-off. Staff will also check to see if the customer is a
special-needs customer and/or if the customer will require third-party
notification (staff will contact these customers to arrange payment options).
         (c)   Customers eligible for disconnection are added to the cut-off
list.
         (d)   Service technicians will check the weather to determine whether
a disconnection is appropriate for that day.
         (e)   Service technicians will go into the field to make
disconnections. The utility ensures that all disconnections are completed by 2:
00 p.m. to give the customer time to come in and pay before the end of the
business day at 5:00 p.m.
         (f)   If the customer comes in and makes a payment before the end of
the business day, the utility will use its reasonable efforts to reconnect
service as soon as possible, provided the customer pays a $20 reconnection fee.
If the customer requests reconnection after 5:00 p.m. of the business day, an
additional $30 reconnection fee is required.
      (2)   As a matter of normal practice, the utility will not disconnect
electric or natural gas service on Fridays or on days before an official
utility holiday. However, at the utility’s discretion, disconnections may occur
on any day of the week, provided the utility has followed the notification and
disconnection procedures for nonpayment.
   (C)   Payment plans. The utility recognizes that at times customers will
face extraordinary circumstances that lead to difficult financial situations.
It is for these times the utility has established a payment plan program to
assist customers in satisfying their delinquent account.
      (1)   Payment plans for delinquent accounts will be managed as follows.
         (a)   Accounts charged-off as bad debt will require that the customer
pay half the bad debt balance plus the deposit to secure another account. The
balance on the bad debt must be paid in 30 days.
         (b)   A payment arrangement of up to four months may be offered with
the requirement that the bills on the payment plan and any current bills be
paid each month. The payment plan will be calculated to remove the arrears
amount within the agreed time (maximum of four months) while keeping ongoing
charge current.
         (c)   If a customer has extraordinary circumstances and is not
eligible for financial assistance, the utility may offer the customer a payment
arrangement. Customers with extraordinary circumstances are eligible for
arrangements. An EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCE is broadly defined as a significant
event or events affecting a customer’s life and ability to pay. Utility
customer service representatives will use their best judgment in applying the
extraordinary circumstances determination and are expected to seek advice and
confirmation from supervisory staff as needed. The representative granting
approval must enter appropriate account notes.
         (d)   Suitable payment arrangements will include a minimum 33% of the
delinquent amount paid at the time of payment arrangement and remaining
delinquent amount paid within a maximum period of four months. A minimum of
one-third of the delinquent amount, and all current amounts must be paid
monthly. Payment arrangements may be made only three times in a 12-month
period; otherwise payment in full is required.
      (2)   Payment arrangements may be made on closed accounts if the customer
does not have active service. Payment arrangements are not made on deposits for
new accounts, reconnection fees or administrative investigative fees.
   (D)   Availability of public or private assistance in paying bills.  
      (1)   Annually, the utility will include as part of the regular monthly
bill or as a bill stuffer a list of social service agencies that have agreed to
have their agency name and contact information sent to the customers.
      (2)   As part of the normal process of working with customers who request
assistance, the utility will provide information concerning financial
assistance programs in the local area. If interested, customers will need to
apply to the appropriate agency. The agency receiving the application will
evaluate their application and make their determination as to eligibility and
if appropriate, notify the utility of the results. The utility does not make
any financial assistance determinations.
   (E)   Standards for determining weather conditions. The utility will not
disconnect any electric or natural gas service on days that the forecast high
temperature is 99ºF or higher during cooling months or the forecast high
temperature is 35ºF or lower in heating months. These guidelines shall reflect
actual temperature forecasts and not the projected heat indexes or wind chill
forecasts. The forecast temperatures shall come from www.noaa.gov,
www.weather.com and www.accuweather.com at 8:00 a.m. on the day of scheduled
cut-off. If any of the three on-line resources shows a forecast high
temperature outside the disconnect threshold (above 99ºF or below 35ºF), the
utility will not disconnect service for non-payment on that day.
   (F)   Third-party notification system.  
      (1)   The utility is committed to a third-party notification program for
its electric and natural gas customers. As a result, at least by August 30 of
each year, the utility will notify all customers that a third-party
notification program is available. The customer will be asked to contact the
utility and complete a form that will be kept on file by the utility. A copy of
this form is attached. The form must be renewed by the customer annually to
ensure service continuity.
      (2)   Disconnection procedures for customers participating in the third-
party notification program are as follows: the utility will attempt to contact
the third party to notify them the cut-off is to occur one day prior to
disconnection, using the phone number provided by the customer on the third-
party notification form. The third party will have until the close of the
business day 5:00 p.m. to pay the amount due. The services will be disconnected
the following day.
   (G)   Recognition of special needs customers. The utility is committed to
meeting the requirements of our special needs customers and will keep on file a
master list of special needs customers.
      (1)   To be recognized as a special needs customer, the customer and a
state licensed healthcare provider are required to complete the medical
certification form (see Appendix A) certifying the customer or a member of the
customer’s household suffers from a health condition which would be especially
dangerous to the patient’s health if the electricity or natural gas service is
disconnected for non-payment. The form, documenting a qualifying condition,
must be faxed or e-mailed from the office of the licensed healthcare provider.
The certifying healthcare provider must be licensed in this state as a medical
doctor, physician’s assistant, nurse practitioner or advanced-practice
registered nurse.
      (2)   The form must be resubmitted by the customer annually by October 15
to continue participation in the program.
      (3)   All special needs customers will be encouraged to participate in
the third-party notification program. The third-party notification form (see
Appendix A) must be completed and submitted to the utility to participate in
the program and resubmitted annually by October 15 to continue participation in
the program.
      (4)   A special needs customer will be given the same privilege as other
customers to participate in a payment plan (detailed herein). If a special
needs customer is subject to disconnection and has not taken advantage of a
payment plan, the utility will observe the following schedule for disconnection
of service for nonpayment.
         (a)   The utility will notify the special needs customer and an
authorized third party (authorized by the special needs customer on the third-
party notification form) prior to the impending service disconnection.
         (b)   In addition to the third-party notification, the utility will
leave a notice at the front door of the special needs customer’s location
subject to disconnection one day prior to the schedule disconnection date. In
the event the stated terms are not met, the utility will disconnect service and
may do so at any time specified in the notification until those terms are met.
         (c)   After disconnection, if the customer pays in full or
arrangements are made to enter into a payment plan, the utility will use
reasonable efforts to reconnect service as soon as possible, provided the
customer pays a $20 reconnect fee during regular business hours and/or pays an
additional $30 fee after normal business hours.
      (5)   Special needs customers are in no way released from their
obligation to pay their monthly bill according to the terms as noted on the
monthly bill.
(Ord. 11-20-06-A, passed 11-20-2006; Ord. 040511, passed 4-5-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization, see S.C. Code §§ 5-31-2510, 5-31-2520, 5-31-2530, 5-31-2540
and 5-31-2550
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.25 TITLE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be more commonly known as the town’s Gas Utility
Department’s Schedule of Rates and Charges.
   (B)   The Schedule of Rates and Charges and service fees is located under §
52.27.
(Ord. 112006B, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. 120611, passed - -2011)
§ 52.26 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish a schedule of rates
and charges to be collected by the town from users of the town’s gas utility
system. These rates and charges shall be for the services provided, as
established for each user class as shown in §
52.27, and incorporated by an order that the town’s gas utility system will
recover, from each user and user class, revenue which is proportional to its
use of the town’s gas lines in terms of volume and load. User charges are
levied to defray the cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement
of the gas works and a reasonable return on the town’s investment for other
public uses that benefit the citizens of the town.
   (B)   User charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
(Ord. 112006B, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. 120611, passed - -2011)
§ 52.27 GAS RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Effective the first billing cycle after the effective date of the
adoption of this subchapter, each metered customer shall pay a monthly usage
charge in accordance with the schedule of gas rates and charges.
   (B)   Charges for monthly service shall be comprised of a basic facilities
charge, a distribution/transportation charge and purchased gas charge (PGC).
Additional meter and/or demand charges may apply to certain categories of
industrial customers.
Customers/Charge Type Rate
Customers/Charge Type       Rate
Residential Customers:
Basic facilities charge:    $16.26 per month (no usage included) plus
                            Calculated cost per therm delivered to the
Purchased gas charge:       customer each month in accordance with the cost of
                            gas purchased by the system plus
Distribution/transportation $0.925 per therm delivered to the customer during
charge:                     the month
Commercial Customers:
Basic facilities charge:    $35.56 per month (no usage included) plus
                            Calculated cost per therm delivered to the
Purchased gas charge:       customer each month in accordance with the cost of
                            gas purchased by the system plus
Distribution/transportation $0.925 per therm delivered to the customer during
charge:                     the month
Big Business:
Basic facilities charge:    $76.22 per month (no usage included) plus
                            Calculated cost per therm delivered to the
Purchased gas charge:       customer each month in accordance with the cost of
                            gas purchased by the system plus
Distribution/transportation $0.925 per therm delivered to the customer during
charge:                     the month
Industrial Gas Service:
                            $300.00 per month (no usage included) for
                            industrial customers with monthly consumption
Basic facilities charge:    under 2,500 decatherms;
                            $550.00 per month (no usage included) for
                            industrial customers with monthly consumption over
                            2,500 decatherms plus
Demand charge:           $14.00 per month per decatherm of contract demand
                            plus
                            Cost per decatherm delivered to the customer and
                            calculated each month in accordance with the cost
Purchased gas charge:       of gas purchased by the system plus overrun
                            penalties to town, if incurred under their
                            wholesale gas contract, plus
Distribution/transportation $1.31 per decatherm delivered to the customer
charge:                     during the month
Daily deliveries in excess of an industrial customer’s contract demand are
considered interruptible. The customer will be billed monthly for excess
deliveries on the basis of the rates charges for interruptible deliveries
outlined below.
Interruptible Industrial Gas Service:
                            $300.00 per month (no usage included) for firm
                            customers with monthly consumption under 2,500
Basic facilities charge:    decatherms;
                            $550.00 per month (no usage included) for firm
                            customers with monthly consumption over 2,500
                            decatherms plus
                            Cost per decatherm delivered to the customer and
                            calculated each month in accordance with the cost
Purchased gas charge:       of gas purchased by the system plus overrun
                            penalties to town, if incurred under their
                            wholesale gas contract, plus
Distribution/transportation $1.30 per decatherm delivered to the customer
charge:                     during the month
All gas delivered under this category is subject to interruption because of
unavailability of gas from the town’s wholesale supplier or unavailable line
capacity within the town’s system.
Interruptible Only Industrial Customers:
Interruptible only industrial customers shall be charged, based upon their
particular needs and requirements. Customers currently falling under this
category and their established charges are:             Performance Fibers
Transportation Only Industrial Customers:
Transportation only industrial customers shall be charged, based upon their
particular needs and requirements. Customers currently falling under this
category and their established charges are:
Basic facilities charge:    $1,050.00 per month (no usage included)
Meter charge:               $200.00 per month
                            $1.31 per decatherm delivered for the first 350
Demand/transportation       decatherms per day;
charge:                     $1.05 per decatherm delivered over 350 decatherms
                            per day
 
   (C)   These rates and charges reflect those adopted with the town’s budget
ordinance and shall take effect upon signing, with billings for monthly service
sent on or after May 19, 2020.
(Ord. 112006B, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. 120611, passed - -2011; Ord. passed 5-19-
2020)
§ 52.28 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions set forth in this subchapter shall be in full force and
effect from and after its passage and adoption.
(Ord. 112006B, passed 12-5-2006; Ord. 120611, passed - -2011)
APPENDIX A: FORMS
Form
   
A-1   Special Needs Customer Medical Certification Form
   
A-2   Third-Party Notification Form
FORM A-1. SPECIAL NEEDS CUSTOMER MEDICAL CERTIFICATION FORM.
TOWN OF WINNSBORO
SPECIAL NEEDS CUSTOMER MEDICAL CERTIFICATION FORM
   (Please Type or Print All Information)
Customer Information to be completed by customer:
Name                                                                 Account
Number                                             
Social Security Number
                                                                                                            
Work Phone                          Home Phone
                             Cell Phone                                    
Account
Address                                                                                    
Patient’s Name
                                                                                                                      
Please read the following and initial each one:
_____   I certify that the patient named above is a member of my household
residing at the above listed address.
_____   I understand that this Certificate will expire on October 15 and must
be resubmitted annually by this date to continue participating in the Special
Needs Customer Program.
_____   I further understand that this in no way releases me from my obligation
to pay my monthly bill in accordance with the standard payment terms.
Customer’s Signature                                                  Date
                                                       
Certificates are not issued for water service that is subject to disconnection.
Medical Information below to be completed by a SC Licensed Healthcare Provider
I certify that I have examined the patient named above and, in my professional
opinion as a medical doctor, physician’s assistant, nurse practitioner or
advanced-practice registered nurse licensed by the State of South Carolina, I
certify it would be especially dangerous to my patient’s health if the
electricity and/or natural gas is disconnected for nonpayment of bills for the
reason circled below. (The town will attempt to notify these customers of a
planned outage whenever reasonably possible.)
 
Nebulizer for asthma, lungs Feeding (pump) machine    Oxygen machine
Heart monitor               Infant apnea monitor      Ventilator/respirator
Home dialysis treatment     Refrigeration for insulin
 
(CPAP machines for adult sleep apnea do not qualify.)
A detailed explanation for reasons not mentioned above must be submitted for
review.
Health Care Provider Name                                       Office Phone
                                         
SC Medical License Number                                   
Circle one that applies: Medical Doctor, Physician’s Assistant, Nurse
Practitioner, Advanced-Practice Registered Nurse
Office Address
                                                                                                                         
Health Care Provider Signature
                                                      Date
                                    
This form must be faxed (803-635-3697) or e-mailed (kbelton@truvista.net) from
the office of the SC licensed healthcare provider to the Town of Winnsboro.
Special Needs Customers are in no way released from their obligation to pay
their monthly bills according to the terms as noted on the bill.
(Ord. 11-20-06-A, passed 11-20-2006)
FORM A-2: THIRD-PARTY NOTIFICATION FORM.
TOWN OF WINNSBORO
THIRD-PARTY NOTIFICATION FORM
(Please Type or Print All Information)
Name                                                                Account
Number                                            
Social Security Number ____________________
Work Phone                                 Home Phone
                           Cell Phone                                 
Account Address
                                                                                                                       
The Town of Winnsboro is committed to a third-party notification system for its
electric/natural gas customers. The intent of this program is to offer our
customers the opportunity to have a third party notified in the event of
disconnection of electric and natural gas service due to non-payment of bills.
Customers wishing to take advantage of this system must complete this form in
its entirety and return it to P.O. Box 209, Winnsboro, SC 29180. By submitting
this form, the customer authorizes the Town of Winnsboro to release his or her
utility account information to any or all of the parties listed by the customer
below. The customer also assumes the responsibility to notify the Town of
Winnsboro of any changes to the contact information listed on this form.
In the event that service for the above utility account is scheduled for
disconnection, the town will call the telephone numbers for the customer and
the third party listed on the Third-Party Notification Form to notify them of
the utility’s intention to disconnect the customer’s service.
This form relates to electric and natural gas service and the town reserves the
right to disconnect any other service for which payment is past due.
In the event that the town attempts to notify the account holder (customer) and
the authorized third party listed below and is unable to reach any or all
parties, the town will continue with service disconnection as scheduled.
This form must be renewed annually by October 15 to ensure service continuity.
Authorized Third Party:
Name
                                                                                                                                      
Work Phone                                 Home Phone
                           Cell Phone                                
Street Address
                                                                                                                          
City, State, Zip
                                                                                                                         
Customer Authorization:
I,                            , understand and agree to the terms listed herein
and authorize the Town of Winnsboro to notify the above authorized third party
as to the status of payment or non-payment of my Town of Winnsboro utilities
account. 1 further understand that failure of the Town of Winnsboro, upon
reasonable attempt described here, to notify me or the authorized third party
will not preclude the Town of Winnsboro from disconnecting my electric service.
Customer Signature:                                                       Date:
                                               
Customer Printed Name
                                                                                                            
Third Party Signature:
                                                    Date:
                                                
Third Party Printed Name
                                                                                                         
Date:                                                 
(Ord. 11-20-06-A, passed 11-20-2006)
CHAPTER 53: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
Water Service
   
53.01   Service
   
53.02   Meter responsibility
   
53.03   Tampering with meter
   
53.04   Payment of utility bills generally; penalty and discontinuance of
service for delinquency or nonpayment; reconnection charges
   
53.05   Free service prohibited
   
53.06   Shortages
   
53.07   Maintenance, operation, service
   
53.08   Water customer accounts
   
53.09   Right to enter property
   
53.10   Hazardous connections
   
53.11   Cross-connections
   
53.12   Public health and safety
   
53.13   Records and billing
Water Rates, Tap Fees, Deposits and the Like
   
53.25   Service deposits
   
53.26   Water taps
   
53.27   Water rates
Drought Management and Response
   
53.40   Purpose and intent
   
53.41   Definitions
   
53.42   Drought Management Plan
   
53.43   Drought response ordinance; policy and authority
   
53.44   Moderate drought phase
   
53.45   Severe drought phase
   
53.46   Extreme drought phase
   
53.47   Rationing
   
53.48   Enforcement of restrictions
   
53.49   Variances
   
53.50   Status of provisions
Violations
   
53.65   Non-service
   
53.66   Service discontinuance
 
   
53.99   Penalty
WATER SERVICE
§ 53.01 SERVICE.
   The town shall provide necessary utility service to the customer at the
point of street right-of-way from meter connections or property line easement
established for the utility service. Service lines and collection lines from
the right-of-way or property line easement shall be installed, owned and
maintained by the customer subject to regulations given in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 4-2001) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.02 METER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The town shall be responsible for all damaged meters due to ordinary wear,
improper installation or servicing by the town. The customer shall be
responsible for all damaged or destroyed meters resulting from negligence and
shall be charged for repairs or replacement based on the current prevailing
prices and repair rates.
(1995 Code, § 4-2002) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.03 TAMPERING WITH METER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, tamper with or “straight
line” a water service, or bypass a meter which has been installed for the
purpose of measuring water service. Any meter found in a condition which would
cause the meter to inaccurately measure the use of water or the attachment to a
meter or distribution wire of any divide, mechanism or wire which would permit
the use of unmetered water or would cause a meter to inaccurately measure the
use thereof shall be evidence that either the person in whose name the meter
was installed or the person for whose benefit it was diverted caused the water
to be diverted from going through the meter or the meter to inaccurately
measure the use of water.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than authorized town
personnel to restore water service when the service was discontinued for non-
payment. If any person other than authorized personnel causes water service to
be restored prior to paying in full the outstanding balance, then it shall be
evidence that either the person in whose name the meter was installed or the
person who benefitted caused the service to be restored.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining
permission from the appropriate town official, to tamper with, adjust, run on,
turn off or exercise any control over any fire hydrant, water valve, water
service or any related object (except in case of extreme emergency) which
belongs to the town and used to supply and distribute water.
(1995 Code, § 4-2003) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 PAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS GENERALLY; PENALTY AND DISCONTINUANCE OF
SERVICE FOR DELINQUENCY OR NONPAYMENT; RECONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   All utility bills are due and payable 15 days from the date of
billing. If the total amount of the charges has not been received on the
fifteenth day, a penalty of 1.5% shall be applied to the entire bill. If unpaid
after 25 days from the date of billing, services shall be discontinued.
   (B)   When any of the due dates for discontinuance of service fall on a
Saturday, Sunday or holiday, an additional day shall be granted before the
discontinuance of service.
   (C)   A charge shall be levied for reestablishing utility service after cut-
off for nonpayment. If the service is reestablished after normal working hours,
the charge shall be one and one-half times the normal fee.
   (D)   Persons moving into a location where utility service is connected and
on, must notify the town of their occupancy within 48 hours. Failure to notify
the town in the specified time shall constitute a misdemeanor on the part of
the occupant and that person shall be responsible for all charges then due and
payable for that service.
   (E)   Persons moving from a location where utility service is connected and
on, must notify the town immediately and request discontinuance of service.
Failure to notify the town as stated above shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 4-2004) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982; Ord. passed 10-2-1984) Penalty,
see §
53.99
§ 53.05 FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No water service shall be furnished, nor shall any service be rendered free
of charge to any person, firm, corporation, municipal corporation, political
division or subdivision or public agency, including the town, and any other
municipality served by the system, and each of the foregoing shall be
classified in the same manner as any other customer.
(1995 Code, § 4-2005) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 SHORTAGES.
   When it shall be determined by the Town Council that a water supply shortage
is imminent for any reason, the Council may, by resolution, restrict the
quantity of water furnished to any customer, and the restrictions may be
imposed on customers outside the town limits before restricting the quantity of
water furnished within the town limits.
(1995 Code, § 4-2006) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.07 MAINTENANCE, OPERATION, SERVICE.
   The town shall provide personnel to maintain, operate and service the system
as required by the rules and regulations of the State Department of Health and
Environmental Control and the State Water Pollution Control Authority. The town
agrees to use reasonable diligence in providing a regular and uninterrupted
supply of potable water and services, but in case the supply of water shall be
interrupted or fail by accident, deficiency or any cause whatsoever, the town
shall not be liable for the interruption or failure, and the town shall not be
liable for any damages sustained by the customer by reason thereof.
(1995 Code, § 4-2007) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.08 WATER CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS.
   All services will be metered and shall be read and billed monthly as
previously stated. Where water meters fail to register or operate correctly,
bills shall be arrived at by computing an average bill based on the immediate
past two or three billings for the account. Where water consumption is
abnormally high due to leakage or broken pipes on the customer’s property, the
town shall have the authority to adjust the customer’s bill, taking into
consideration the reasons for the leak and the customer’s promptness in having
the leak repaired. Upon proof of repair the adjustment will be made by
computing an “average bill” for the account, subtracting the average bill from
the total consumption, dividing this amount by two and adding this amount back
to the average bill.
(1995 Code, § 4-2008) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.09 RIGHT TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   The town shall have the right to enter the customer’s property without
notice for the purpose of making repairs, disconnecting or reconnecting
service, or reading meters.
(1995 Code, § 4-2009) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.10 HAZARDOUS CONNECTIONS.
   The town shall make inspections of existing building’s plumbing and if any
condition is found which constitutes a health hazard or potential health hazard
to the water supply, the town shall require immediate corrective action be
taken by the customer or sever the water connection until the hazard is
corrected by the customer to be satisfaction of the town.
(1995 Code, § 4-2010) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.11 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   Under no circumstances shall any part of the water system be cross-connected
in any way with any other water source except as specifically approved by the
State Department of Health and Environmental Control. Any hazardous cross-
connection between the water system and any source of contamination is
prohibited.
(1995 Code, § 4-2011) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.12 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   In the interest of the public health and safety, the town shall be permitted
to take emergency action as may be deemed necessary in the operation of the
water system, including the right to close down any water line or portion of
the water system for the purpose of making corrections, alterations or repairs.
(1995 Code, § 4-2012) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.13 RECORDS AND BILLING.
   While the town will make every reasonable effort to see that each customer
receives its bill, no responsibility will be assumed for non-delivery where the
bill has been mailed at the post office, provided the bill has been mailed to
the address which the customer has reported to the town. All records of
business transactions, billings and receipts of funds shall be maintained by
the Town Finance Officer.
(1995 Code, § 4-2013) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
WATER RATES, TAP FEES, DEPOSITS AND THE LIKE
§ 53.25 SERVICE DEPOSITS.
   As security for the payment of all bills for utility service, each account
may be required to deposit a sum of money which shall be placed in escrow and
may be returned to the customer when the service is discontinued and the final
billing has been paid in full. Service deposits may be refunded from time to
time by the Town Council. Upon payment of the deposits, the customer shall
enter into a meter contract acknowledging responsibilities and provisions of
this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 4-2021) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.26 WATER TAPS.
   No water connection shall be made until the tap fee as set from time to time
by the Town Council is paid. All taps and connections shall be made using
standard equipment and materials.
(1995 Code, § 4-2022) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.27 WATER RATES.
   Water rates for monthly service shall be as fixed from time to time by the
Town Council. In addition to these rates, Council reserves the right to
negotiate and grant special rates to large industrial or commercial customers
as deemed to be in the best interest of the town. The town also reserves the
right to change or adjust utility rates from time to time as needed.
(1995 Code, § 4-2023) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982; Ord. 09-16-08, passed 9-16-2008)
DROUGHT MANAGEMENT AND RESPONSE
§ 53.40 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The town understands the fundamental need to make efficient use of the
limited and valuable water resource under its stewardship in order to protect
the public’s health and safety and environmental integrity. The purpose of this
document is to establish a plan and procedures for managing water demand and
evaluating supply options before and during a drought-related water shortage.
The intent is to satisfy the requirements of the Drought Response Act of 2000
(S.C. Code §§ 49-23-10 et seq., as amended) with the goal of achieving the
greatest public benefit from domestic water use, sanitation and fire protection
and to provide water for other purposes in an equitable manner. Therefore, the
town has adopted this Drought Management Plan (§
53.42) and drought response ordinance (§§
53.43 through
53.50) that provide the policies and the authority to fulfill this obligation.
The Drought Management Plan outlines the framework by which the town will
internally prepare for water shortages. The ordinance provides the regulations
by which the town will manage and control its customer water usage during
various levels of a drought.
(Ord. 06-03-03, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 53.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools and waterfalls.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USE.  Water use integral to the production of
goods and/or services by any establishment having profit as its primary aim.
   CONSERVATION. Reduction in water use to prevent depletion or waste of the
resource.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company or organization using finished water owned or
supplied by the town.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water use for personal needs or for household purposes
such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation or for cleaning a
residence, business, industry or institution.
   DROUGHT ALERT PHASES. There are four drought alert phases to be determined
by the Drought Response Committee for this state. The four phases are:
      (1)   Incipient drought;
      (2)   Moderate drought;
      (3)   Severe drought; and
      (4)   Extreme drought.
   DROUGHT RESPONSE COMMITTEE. A committee composed of state and local
representatives created for the purpose of coordinating responses to water
supply shortages within drought management areas and making recommendations for
action to the State Department of Natural Resources and/or the Governor. The
COMMITTEE is composed of state agency representatives from the State Emergency
Management Division of the Office of the Adjutant General, State Department of
Health and Environmental Control, State Department of Agriculture, State
Forestry Commission and State Department of Natural Resources, as well as local
committees representing counties, municipalities, public service districts,
private water suppliers, agriculture, industry, domestic users, regional
councils of government, commissions of public works, power generation
facilities, special purpose districts and soil and water conservation
districts.
   DROUGHT RESPONSE MANAGEMENT AREAS.   
      (1)   There are four drought management areas corresponding to the major
river basins in the state. The four areas are:
         (a)   West or Savannah;
         (b)   Central or Santee;
         (c)   Northeast or Pee Dee; and
         (d)   Southern or Ashepoo, Combahee and Edisto.
      (2)   In order to prevent overly broad response to drought conditions,
drought response measures shall be considered within individual drought
management areas or within individual counties, as applicable.
   ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water used specifically for firefighting, maintaining
in-stream flow requirements and to satisfy federal, state or local public
health and safety requirements.
   FINISHED WATER. Water distributed for use after treatment. The terms WATER
USE, WATER USER and WATER CUSTOMER refer to FINISHED WATER USE unless otherwise
defined.
   INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water used by government, public and private
educational institutions, churches and places of worship, water utilities and
organizations within the public domain.
   IRRIGATION WATER USE. Water used to maintain gardens, trees, lawns, shrubs,
flowers, athletic fields, rights-of-way and medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Categories of water use other than essential water
use. Examples of NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE include landscape irrigation and the
washing of buildings, parking lots, automobiles and the like.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT (REU). An equivalency unit defined to be equal to one
single-family residence. The town’s allocated water capacity equals 200 gallons
per day per REU.
   SC DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES. The state agency with primacy to
implement the provisions of the Drought Response Act, being S.C. Code §§ 49-23-
10 et seq.
   WATER SUPPLY SHORTAGE. Lack of adequate, available water caused by drought
to meet normal demands.
(Ord. 06-03-03, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 53.42 DROUGHT MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Introduction. To ensure that the town adequately manages its water
system during drought-related conditions, an organized plan is necessary for
system operation and reliability, proper communications, effective coordination
and ultimate allocation of water use. Prior planning will compliment the town’s
ability to respond to drought conditions and to enforce the related ordinance
(§§ 53.43 through 53.50).
   (B)   Designation of water system drought response representative.
Administrating a drought plan requires the skills needed to undertake a
comprehensive public information program and the judgement required to deal
with equity issues arising from enforcement of a mandatory program. Someone who
has these skills will be selected by the water system to manage the water
system’s program and serve as the principal contact for the news media as the
water system’s drought response representative. The drought response
representative for the town is the Water Department Director. His address is PO
Box 209, Winnsboro, SC 29180, phone: (803) 635-4121, e-mail: winnl@infoave.net.
   (C)   Description of water system layout, water sources, capacities and
yields.  The town is located in the Central Drought Response Management Area of
this state.
      (1)   The system serves approximately 9,500 people throughout the county
by way of 3,612 residential taps and 585 commercial taps. The town also serves
a secondary population of 3,400 people by way of two master-meter connections.
Therefore the total population served is 12,900 people.
      (2)   A brief description of the layout of the water system follows. The
primary raw water intake is located on Mill Creek reservoir, a 192-acre lake
that is owned by the town. There is a three-level intake structure and the raw
pumps are located at the end of a concrete pier. Both variable speed raw water
pumps are 300 HP vertical turbine pumps rated at 2,777 GPM and 4.0 MGD. A new
pump station has been recently added at the Rion Rock Quarry for recharging the
Mill Creek Reservoir. A new pump station in this same quarry is under
construction at this time. In addition, there is another supplemental raw water
source for the town. This is the Sand Creek pump station. This source has a 65
MGD withdrawal rate and is used to reduce the withdrawal rate from the
reservoir.
      (3)   There are two on-site finished water storage clearwells at the
plant. One is a rectangular 230,000-gallon tank and the other is a round
200,000-gallon tank. From these, water is pumped into the distribution system.
There are seven storage tanks throughout the distribution system ranging in
size from 75,000 gallons to 875,000 gallons.
   (D)   Identification of water system specific drought or water shortage
indicators.  Operators of every water system must develop historical trends
that are valuable indicators of a system’s ability to meet demand when demand
begins to outpace supply. The town has developed triggers for use during
drought or demand water shortages that describe when specific phases of the
drought response ordinance are implemented. The system triggers are as follows:
      (1)   Moderate Drought Phase:
         (a)   Reservoirs are 80% full;
         (b)   Storage falls below 25% of capacity; and
         (c)   Stream flow is less than 2.8 cubic feet per second.
      (2)   Severe Drought Phase:
         (a)   Reservoirs are 65% full;
         (b)   Storage falls below 35% of capacity; and
         (c)   Stream flow is less than 1.7 cubic feet per second.
      (3)   Extreme Drought Phase:
         (a)   Reservoirs are 50% full;
         (b)   Storage falls below 45% of capacity; and
         (c)   Stream flow is less than 1.0 cubic foot per second.
   (E)   Alternative water supply sources. Successful drought management
requires a comprehensive program by the water utility. The town identifies the
following alternative water sources: the old town reservoir, which is located
adjacent to the current town reservoir, Sand Creek pumping station and Rion
Quarry #1 and #2. Together these alternate water supplies yield approximately
1.1 billion gallons of water. The old town reservoir and both quarry pits are
piped directly into the existing town reservoir. These sources are utilized
when the level in the reservoir drops and is not being replenished fast enough
to offset the water demand. The Sand Creek pumping station can be pumped
directly to the water plant or into the reservoir.
   (F)   Description of pre-drought planning efforts. Before the occurrence of
a water supply shortage and the need to implement the emergency provisions of
the ordinance, it is important that certain pre-response measures be taken with
the aim of conserving the system’s source water, as well as the water
distributed to the customer.
      (1)   Actions taken. In regards to the conservation measures listed
below, the town has taken the following actions:
         (a)   Identification of all major water users of the system: Town of
Ridgeway and Mid-County Water System;
         (b)   Identification of those users with whom there are conservation
agreements. Once the drought ordinance is issued, these users are contacted and
asked to inform their users to conserve water: Town of Ridgeway and Mid-County
Water System; and
         (c)   A vigorous public education program is critical for achieving
substantial water use reductions. An effective public outreach program will
keep the public informed about the water supply situation, what actions will
mitigate drought emergency problems and how well the public is doing in terms
of meeting the program goals. Keeping the public involved, informed and
participating in the decision-making process is key to implementing an
effective Drought Management Plan.
      (2)   Description of the utility’s efforts to develop an effective
drought-related public education program. The town has a local access channel
on the Fairfield Communications cable network. Drought information is posted on
this channel and customers are kept informed of the actions of the State
Drought Committee, as well as what measures the town is taking to conserve or
limit water use. In addition, press releases are run in the local paper, the
Herald-Independent, to ensure the public stays informed of the drought.
   (G)   Capital planning and investment.
      (1)   Description of capital planning and investment for system
reliability and demand forecasting.  Water utilities routinely find that
capital improvements to the system strongly enhance their ability to get
through times of drought. It is important that every water utility aggressively
plan and build for future needs. The utility must continue to provide for
system operation flexibility, improved pumping and storage capacity and new
technologies to meet the demands of tomorrow.
      (2)   Description of the utility’s capital improvement program and how
past efforts have enhanced the system’s ability to meet demand during drought
conditions. The town water treatment plant adjusts the schedule as necessary in
order to meet the demands of the customers. During times of extreme hot weather
and higher than usual water consumption, the operators at the treatment plant
are prepared to run a 24-hour schedule in order to meet the demands of the
system. The town is currently constructing two new water tanks that will allow
for increased storage capacity. The town actively pursues grants and any
funding that will allow for the upgrade and maintenance of the water
distribution system. There are currently plans underway to enlarge the raw
water capacity from the reservoir to the treatment plant. Once this new line is
installed, the treatment plant capacity will reach 4.0 MGD. In addition, the
town also has a capital improvement plan underway to upgrade the telemetry
system for the entire distribution system. This new system will allow better
control over the water levels in each tank and immediate feedback from pumps
and tanks in the distribution system.
   (H)   Description of other system improvements the utility should consider
to prepare for future droughts and increasing water demands.
      (1)   In order to prepare for future droughts, the water distribution
department needs to continue its preventive maintenance program in order to
identify any leaking pipes, meters, hydrants or valves that would lead to loss
of water in the distribution system; and
      (2)   In order for the water treatment plant to be able to supply and
treat a higher volume of water, once the new raw water line has been installed,
the plant will more than likely have to be upgraded. Personnel are currently
evaluating the filter system at the plant in order to determine if an upgrade
will be necessary in order to treat larger amounts of water.
(Ord. 06-03-03, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 53.43 DROUGHT RESPONSE ORDINANCE; POLICY AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The objective of the drought response ordinance codified as §§
53.43 through
53.50 is to establish authority, policy and procedure by which the town will
take the proper actions to manage water demand during a drought-related
shortage. The ordinance satisfies the requirements of the Drought Response Act
of 2000, being S.C. Code §§ 49-23-10 et seq. and has the goal of achieving the
greatest public benefit from limited supplies of water needed for domestic
water use, sanitation and fire protection and of allocating water for other
purposes in an equitable manner.
   (B)   This subchapter outlines the actions to be taken for the conservation
of water supplied by the town. These actions are directed both towards an
overall reduction in water usage and the optimization of supply.
   (C)   To satisfy these goals, the town hereby adopts the following
regulations and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of water. This
subchapter is hereby declared necessary for the protection of public health,
safety and welfare and shall take effect upon its adoption by the town.
   (D)   If it becomes necessary to conserve water in its service area due to
drought, the town is authorized to issue a proclamation that existing
conditions prevent fulfillment of the usual water use demands. The proclamation
is an attempt to prevent depleting the water supply to the extent that water
use for human consumption, sanitation, fire protection and other essential
needs becomes endangered.
   (E)   Immediately upon issuance of this proclamation, regulations and
restrictions set forth under this subchapter shall become effective and remain
in effect until the water supply shortage has ended and the proclamation
rescinded.
   (F)   Water uses that are regulated or prohibited under this subchapter are
considered to be non-essential and continuation of the uses during times of
water supply shortages is deemed to constitute a waste of water, subjecting the
offender(s) to penalties.
(Ord. 06-03-03, passed 6-3-2003)
Editor’s note:
   The ordinance codified as §§
53.43 through
53.50 officially approved the Drought Management Plan of §
53.42.
§ 53.44 MODERATE DROUGHT PHASE.
   (A)   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that a moderate
drought condition is present and is expected to persist and/or upon
determination by the town that a moderate water supply shortage exists based on
trigger levels, the town will seek voluntary reductions from its customers in
the use of water for all purposes and voluntary reductions on using water
during certain peak water demand periods. Specifically, the goal during this
phase is to achieve a reduction of 20% in residential water use and 15% in
other water uses, such as commercial, industrial, institutional and irrigation;
and a reduction in overall water use of 15%.
   (B)   To accomplish this, the town will take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a proclamation to be released to local media, town customers
and to the State Department of Natural Resources Drought Information Center
that moderate drought conditions are present;
      (2)   Provide written notification to the State Department of Natural
Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the service area of the water system the voluntary
conservation measures that the customers are requested to follow during
moderate drought conditions, including:
         (a)   Reduce residential water use to 65 gallons per person per day
and a maximum of 200 gallons per household per day;
         (b)   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
         (c)   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
         (d)   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
         (e)   Eliminate the domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars and
the like;
         (f)   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
         (g)   Reduce watering of lawns, plants, trees, gardens, shrubbery and
flora on private or public property to the minimum necessary. Encourage outdoor
watering to be done during off-peak hours;
         (h)   Reduce the amount of water obtained from fire hydrants for
construction purposes, fire drills or for any purpose other than firefighting
or flushing necessary to maintain water quality; and
         (i)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers,
including but not limited to the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic life; and
            3.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system;
      (4)   Cease to install new irrigation taps on the water system; and
      (5)   Continue to encourage and educate customers to comply with
voluntary water conservation.
(Ord. 06-03-03, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 53.45 SEVERE DROUGHT PHASE.
   (A)   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that a severe
drought condition is present and is expected to persist and/or upon
determination by the town that a severe water supply shortage exists based on
trigger levels, the town will seek voluntary reduction in the use of water for
all purposes and mandatory restrictions on nonessential usage and restrictions
on times when certain water usage is allowed. Specifically, the goal during
this phase is to achieve a reduction of 25% in residential water use, 20% in
all other water use categories, and a reduction in overall water use of 20%.
   (B)   To accomplish these goals, the town will take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a proclamation to be released to the local media, town
customers and to the State Department of Natural Resources Drought Information
Center that severe drought conditions are present;
      (2)   Provide written notification to the State Department of Natural
Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the service area of the water system the voluntary
conservation measures and mandatory restrictions to be placed on the use of
water supplied by the utility, including:
         (a)   Voluntary reduction of residential water use by the utility’s
customers to 55 gallons per person per day and a maximum of 170 gallons per
household or REU per day;
         (b)   Control landscape irrigation by the utility’s customers by
staggering watering times;
         (c)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the
utility for activities, including:
            1.   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
            2.   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other
than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
            4.   Eliminate domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars and the
like;
            5.   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
            6.   Eliminate filling or maintaining public or private swimming
pools; and
            7.   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire drills or any purpose other than firefighting or flushing
necessary to maintain water quality.
         (d)   Limit use of water by commercial and individual customers,
including but not limited to the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic life;
            3.   Limit irrigating golf courses and any portion of its grounds;
            4.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
            5.   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system;
      (4)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system;
      (5)    Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested;
      (6)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts and
emphasize the penalties associated with violating the mandatory restrictions;
and
      (7)   Provide written notification monthly to the State Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center regarding the success of the
voluntary and mandatory restrictions.
(Ord. 06-03-03, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 53.46 EXTREME DROUGHT PHASE.
   (A)   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that an extreme
drought condition is present and is expected to persist and/or upon
determination by the town that an extreme water supply shortage exists based on
the trigger levels, the town will impose mandatory restrictions in the use of
water for all purposes and on the times when certain water usage is allowed.
Specifically, the goal during this phase is to achieve a reduction of 30% in
residential water use, 25% in all other categories of water uses and a
reduction in overall water use of 25%.
   (B)   To accomplish these goals, the town will take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a proclamation to be released to the local media, the town
customers and to the State Department of Natural Resources Drought Information
Center that extreme drought conditions are present;
      (2)   Provide written notification to the State Department of Natural
Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the service area of the water system the mandatory
restrictions to be placed on the use of water supplied by the utility,
including:
         (a)   Limiting residential water use to 45 gallons per person per day
and a maximum of 150 gallons per household or REU per day;
         (b)   Eliminate landscape irrigation by the utility’s customers;
         (c)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the
utility for activities, including:
            1.   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
            2.   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other
than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
            4.   No domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars and the like;
            5.   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
            6.   Eliminate filling or maintaining public or private swimming
pools; and
            7.   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire drills or any purpose other than firefighting or flushing
necessary to maintain water quality.
         (d)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers,
including but not limited to the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support fish and wildlife;
            3.   Limit irrigating golf courses and any portion of their
grounds;
            4.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
            5.   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production, or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system;
      (4)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system;
      (5)   Outline other conservation measures; examples are:
         (a)   Place a moratorium on the issuance of all new water service
connections and contracts for all new water main extensions. As part of the
public information process, provide notice to developers of the moratorium;
         (b)   Encourage all residential water customers to voluntarily reduce
overall monthly water usage to 70% of the customer’s monthly average. If
voluntary reduction of usage is not successful, the town may, at its option,
implement the following excessive use rate schedule for water:
 
Tier I   0 – 6,000 gallons/REU   Regular rate
Tier II  6,001 – 8,000 gallons/RE2 times regular rate
Tier III Over 8,000 gallons/REU    3 times regular rate
 
         (c)   Impose a drought surcharge per 1,000 gallons of water that
increases with higher usage. The general principle behind the drought surcharge
is that the fee is imposed on water use in excess of 6,000 gallons of normal
monthly use. The drought surcharge is a temporary fee imposed during the
current water supply shortage and is not a cost-based rate. The drought
surcharge is temporary and will be terminated at a time as the town determines
the water supply is above the trigger levels; and
         (d)   If the conservation measures of the ordinance or the Plan prove
inadequate to mitigate the effects of the drought conditions or water supply
availability, the town may take additional actions, including but not limited
to:
            1.   Decreasing the gallon/REU limits in the different tiers; and
            2.   Reduction of water system pressure as needed.
      (6)   Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested;
      (7)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts as
conducted under the moderate and severe drought phase and emphasize the
penalties associated with violating the mandatory restrictions; and
      (8)   Provide written notification monthly to the State Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center regarding the success of the
mandatory restrictions.
(Ord. 06-03-03, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 53.47 RATIONING.
   If a drought threatens the protection of public health and safety, the town
is hereby authorized to ration water.
(Ord. 06-03-03, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 53.48 ENFORCEMENT OF RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   If any customer of the town fails to comply with the mandatory water
use restrictions of this subchapter, the customer shall be given a written
notice of the failure to comply, which cites the date of the violation, and
shall be assessed surcharges in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   First violation: a $150 surcharge shall be added to the customer’s
water bill;
      (2)   Second violation: an additional $150 surcharge shall be added to
the customer’s water bill; and
      (3)   Third violation: the customer’s water service shall be terminated
and restored only after payment of a surcharge of $1,000 in addition to all
previously assessed surcharges, and a reconnection fee of $50.
   (B)   Law enforcement agencies and other authorized agencies or designated
employees in the respective jurisdiction which is being supplied water by the
town shall diligently enforce the provisions of the drought response ordinance.
(Ord. 06-03-03, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 53.49 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Customers, who in their belief are unable to comply with the mandatory
water use restrictions of this drought response subchapter, may petition for a
variance from restrictions by filing a petition with the town within ten
working days after the issuance of the proclamation requiring water use
restrictions. All petitions for variance shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the petitioner;
      (2)   Purpose of water usage;
      (3)   Special provision from which the petitioner is requesting relief;
      (4)   Detailed statement as to how the curtailment declaration adversely
affects the petitioner;
      (5)   Description of the relief desired;
      (6)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
      (7)   Economic value of the water use;
      (8)   Damage or harm to the petitioner or others if petitioner complies
with the ordinance;
      (9)   Restrictions with which the petitioner is expected to comply and
the compliance date;
      (10)   Steps the petitioner is taking to meet the restrictions from which
the variance is sought and the expected date of compliance; and
      (11)   Other information as needed.
   (B)   In order for the variance to be granted, the petitioner must
demonstrate clearly that compliance with the ordinance cannot be technically
accomplished during the duration of the water supply shortage without having an
adverse impact upon the best interests of the community. The town is authorized
to grant the request for variance.
   (C)   In addition, the town is authorized to grant temporary variances for
existing water uses otherwise prohibited under the ordinance if it is
determined that failure to grant variances could cause an emergency condition
adversely affecting health, sanitation and fire protection for the public.
      (1)   No variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation
of this subchapter occurring prior to the issuance of the variance.
      (2)   Variances granted by the town shall include a timetable for
compliance and shall expire when the water supply shortage no longer exists,
unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified requirements.
(Ord. 06-03-03, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 53.50 STATUS OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If any portion of this subchapter is held to be unconstitutional for
any reason, the remaining portions of this subchapter shall not be affected
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall prevail and control in the
event of any inconsistency between this subchapter and other rules and
regulations of the town.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to invalidate or be
interpreted in a manner inconsistent with any covenants now in effect and given
as security to holders of bonds secured by revenues of the system.
(Ord. 06-03-03, passed 6-3-2003)
VIOLATIONS
§ 53.65 NON-SERVICE.
   In addition to penalties as set forth in §
53.99, the town reserves the right to sever a water connection or remove a
water meter if it is found that any provision of this chapter has been
violated.
(1995 Code, § 4-2072) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.66 SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE.
   When service has been discontinued for violation of this chapter, all
charges for services to date become immediately due and payable. Service will
not be reinstated until payment in full has been made for all charges including
bills, cost of repairs, service charges, reconnection fees and penalties.
(1995 Code, § 4-2073) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision or section of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in an amount
not to exceed $200 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days.
(1995 Code, § 4-2071) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
CHAPTER 54: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
Sewer Systems Generally
   
54.01   Sanitary sewer system
   
54.02   Substances prohibited
   
54.03   Industrial waste
   
54.04   Permitted substances
   
54.05   Septic tanks prohibited
   
54.06   Repairs to septic tanks
   
54.07   Septic/sludge discharge
   
54.08   Outdoor toilet facilities prohibited
   
54.09   Permit; connection to town system
   
54.10   Sewer lines; materials used
Sewer Rates, Tap Fees and the Like
   
54.25   Tap fees, generally
   
54.26   Same; motels, hotels, apartments
   
54.27   Sewer rates
   
54.28   No free service
Sewer Use
   
54.40   Definitions
   
54.41   Prohibited use of public sewers
   
54.42   Permissive use of public sewers
   
54.43   Operations and control
   
54.44   Sewer charges and surcharges
   
54.45   Determination of character and concentration of wastes
   
54.46   Protection from damage
   
54.47   Enforcement
   
54.48   Sanitary sewer extensions
   
54.49   Fats, oils and grease
   
54.50   Amendments
Violations
   
54.60   Service discontinuance
 
   
54.99   Penalty
SEWER SYSTEMS GENERALLY
§ 54.01 SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   No person shall cause any wastewater to be discharged from any building,
residence or other structure other than into the town sanitary sewer system or
an approved domestic sewage treatment system.
(1995 Code, § 4-2031) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 54.02 SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit in, allow to escape into, or cause or permit to
escape into the sanitary sewer system of the town any material or substance
that would damage or injuriously affect the operation of the system or which
violate DHEC and/or EPA standards. Deposits shall include but not be limited to
petroleum products, grease, chemicals, clothing, rags, remnants, gases, refuse
or any other substance that will affect, injure or retard the biological
treatment system receiving the waste material. By reference, prohibited
substances are also cited in the sewer use ordinance adopted February 16, 1982
with the latest amendments, codified below, and the Industrial Pretreatment
Program update dated January, 2008.
(1995 Code, § 4-2032) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982; Ord. 102114, passed 10-21-2014)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer use, see §§
54.40 through
54.49
§ 54.03 INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   Industrial wastes will not be permitted into the system in excess of the
capacity of the treatment facility to effectively treat the wastes. By
reference, industrial wastes are cited in the sewer use ordinance codified in
§§
54.40 through
54.49.
(1995 Code, § 4-2033) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 54.04 PERMITTED SUBSTANCES.
   By reference permitted substances are cited in the sewer use ordinance
codified in §§
54.40 through
54.49.
(1995 Code, § 4-2034) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 54.05 SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to install a septic tank within the town if a
connection can be made to the sewer system of the town. In the event a
connection to the town system is not available, all plans and specifications
for septic tanks shall be in accordance with and shall meet standards as
established by the Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC).
(1995 Code, § 4-2035) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 54.06 REPAIRS TO SEPTIC TANKS.
   No major repairs shall be permitted to any private sewer system in the town,
provided that the useful life of the private sewer system has been expended,
unless written permission is obtained from the town. The provision of this
section shall not be applicable unless the sewer system of the town is
available to the property served by the private sewer system.
(1995 Code, § 4-2036) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 54.07 SEPTIC/SLUDGE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The town and the county have commercial companies who are in the
business of pumping septic tanks for some of the town’s citizens.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is in order for the town wastewater
treatment plant to be informed as to what is being discharged into the town’s
system and to be in compliance with all regulations.
   (C)   The only point of discharge of septic/sludge will be at the town’s
wastewater treatment plant, located on Highway 321 Bypass. The hours of
operation will be 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. The driver of
the truck will contact the operator on duty, and will be shown where to
discharge septic/sludge after it is tested.
   (D)   Fees established will be charges based on whether the discharge is
septic or sludge. Anyone caught discharging septic/sludge at any other point in
the town’s system will be reported to the Department of Health and
Environmental Control (DHEC) for violation of this section.
   (E)   No commercial company from any other town or county will be authorized
to discharge septic/sludge into the town’s system.
   (F)   The town has the right to refuse any entity from discharging septic/
sludge into the wastewater treatment system.
(1995 Code, § 4-2036.1) (Ord. passed 1-7-1986)
§ 54.08 OUTDOOR TOILET FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   No outdoor toilet facilities shall be permitted within the town. The owner
of any real estate upon which outdoor toilet facilities are located shall be
charged with the responsibility of removing the housing for the outdoor toilet
from the premises and of filling of the pit with dirt fill or other suitable
fill to bring to surrounding ground level. Upon failure of the owner of any
outdoor toilet facilities to remove the housing and fill the pit, after ten
days’ notice by the town in writing by certified mail to the owner, the town
may enter upon the premises, remove the housing and fill the pit. The town
shall then make a reasonable charge to the owner for the labor and materials
used and give notice to the owner by mail. If the owner fails to pay the
charges within 30 days, the town shall cause a lien to be filed against the
property and its owner.
(1995 Code, § 4-2037)
§ 54.09 PERMIT; CONNECTION TO TOWN SYSTEM.
   Any person desiring to connect with the town’s sanitary sewer system shall
apply for a connection as described herein and paying applicable tap fees.
Application for sewer connection shall be made in writing on forms provided by
the town. The application may be denied if not consistent with town
requirements.
(1995 Code, § 4-2038) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 54.10 SEWER LINES; MATERIAL USED.
   All sewer line construction material must be consistent with specifications
as outlined in the gas, water and sewer manual and approved by the Department
Director.
(1995 Code, § 4-2039) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
SEWER RATES, TAP FEES AND THE LIKE
§ 54.25 TAP FEES, GENERALLY.
   The tap fees for connection to the town’s sanitary sewer system to be paid
at the time application for connection is made shall be as fixed from time to
time by the Town Council. Customers desiring sewer service may negotiate
payment of tap fee.
(1995 Code, § 4-2051) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 54.26 SAME; MOTELS, HOTELS, APARTMENTS.
   The tap fees for motels, hotels and apartments shall be as fixed from time
to time by the Town Council.
(1995 Code, § 4-2052)
§ 54.27 SEWER RATES.
   The sewer service charge shall be based on rates applied to the water
consumption. The sewer rates shall be as fixed from time to time by the Town
Council.
(1995 Code, § 4-2053) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
Cross-reference:
   Water rates, see §
53.27
§ 54.28 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No sewer shall be furnished, nor shall any service be rendered free of
charge to any person, firm, corporation, municipal corporation, political
division or subdivision, or public agency, including the town, and any other
municipality served by the system, and each of the foregoing shall be
classified in the same manner as any other customer.
(1995 Code, § 4-2054)
SEWER USE
§ 54.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY.  The Town Manager, or his or her designated
representative.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). A measure of the degree of
pollutional strength of wastes of any nature. BOD, expressed in parts per
million by weight, shall mean the pounds of oxygen required to satisfy the
five-day oxygen demand of a million pounds of domestic sewage or industrial
wastes, or a combination of both when tested in accordance with the procedures
given in the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
and Wastewater, and published by the American Public Health Association.
   COLOR. The optical density of the visible wave length of maximum absorption.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Liquid waste from bathrooms, toilet rooms, kitchens and
home laundries.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from commercial and industrial
processes and operations, as distinct from domestic sewage.
   MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, corporation, institution
or group.
   pH.  The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution and indicates the strength of acidity or
alkalinity of a substance. A pH value of 7.0 is considered neutral. A
stabilized pH will be considered as a pH which does not change beyond the
specified limits when the waste is subjected to aeration. A pH below 7.0 is
acid, pH above 7.0 is alkaline.
   POTW.  Public-owned treatment works.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight expressed in pounds. One million pounds of
water or sewage equals approximately 120,000 gallons.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to the degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties shall have
equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The body of water, stream or watercourse receiving the
discharge waters from the sewage treatment plant or formed by the discharge of
the sewage treatment plant.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage or polluted industrial wastes
and to which storm, surface and ground waters or unpolluted industrial waste
are not intentionally admitted.
   SEPTIC TANK.  A private domestic sewage treatment system consisting of an
underground tank distribution box and drain field designed and constructed in
accordance with any and/or all existing local and state requirements.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with any
ground, surface and storm water as may be naturally present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.  Any arrangement or device and structures for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, conveying, pumping, treating
and disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted wastes.
   SUB-DISTRICT. Any residential subdivision, real estate development,
commercial, industrial or institutional complex.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Winnsboro.
(1995 Code, § 4-3001) (Ord. passed 2-16-1982)
§ 54.41 PROHIBITED USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Water discharges. No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
into any sanitary sewers any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff or sub-surface drainage.
   (B)   Prohibited discharges, water/wastes. Except as hereinafter provided,
no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or waste into any public sanitary sewer:
      (1)   Any clothing, rags, textiles, remnants or wastes, cloth, scraps and
the like, except fibers, scraps and the like which will pass through one-fourth
inch mesh screen or its equivalent in screening ability;
      (2)   Any liquid or vapor in amounts which will inhibit biological
activity at the treatment plant, resulting in interference or causing damage,
but in no case in quantities that the temperature exceeds 150ºF at the town
sewage system or 104ºF at the treatment plant unless SC DHEC, upon request of
the town, approves alternate temperature limits;
      (3)   Any water or waste containing more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fats, oils or grease;
      (4)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quality may cause fire or explosion, or be in any way injurious to persons, the
sewerage system, the sewage treatment works or the operation of the sewage
treatment works;
      (5)   Any liquid wastes in which the suspended solids exceed 400 parts
per million by weight;
      (6)   Any liquid wastes having a BOD of more than 250 parts per million
except as hereinafter provided for;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than 5.0 or
higher than 9.0 or having other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing a poisonous or toxic substance or
any other materials in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, or constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create any hazard in the receiving stream at the sewage treatment plant;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of a character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the materials
in the sewerage system;
      (10)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (11)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (12)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
bones, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, butcher’s offal or any
other solid or viscous substances capable of causing obstruction to the flow in
sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewerage system;
      (13)   Any materials which form excessive amounts of scum that may
interfere with the operation of the sewage treatment works or cause undue
additional labor in connection with its operation;
      (14)   Any waters or wastes containing dyes or other color which cannot
be removed by biological processes and which require special chemical
treatment;
      (15)   Any waters or wastes containing lint in quantities as to be
detrimental to sewer lines, sewage pumps or sewage treatment works; or
      (16)   Any pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutants concentrated which a user knows
or has reason to know will cause interference to the POTW. In no case shall a
slug load have a flow rate or contain concentration or qualities of pollutants
that exceed for any time period longer than 15 minutes more than five times the
average 24-hour concentration, quantities or flow during normal operation.
   (C)   Special arrangements. The approving authority, without limitation by
other sections of this chapter, may authorize any person to discharge
industrial wastes of unusual strength or character into the sewers of the town
under approved conditions of pretreatment. The approving authority may prohibit
entry of particular industrial wastes into the sanitary sewer whenever the
action is necessary to prevent damage to the system or to determine the effects
of the wastes on the sewage system.
   (D)   Pretreatment standards. Upon the promulgation of any federal or state
categorical pretreatment standards or an individual standard, that standard, if
more stringent than limitations imposed under this subchapter shall apply.
(1995 Code, § 4-3002) (Ord. passed 2-16-1982; Ord. passed 6-3-1986; Ord.
030519B, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 54.42 PERMISSIVE USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   The town shall reserve the right to inspect and grant permission for
all connections to the sewerage system and require the payment of a tap fee
before permission to connect can be granted to any person. The tap fee shall be
as specified in the water and sewer ordinance codified in Chapter 53 and the
other subchapters of this chapter.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the approving authority, and
whenever the total volume of sewage to be discharged by any person in any one
day shall exceed 5,000 gallons, the person shall be required, at no expense to
the town, to construct holding or storage tanks in order to equalize the
discharge over a 24-hour period. The tanks shall be so equipped as to
thoroughly mix the sewage so that its quality shall be uniform when discharged
to the public sewers. The control of the volume of discharge of the sewage to
the sewer shall be by a waterworks type rate controller or other approved
device, the operation and setting of which shall be directed by the approving
authority when normal operations of the person will be interrupted for 24
hours, or longer, and when and in what quantities wastes will be available for
discharge.
   (C)   Whenever the waste characteristics of sewage being discharged by any
person exceed those requirements of §
54.41(B), or where necessary in the opinion of the approving authority, the
person discharging sewage shall construct or cause to be constructed at no
expense to the town any preliminary handling or treatment as may be required
to:
      (1)   Reduce the BOD to 250 parts per million by weight, and the
suspended solids to 400 parts per million by weight; or
      (2)   Change the objectionable characteristics or constituents to come
within the maximum limits provided for in §
54.41(B).
   (D)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment or handling facilities shall be submitted for
the approval of the approving authority and no construction of the facilities
shall be commenced until the approval is obtained in writing.
   (E)   Where the preliminary treatment or holding facilities are provided for
any purpose, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation at no cost to the town.
   (F)   Any person who is now discharging any sewage into the town public
sewers may be required to make written application to the approving authority
giving complete information as to the nature and characteristics of the sewage
sample of the waste made by an independent laboratory.
   (G)   Any person having been granted authority by the approving authority to
discharge sewage into the town’s public sewers and who shall change or cause to
be changed the nature or quantity of the sewage, shall before making the
change, receive the approval of the approving authority a complete analysis of
a composite sample of the sewage as determined by an independent laboratory.
   (H)   Any person who should wish to make the connection and discharge sewage
as described above, shall make written application to the approving authority
and may be required to furnish the approving authority a complete analysis of a
composite sample of the sewage as determined by an independent laboratory, in
addition to compliance with all other provisions of this subchapter.
   (I)   Grease, oil and sand separators or traps shall be provided when in the
opinion of the approving authority they are necessary for the proper handling
and control of liquid wastes containing grease, oil or sand in excessive
amounts. The separators shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units, but may be required for certain industrial or commercial
establishments, public eating places, hospitals, hotels, schools or other
institutions. The separators shall be readily accessible for inspection by the
approving authority. They shall be functional (maintained and cleaned) by the
sewer user.
   (J)   Any person discharging industrial wastes into the public sewers may be
required to construct and maintain a suitable control or inspection manhole
either downstream from any pretreatment, storage or other approved works, or if
pre-treatment is not required, at the point where the sewage enters the public
sewers. The manhole shall be located so as to be readily accessible and shall
be constructed in a manner as may be approved by the approving authority so as
to facilitate the inspection or measuring as may be necessary for proper
sampling and/or control of the waste discharged.
   (K)   All industrial users proposing to connect or discharge to the sewerage
system shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or
contributing to the system.
   (L)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this subchapter and all other applicable regulations, user
charges and fees established by the town. Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge and
sampling facilities;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedule;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the town, and affording town access
thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the town or any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges; and
      (11)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the town to ensure
compliance with this subchapter or state and federal pretreatment requirements.
   (M)   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific person for a
specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation without the approval of the town. Any succeeding owner or
user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
(1995 Code, § 4-3003) (Ord. passed 2-16-1982; Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 54.43 OPERATIONS AND CONTROL.
   (A)   The approving authority and duly authorized representatives of the
town shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at all reasonable times
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The town shall notify, if
available, the person or a representative of the person prior to entering the
premises.
   (B)   In the event of imminent danger to the public health and safety, the
approving authority and duly authorized representatives shall be permitted to
take any emergency action as may be deemed necessary in the operation of the
sewerage system, including but not limited to the right to close down any sewer
or portion of the sewerage system for the purpose of making connections,
alterations or repairs. During that event the approving authority will make
every effort to minimize inconvenience and return the service to full operation
as quickly as possible.
   (C)   All tests and analyses of the characteristics of sewage to which
reference is made in this chapter shall be made in accordance with the
procedures given in the latest edition of Standard Methods of Examination of
Water and Wastewater, as revised, published by the American Public Health
Association. The tests and analyses shall be determined at the control manhole
provided for in §
54.42(J), or at the point of discharge of any sewage at the site of their
origin on the premises of any person discharging the sewage into the sewers.
   (D)   The volume of flow used in computing waste user charges and surcharges
shall be based upon metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the Town Water Department or other water authority.
Customers may install sewer meters at their own expense to measure sewage. In
the event that a person discharging wastes into the sanitary sewer system
produces evidence satisfactory to the approving authority that greater than 10%
of his or her water used does not reach the town sanitary sewer, the user may
apply to the approving authority for a reduced percentage of total water
consumption to be used in computing sewer charges.
   (E)   Where the person discharging wastewater into the sanitary sewers of
the town procures any part or all of his or her water supply from sources other
than one recognized and accepted by the approving authority, all or part of
which is discharged into the sanitary sewer, the person discharging the waste
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the approving authority for the purpose of determining the proper
volume of flow to be charged. The approving authority has a right to read the
private meters.
   (F)   All sewer taps shall conform to the requirements of the approving
authority in location, size, type, materials and method used and shall be
accomplished only by a licensed plumber authorized by the approving authority.
It shall become the responsibility of each person requesting connection to the
public sewer to notify the approving authority and arrange for final inspection
of the connection before placing in use.
   (G)   Any person using the public sewer shall be responsible for any
stoppage or damage caused by abuse of the sewerage system through the sewer
connection of that person and shall be held accountable for all expenses
incurred by the town or other property owners as a result of the abuse.
   (H)   All sewage disposal within the area of the town shall be regulated by
the approving authority, and disposal shall be by public sewers and sewerage
system, except that where no public sewer exists within 300 radial feet of a
building or where connection is impractical for technical reasons, the person
owning that property may apply for a permit to construct and operate an
approved septic tank system or similar system approved by the approving
authority, provided that the quantity of sewage to be so disposed of does not
exceed 1,000 gallons per day as determined in division (D) of this section, and
further provided that the septic tank system is properly maintained so as to
eliminate any hazard to the public health or cause a public nuisance. Once
septic tanks require pumping out, they will be abandoned, pumped and filled
with sand. The sewage from this building will be tapped to the available sewer
line.
   (I)   Any person desiring connection to be made with the sewerage system
shall make application on the appropriate form to the approving authority
stating the name of the owner of the property, the location of the lot, and
kind of connection desired. Every application shall be signed by the person
making the application and shall be accompanied by the appropriate connection
fee. Fees shall be those as periodically adopted by the Town Council.
   (J)   Upon ten days’ written notice, the approving authority reserves the
right to prevent or discontinue sewer connection by any person until a time as
the sections of this chapter have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the
approving authority. When deemed necessary by the approving authority to
protect the sewerage system or the public, the approving authority may
discontinue or prevent sewer connection without notice to the person.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person to reconnect a sewer when the same
has been cut off for non-compliance with sections of this chapter, or any other
reason, until specifically approved in writing by the approving authority. This
approval shall be contingent upon satisfaction of all sections of this chapter,
including but not limited to payment of all penalties, charges, claims,
damages, judgments and costs incident thereto.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or undertake to make or
cause to be made any connection to the sewerage system without first having
made application, paid fee and received approval.
   (M)   In no event shall any person be allowed to discharge or cause to be
discharged any domestic sewage or industrial waste to the ground surface,
stream, watercourse, ditch, lake, other body or surface water, storm sewers or
storm drains.
   (N)   Any sewerage discharge within the town located within 300 feet of any
public sewer may be considered by the approving authority as a user of the
public sewer, and is subject to all provisions of this chapter.
   (O)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the town that the release of the information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user. When requested by the person furnishing a report, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public but shall be made
available upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related to
this subchapter, the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit, state disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment program; provided,
however, that these portions of a report shall be available for use by the
state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report.
   (P)   The town shall annually publish in the largest daily newspaper a list
of person(s) which were in significant noncompliance with pretreatment
requirements during the 12 previous months. The notification shall also
summarize enforcement actions taken against the person(s) during the same 12
months.
(1995 Code, § 4-3004) (Ord. passed 2-16-1982; Ord. passed 6-3-1986) Penalty,
see §
54.99
§ 54.44 SEWER CHARGES AND SURCHARGES.
   (A)   The town shall adopt at least annually an adequate schedule of sewer
charges and surcharges to defray the cost of operating and maintaining the
sanitary sewerage system of the town. The costs to be used as a basis of
determining charges shall include but are not necessarily limited to direct
operation and maintenance, administration, collection and billing of charges,
bond redemption, studies and reports, professional fees, repairs, capital
improvements and depreciation. The charges adopted shall be such that each user
pays his or her proportionate share of all cost herein noted.
   (B)   The sewer charges and surcharges shall be published in a form for
public distribution and notice, shall become a part of this chapter upon
adoption and public notification, and shall be based on the cost of treatment
per 1,000 gallons of sewage.
   (C)   The approving authority shall levy monthly sewer user charges and the
charges shall be due and payable immediately. The user charges shall be based
on actual water consumption, as obtained from water meter readings as provided
under §
54.43(D) and (E), except where sewer system meters are installed. Failure to
pay this bill within 15 days shall cause the bill to become delinquent. After
five days of delinquency, the approving authority may discontinue service as
provided for in §
54.43.
   (D)   The approving authority may, at its discretion, allow industrial waste
which exceeds the limitation of §
54.41(B)(6) to be discharged into the sanitary sewerage system, provided that
the person discharging the waste shall agree to the payment of a surcharge to
offset any cost to treat the BOD or suspended solids in excess of allowable
limits. This surcharge shall be imposed in addition to any other charges made
for sewer service.
   (E)   The surcharge covering the cost of treatment of the industrial wastes
shall be determined in the following manner.
      (1)   The approving authority shall fix the rate to be charged during the
new fiscal year, at the beginning of the fiscal year, for the excess BOD or
suspended solids, from actual costs per 1,000 pounds removed from the combined
domestic and industrial wastes as experienced at the sewage treatment plant(s)
of the town during the preceding fiscal year.
      (2)   The rate shall be applied to the amount of excessive BOD and
suspended solids as determined by averaging at least three waste discharge
samples taken in accordance with provisions of §
54.43(C), and §
54.45(A) and (B).
   (F)   Tap fees, cutting of pavement if required, and other expenses
concerning sewer connections shall be as periodically established by the Town
Council.
(1995 Code, § 4-3005) (Ord. passed 2-16-1982)
§ 54.45 DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER AND CONCENTRATION OF WASTES.
   (A)   The wastewater of each industrial discharger into the town’s sewerage
system shall be subject to periodic inspection for a determination of character
and concentration not less than semi-annually or more often as may be deemed
necessary by the approving authority. The inspection and tests may also be made
immediately after any approved process change which might affect the quantity
or quality of the waste discharged.
   (B)   Samples shall be collected in a manner as to be representative of the
actual quality of the waste. Laboratory methods used in the examination of the
waste shall be those set forth in Standard Methods as hereinbefore described, a
copy of which is on file at the office of the Superintendent of Public
Utilities, for inspection by any interested parties.
   (C)   The determination of the flow, character and concentration of
industrial wastes as provided herein shall be used as a basis for charges and
surcharges.
(1995 Code, § 4-3006) (Ord. passed 2-16-1982)
§ 54.46 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any equipment or materials belonging to
the town. This protection shall also apply to any part of the system, whether
town-owned or not, if it is such as to adversely affect the proper operation
and maintenance of the town system. Any person violating this provision shall
be subject to penalties outlined in §
54.99(B) as well as prosecution if deemed appropriate.
(1995 Code, § 4-3007) (Ord. passed 2-16-1982) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.47 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement. The town may suspend the wastewater discharge permit when
the suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the town, in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to the
environment, or causes the town to violate any condition or its NPDES permit.
Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or
the wastewater discharge permits shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event of a failure of any person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the town shall take any steps as deemed necessary,
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the sewerage system or endangerment to any individuals. The town
shall reinstate the wastewater discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge. A
detailed written statement submitted by the person describing the causes of the
harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the town within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
   (B)   Revocation of permit.  Any person who violates the following
conditions of this subchapter, or applicable state and federal regulations, is
subject to having his or her permit revoked:
      (1)   Failure to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or wastewater
constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Failure of reasonable access to the premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)    Violation of any conditions of the permit.
   (C)   Legal action. If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes into
the town’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the
town, the Town Attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief in the Circuit Court of this county.
   (D)   Penalties. 
      (1)   In addition to the penalties provided in §
54.99, the town may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, court
reporters’ fees and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law
against the person found to have violated this subchapter or the orders, rules,
regulations and permits issued hereunder.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation
or certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document
filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this subchapter, or wastewater
discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this subchapter
shall, upon conviction, be subject to the provisions of §
54.99.
(1995 Code, § 4-3008) (Ord. passed 2-16-1982; Ord. passed 6-3-1986) Penalty,
see §
54.99
§ 54.48 SANITARY SEWER EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Any entity proposing to build local or lateral sanitary sewers or
extensions to connect directly or indirectly into the town’s sanitary sewerage
system shall conform its plan and specifications to the requirements of the
approving authority. The plans and specifications shall be prepared by a
registered engineer who is authorized by the laws of this state and approved or
approvable by any and all local, county and state authorities having
jurisdiction.
   (B)   The following administrative procedures shall be followed:
      (1)   Submit preliminary construction plans to the approving authority in
sufficient detail to indicate location, system layout, line sizes, service
connections, flows, character of sewage, relationship with and connection to
the town’s system, and total development plans;
      (2)   Receive preliminary acceptance from the approving authority and
other jurisdictional agencies;
      (3)   Prepare construction drawings and documents for approving authority
acceptance;
      (4)   Secure all other necessary agency approvals of construction
drawings and contract documents;
      (5)   Upon receipt of required approvals, proceed with construction,
notifying the approving authority of construction schedules;
      (6)   Provide the approving authority with permission for on-site
inspection during construction; and
      (7)   Furnish to the approving authority a certificate of completion,
instrument of conveyance and warranty together with any other legal documents
as may be required for annexation, reimbursement and similar special
provisions.
   (C)   Construction of the proposed sewerage system shall be accomplished by
a registered contractor licensed under the laws of this state who shall have
paid all business licenses required by the town.
   (D)   Public bids must be received and tabulated for any portion of the
proposed system which qualifies for reimbursement from the town. These
tabulated bids must be submitted to and approved by the approving authority
before award of construction contracts.
   (E)   Upon completion of construction, the engineer employed by the
subdistrict shall inspect and furnish to the approving authority, at no cost to
the town, his or her certificate of completion indicating that the subject
sewerage system has been constructed in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications, and shall provide four copies of as-constructed drawings.
   (F)   The owner or his or her authorized agent shall submit a warranty which
is a legal instrument in which the owner warrants the materials, equipment and
construction of the system for 12 months. The owner shall further warrant to
the approving authority that all fees have been paid by him or her such that
there is no outstanding indebtedness remaining and holding the town harmless in
each instance.
   (G)   All known sewer taps shall be made during construction and the
location of all taps shall be recorded on the as-constructed drawings.
   (H)   All sewerage system extensions must be compatible with present and
future plans and needs of the town.
   (I)   When all other requirements of this chapter have been met and approved
the owner shall prepare and submit to the approving authority an instrument of
conveyance, conveying the constructed system to the town, at no cost to the
town, and the system shall thereafter be owned, operated and maintained by the
town as provided for in this chapter. The instrument of conveyance shall also
include permanent easements and rights-of-way fully described and duly recorded
at the appropriate authority.
(1995 Code, § 4-3009) (Ord. passed 2-16-1982)
§ 54.49 FATS, OILS AND GREASE.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to aid in the prevention of sanitary
sewer blockages and obstructions caused by the introduction, discharge and
contribution of fats, oils, greases, grease complexes, scum, sludge and other
organic polar compounds into the town’s wastewater collection system or
publicly-owned treatment works by commercial, industrial, institutional and all
other non-residential activities.
   (B)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT and INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any user that has
the potential to use, contribute to or otherwise impact the town’s wastewater
collection system or POTW. The establishments include, but are not limited to,
maintenance facilities, repair facilities and equipment cleaning facilities.
      COOKING ESTABLISHMENT. Any person primarily engaged in the activities of
cooking, preparing, serving or otherwise making available for human consumption
any form of foodstuff, and which uses one or more of the following cooking or
preparation methods in connection with such activities: cooking or preparation
by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing, rotisserie
cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting,
poaching or any type of cooking or preparation that produces a hot non-potable
products in or on a receptacle that requires washing, rinsing or other form of
cleaning. The establishments include, but are not limited to, restaurants,
cafeterias, extended care facilities, school cafeterias (public and private),
churches and day-care facilities where meals for more than six children are
prepared, served or otherwise made available for human consumption and bio-fuel
companies.
      EMULSIFIER. Any chemical additive that promotes the suspension of fats,
oils and grease in water.
      GREASE. All greases, grease complexes, fats, oils, scum, sludges and all
other organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or plant sources that
contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. Such substances are
detectable and measurable using analytical procedures established in 40 C.F.R.
136.
      GREASE TRAP or GREASE INTERCEPTOR. A device for separating and retaining
waterborne greases before the wastewater which contains such grease exits, the
grease trap or interceptor into the town’s wastewater collection system or
POTW. The grease trap or interceptor also collects settable solids generated by
or incidental to commercial, industrial and food preparation activities.
      NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENT. Any person primarily engaged in the rendering
or preparation of pre-cooked foodstuffs that do not require or involve any form
of cooking. The establishments include, but are not limited to, establishments
that are primarily engaged in the rending preparation of cold dairy and frozen
foodstuffs. These businesses are encouraged to explore methods of exemption and
alternate compliance status.
      TOWN. The town and its utility service area.
      USER. Any person primarily engaged in any commercial, industrial,
institutional or other non-residential activity who introduces, contributes or
discharges (or causes or permits the introduction, contribution or discharge
of) wastewater into the town’s wastewater collection system or POTW, including
but not limited to any person who introduces, contributes or discharges
wastewater into the wastewater collection system or POTW through any mobile
source.
      WASTEWATER. Any substance introduced, contributed to or discharges into
the town’s wastewater collection system or publicly-owned treatment works
(POTW).
   (C)   Grease trap and interceptor installation, maintenance, record-keeping
and removal.
      (1)   No later than one year after adoption of this section, all users
shall install grease traps or interceptors designed to limit the introduction,
contribution and discharge of greases into the town’s wastewater collection
system of POTW. Grease traps and interceptors with appropriate sampling or
inspection points shall be installed at the user’s expense whenever any user
operates a commercial, industrial or institutional cooking establishment.
Grease traps and interceptors must have a minimum capacity of 1,000 gallons or
more as required to affect a grease concentration maximum of 100 mg/l.
      (2)   Alternate methods of compliance may be approved by the town if the
user demonstrates that compliance with this section is impossible or
impractical at the time of adoption of this section as a result of limited
space. However, any proposed alternative method of compliance will be required
to meet the performance criteria specified in division (C)(1) and the user must
adequately demonstrate to the satisfaction of the town that the proposed
alternative method will satisfy those performance criteria. In addition, any
alternative method must be cleaned at a more frequent interval than is required
of grease traps and interceptors under division (C)(5). Under-the-counter types
of grease traps and interceptors shall be cleaned at least daily. Prior to
approval of any proposed alternative method of compliance, documentation of the
proposed method’s actual performance criteria must be submitted to the
Wastewater Director or the town’s designated enforcement official for review
and approval.
      (3)   Grease traps and interceptors may also be required in other
facilities, as deems necessary by the Wastewater Director or the town’s
designated enforcement official.
      (4)   Upon the prior written approval of the Wastewater Director, non-
cooking establishments may be exempted from the requirements of this section
after an inspection of the subject premises and submission of adequate
supporting documentation, as deemed necessary in the discretion of the
Wastewater Director. At a minimum, such supporting documentation shall include:
blueprints of the subject premises, a full and detailed description of the
operations and activities at the subject premises, and a full and detailed list
of all potential sources of grease at the subject premises.
      (5)   Users shall empty and service grease traps and interceptors to
comply with the performance criteria in division (C)(1) as often as necessary,
but in any event no longer than every 60 days. The town may require a specific
schedule if deemed necessary the Wastewater Director or designee. Under-the-
counter types of grease traps and interceptors shall be cleaned at least daily
and shall comply with the performance criteria in this division. There shall be
no reintroduction of wastewater back into the grease trap or interceptor unless
and until the wastewater has been proven to contain 100 mg/l or less of grease.
Under no circumstances shall the sludge or scum layer be reintroduced or
discharged into the town’s wastewater collection system or POTW.
      (6)   Users shall supply an adequate sampling point downstream of the
grease trap or interceptor, prior to mixing with other sanitary flows, and an
accessible entry into each chamber of the grease trap or interceptor. The
minimum requirement for the sampling point shall be a four-inch vertical clean-
out. The town shall have the right to inspect at any time and without prior
notice.
      (7)   Users shall retain detailed records on-site for a minimum of three
years reflecting all maintenance carried out pursuant to this section. At a
minimum, such records shall contain the following information: date of service,
name of the employee involved and a receipt reflecting all services rendered by
the waste hauler providing the service.
      (8)   Users are required to keep the grease trap or interceptor free of
inorganic solids such as grit, towels, gloves, cigarettes, eating utensils and
the like, which could clog or settle in the trap or interceptor, thereby
reducing the effective volume or capacity of trap or interceptor.
      (9)   Emulsifiers will not be discharged into the town’s wastewater
collection system. Emulsifiers solidify downstream and coat the lines
increasing the likelihood for blockages and overflows.
      (10)   Users are required to ensure that all waste material removed from
grease traps and interceptors is disposed of in a manner that complies with all
federal, state and local statutes, rules, regulations, policies and ordinances.
      (11)   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following the
adoption of this section, no enforcement actions will be taken under this
section for failure to achieve the performance criteria specified in division
(C). If, during such period, an obstruction of any of the town’s sanitary sewer
main(s) occurs and causes a sewer overflow, spill, leak or other event with any
environmental impact, and such overflow, spill, leak or other event may be
attributed in part or in whole to a particular user, then the town will seek
enforcement action under this subchapter. For purposed of this section, an
overflow, spill, leak or other event shall be deemed to have an environmental
impact when such overflow or other event involves an amount of wastewater equal
to or in excess of 1,000 gallons, or any amount of wastewater reaches any body
of surface water.
   (D)   Enforcement. The town shall enforce this section to the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 110612B, passed 11-5-2012)
§ 54.50 AMENDMENTS.
   The town, through its duly qualified officers, reserves the right to amend
this subchapter in part or in whole whenever it may deem necessary, but that
right will be exercised only after due notice by publication one time in the
daily press at least ten days before any final action.
(1995 Code, § 4-3010) (Ord. passed 2-16-1982)
VIOLATIONS
§ 54.60 SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE.
   When service has been discontinued for violation of this chapter, all
charges for services to date become immediately due and payable. Service will
not be reinstated until payment in full has been made for all charges including
bills, cost of repairs, service charges, reconnection fees and penalties.
(1995 Code, § 4-2073) (Ord. passed 3-2-1982)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision or section of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in an amount
not to exceed $200 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days.
(1995 Code, § 4-2071)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who is found to have violated an order of the Town
Council or who willfully or negligently fails to comply with any provisions of
§§
54.40 through
54.50, and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, shall
be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense. Each day on
which a violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of violations of the provisions of §
54.47(D) shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(1995 Code, § 4-3008)
(Ord. passed 2-16-1982; Ord. passed 3-2-1982; Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING
      
72.   PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of state law
   
70.02   Only licensed operators may drive vehicles
   
70.03   Obedience to traffic signals
   
70.04   Speed limits
   
70.05   Vehicles not be operated unless taxes are paid
   
70.06   Bicycles, roller skates and skateboards
   
70.07   Railroads
   
70.08   U-turns and left-hand turns
   
70.09   Careless operation unlawful
   
70.10   Through trucks prohibited; alternate routes
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   There is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof as if set out in
full those provisions of state law known as the Uniform Traffic Act as
contained in S.C. Code, Title 46, Chapter 7.
(1995 Code, § 8-1001)
Editor’s note:
   The prior codification contained the following Editorial Note: The cited
state law may be incorporated by reference in an ordinance by municipalities,
Op. Atty Gen., No. 2460, p. 125 (1967-68). Municipalities may further regulate
traffic, provided the additional regulations do not conflict with state law,
S.C. Code §§ 56-5-30 and 56-5-710.
§ 70.02 ONLY LICENSED OPERATORS MAY DRIVE VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be operated within the town limits other than by a properly
licensed driver.
(1995 Code, § 8-1002)
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   Drivers of all vehicles shall abide by signals of traffic officers and all
automatic and stationary traffic signs and signals within the town limits.
(1995 Code, § 8-1003)
§ 70.04 SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limits within the town shall be as posted.
(1995 Code, § 8-1004)
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see also
Chapter 73, Schedule III
§ 70.05 VEHICLES NOT TO BE OPERATED UNLESS TAXES ARE PAID.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any resident of the town, who owes delinquent
personal property taxes to the town upon any motor vehicle, to own or operate
the motor vehicle within the town limits or upon the public streets and ways of
the town while the personal property taxes are due and owing to the town.
   (B)   Personal property taxes assessed against any motor vehicle owned by a
resident of the town shall be delinquent when the taxes are past due and unpaid
and have gone into execution as provided for by this code.
(1995 Code, § 8-1005) (Ord. passed 9-5-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND SKATEBOARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to ride a bicycle,
roller skates, skateboards or operate a reasonable facsimile thereof on the
sidewalks at any time in the business district of the town. The BUSINESS
DISTRICT is defined as being that area within the boundaries of Vanderhorst
Street on the west, Zion Street on the east, College Street on the north and
Moultrie Street on the south.
   (B)   No person shall ride a bicycle, roller skates, skateboard or operate a
device of a reasonable facsimile upon any of the streets of the town after
dark; provided, however, that a bicycle may be operated on streets within the
town limits provided that the same is properly equipped with a white light on
the front of the same and a red light or a red reflector upon the rear thereof.
(1995 Code, § 8-1006) (Ord. passed 9-5-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07 RAILROADS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any railway company to permit its engines or
the cars of any train to block a public street or road crossing in the town for
a longer period than five minutes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or any railroad company operating
any train through the town to operate the train or engine or part thereof at
speed greater than 20 mph.
(1995 Code, § 8-1007) (Ord. passed 5-7-1946; Ord. passed 1-26-1948) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 70.08 U-TURNS AND LEFT-HAND TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons operating a motor vehicle to
make a U-turn on the streets designated in
Chapter 73, Schedule I.
(1995 Code, § 8-1008) (Ord. passed 9-6-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 CARELESS OPERATION UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle within the
limits of the town without care and caution and full regard for safety of
persons or property. Any person failing to do so shall be guilty of careless
driving or riding. The operation of any vehicle when the same or any of its
parts or appliances is not in proper or safe condition shall be prima facie
evidence of careless driving or riding.
   (B)   Careless operation is unlawful and may be a lesser included offense of
reckless driving. Violations of this section shall be punished by fine or
imprisonment or both, in the discretion of the court, not to exceed the
statutory limits of authority granted to the Municipal Court of the town.
(Ord. 051600A, passed 5-16-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.10 THROUGH TRUCKS PROHIBITED; ALTERNATE ROUTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle, trailer or
semi-trailer, the total length of which exceeds 25 feet, except emergency
vehicles and trucks delivering goods and merchandise and school buses, without
a permit from the Director Public Safety on any street which has been
designated by resolution of Town Council and posted pursuant to S.C. Code Ann.
§ 56-5-720 with signs prohibiting trucks.
(Ord. 02-04-03A, passed 2-4-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Alternative routes, see
Chapter 73, Schedule II
CHAPTER 71: PARKING
Section
   
71.01   Regulation of parking areas
   
71.02   Vehicles improperly parked may be removed
   
71.03   Vehicles not to be parked on streets or sidewalks for routine repairs
   
71.04   Parking of vehicles containing dangerous substances
   
71.05   [Reserved]
   
71.06   [Reserved]
   
71.07   Two-hour parking in business district
   
71.08   Parking of heavy vehicles
§ 71.01 REGULATION OF PARKING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in any of the driveways leading
from the public streets of the town to and into the parking area in a manner as
to obstruct the flow of vehicular traffic into and from the parking area, and
it shall also be unlawful to park any vehicle in the parking area in a manner
as to prohibit the free movement of any other parked vehicle or to obstruct the
use of the remaining part of the parking area.
(1995 Code, § 8-2002(b)) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits of this area, see
Chapter 73, Schedule III
§ 71.02 VEHICLES IMPROPERLY PARKED MAY BE REMOVED.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle improperly parked or left standing upon the streets
or public ways of the town in a manner as to constitute a hazard to pedestrian
or motor vehicular traffic may be moved by any police officer and delivered to
the Director of Public Safety for keeping or, in the event the vehicle may be
removed by towing to a safe place within the town, as directed by the Public
Safety Director. The Public Safety Director is hereby designated as the
custodian of removed vehicles until they are claimed by the owners or persons
entitled thereto. All cost of towing or removal shall be paid by the owner or
driver of the motor vehicle before return of the vehicle may be made by the
Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle or other article of personal property parked or left
standing upon the streets of the town for 48 hours may be removed therefrom by
any police officer, and for this purpose the police officer may solicit and use
the aid and assistance of a towing truck or towing apparatus in the event he or
she cannot move the property. The vehicle or property when removed from the
public streets shall be delivered into the custody of the Public Safety
Director who shall immediately advise the owner, driver or person entitled
thereof of the removal and the amount of actual costs incurred by the town in
the removal. The owner or person rightfully entitled to the vehicle or personal
property may obtain it from the Public Safety Director by paying the cost of
the removal.
(1995 Code, § 8-2003)
§ 71.03 VEHICLES NOT TO BE PARKED ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS FOR ROUTINE REPAIRS.
   No person shall perform mechanical work or repair work, unless of an
emergency nature, upon any truck or vehicle parked or placed upon any street or
sidewalk in the town limits.
(1995 Code, § 8-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 PARKING OF VEHICLES CONTAINING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park and
leave standing upon the public streets and public ways of the town any truck or
motor vehicle, or any motor vehicle tank trailer, used for the transportation
of gasoline, fuel oil, liquefied petroleum gas or other flammable or explosive
liquids at any time between 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following day, and
between 6:00 p.m. of the day preceding any Sunday or legal holiday and 8:00
a.m. of the day following a Sunday or legal holiday; provided, however, the
provisions of this section shall not apply to any motor vehicle or tank truck
while actually discharging or delivering therefrom its cargo or the product
carried thereon and while the vehicle is under the actual control of its driver
or operator.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park or
leave standing at any time, upon the public streets or public ways of the town,
any motor vehicle transporting thereon any explosive chemicals, high explosives
or radioactive products or materials, unless the motor vehicle is under the
actual control of its driver or operator and the driver or operator is present
at all times while the motor vehicle is left standing or parked upon the
streets of the town.
   (C)   Trucks or motor vehicles parked or left standing upon the public
streets or public ways of the town in violation of the provisions of this
section may be moved under the order and direction of the Public Safety
Department to a safe parking or storage location.
(1995 Code, § 8-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 [RESERVED]
§ 71.06 [RESERVED]
§ 71.07 TWO-HOUR PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Parking spaces designated as two-hour parking spaces are set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule I.
   (B)   The town shall have lines or markings painted or placed upon the curb
and on the street for the purpose of designating the parking space and the
vehicle operator shall keep the vehicle within the lines or markings so
established; provided, however, in the event that the vehicle is of a type
which, because of the length or size, would project into the traveled portion
of the street when so parked in accordance with the above provisions, the
operator may park the vehicle parallel to the curb, or within the front thereof
between designated spaces for a period not to exceed ten minutes. Parking of
vehicles in any other manner, or for a longer period, shall constitute a
violation of this section and the operator shall be punished as hereinafter set
forth.
   (C)   Any person parking a vehicle in any space designated above shall not
leave the vehicle in the space for more than two hours (120 minutes). Failure
to move the vehicle totally from that space and to another location shall
constitute a violation of this section and shall subject the person and/or
registered owner of the vehicle to the punishments and/or penalties hereinafter
set forth.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of police officers, acting in accordance with
instruments issued by the Public Safety Director, to report:
      (1)   The state license number of the vehicle;
      (2)   The time during which the vehicle is parked in violation of any
provision of this section; and
      (3)   Any other facts, including make of vehicle, a knowledge of which is
necessary to a thorough understanding of the circumstances attending the
violation.
   (E)   Each police officer shall attach to any vehicle found violating the
provisions of this section a notice to the owner or operator showing the
violation and penalty and instructing the owner or operator to report to the
office of the Public Safety Director in regard to the violation. Each owner or
operator may, within 72 hours of the time when the notice was attached to the
vehicle, pay to the Clerk to Municipal Court. The failure of the owner or
operator to make the payment within 72 hours shall render the owner or operator
subject to a penalty of $10. The failure of the owner or operator to make the
payment of $10 within a 30-day period of the issuance of the notice shall
render the owner or operator subject to a penalty of $25 or to the penalties
hereinafter provided for violation of this section.
   (F)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this section, or any
person who shall assist in the violation, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (G)   Any person who shall hinder, obstruct or remove any marks made by a
police officer in the performance of his or her duties in enforcing this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction be punished
as provided in §
10.99.
   (H)   Rolling of tires, that is, the deliberate movement of the vehicle only
far enough to obliterate any markings placed upon the tire by the police for
the purpose of determining time that a vehicle is parked, shall be a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (I)   Parking regulations as herein set forth shall be in effect from the
hours of 9:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. each Monday through Saturday. Sundays and
holidays upon which the places of business of the town are closed are excluded
from the operation of the provisions thereof.
(1995 Code, § 8-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 PARKING OF HEAVY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the zoning ordinance or town
code, it shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended, or to allow any
tractor-trailer unit (regardless of weight) or any truck or other such vehicle
(except for a vehicle commonly designated as a pickup truck) with over a two-
ton load capacity or which weighs more than 10,000 pounds (tare or empty
weight) to be parked or left unattended, on or within any portion of a
residential zoning district, including any lot, yard, driveway, street or
public right-of-way. TRACTOR-TRAILER UNIT means the entire unit or the tractor
alone or the trailer alone.
   (B)   This shall not apply to:
      (1)   Service vehicles while actively engaged in temporary loading or
unloading or service; or
      (2)   Campers or recreational vehicles in compliance with the provisions
of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 12-6-05, passed 12-6-2005)
CHAPTER 72: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Permit required
   
72.03   Application
   
72.04   Standards of issuance
   
72.05   Parade route
   
72.06   Notice of rejection
   
72.07   Alternative permit
   
72.08   Appeal procedure
   
72.09   Contents of permit
   
72.10   Possession of permit
   
72.11   Public conduct during parades
   
72.12   Revocation of permit
   
72.13   Violations
   
72.14   Post-parade cleanup
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or rallies or demonstrations, or any similar display in or upon
any street, sidewalk, public place, park or other outdoor places owned or under
control of the town.
   PARADE PERMIT.  A permit as required by this chapter.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
group or organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC SAFETY DIRECTOR. The Public Safety Director of this town.
   TOWN. The Town of Winnsboro, South Carolina.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of this town.
(1995 Code, § 3-1031) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 72.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, participate in, aid, form,
or start any parade or procession on any of the streets or in any other public
places within the corporate limits of the town without first having secured a
special permit from the Town Manager to do so; provided, however, that funeral
processions and governmental agencies, acting within the scope of their
official functions, are exempted from this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 3-1032) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 APPLICATION.
   A person seeking the issuance of a parade permit shall file an application
with the Public Safety Director on forms provided by the Public Safety
Director.
   (A)   Filing period.  An application for a parade permit shall be filed with
the Town Manager not less than seven days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade and not less than 30 days before the date on
which it is proposed to conduct the parade, if the number of actual or
anticipated participants exceeds 200.
   (B)   Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade and the signature of the person or his or her authorized
agent;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson;
      (4)   The date the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, to include the starting point and the
point of termination;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who and animals and vehicles
which will constitute the parade, the type of animals and description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   The location by either street and block location or other
reasonable physical description of any and all assembly areas for the parade
together with the time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble;
      (9)   The purpose of the parade, although there will be no refusal of a
permit based on purpose alone, unless the purpose comes into conflict with the
condition and requirements hereinafter set forth under standards of issuance;
and
      (10)   Any additional information which the Public Safety Director or
Town Manager shall find it reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to
whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   Late applications. Where good cause is shown therefor, the Public
Safety Director of the Town Manager shall have the authority to consider any
application hereunder which is filed in less than the required periods
applicable for the size of parade proposed.
   (D)   Application fee. A fee to cover the expenses incident to filing,
processing and distribution shall be paid by the person applying for the permit
at the time of the filing of the application. Application fee is not refundable
regardless of the application’s approval or disapproval. The town has the
option of waiving permit application fees.
(1995 Code, § 3-1033) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 72.04 STANDARDS OF ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Public Safety Director or the Town Manager shall issue a permit as
provided for hereunder when, from a consideration of the application and from
other information, reasonable and reliable in nature and in content as may
otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic and will proceed along the prescribed
route of march only once;
      (2)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection, or ambulance service;
      (3)   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property or to provoke disorderly conduct;
      (4)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delay en route; and
      (5)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising
any product, goods or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit; provided, however, the prohibition against advertising any product,
goods or event shall not apply to signs identifying organizations or sponsors
furnishing or sponsoring floats or transportation for the parade.
   (B)   Additionally, if the Public Safety Director or the Town Manager finds
that the parade permit requested is both subsequent and similar in purpose and/
or persons to parades previously requested and held during the same calendar
year and are so unreasonably repetitious as to constitute an inconvenience to
the public in its use of the parade routes and their contiguous places of
business and of public use, access and enjoyment, he or she may deny the
application.
(1995 Code, § 3-1034) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 72.05 PARADE ROUTE.
   Parade routes are to be restricted to Congress Street in the town unless
otherwise designated and approved. The parade procession may travel either
Evans or streets south of Moultrie Street for staging areas depending on the
direction of travel of the parade.
(1995 Code, § 3-1035) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 72.06 NOTICE OF REJECTION.
   The Public Safety Director or the Town Manager shall act upon the
application for a parade permit within three days after the filing thereof. If
the Public Safety Director or the Town Manager disapproves the application, he
or she shall mail to the applicant, by return receipt registered mail within
three days after the date which the application was filed, a notice of his or
her action, setting forth the reason(s) for his or her denial of the permit and
a return of the post-parade cleanup deposit if applicable.
(1995 Code, § 3-1036) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 72.07 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Public Safety Director or the Town Manager in denying an application for
a parade permit shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade with
variances in either or all of the following: date, time or duration if a
compelling interest is involved. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate
permit shall, within three days after notice of the action of the Public Safety
Director or the Town Manager, file a written notice of acceptance with the
Public Safety Director or the Town Manager. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit
under this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 3-1037) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 72.08 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the Town Council. The appeal shall be taken within five days after
receipt of the notice of denial. The Town Council shall act not later than its
next regular meeting after receipt of the notice of appeal.
(1995 Code, § 3-1038) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 72.09 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Date of the parade;
   (B)   Starting time and termination time of parade;
   (C)   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade; and
   (D)   The number of persons, animals and motor vehicles that will be in the
parade.
(1995 Code, § 3-1039) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 72.10 POSSESSION OF PERMIT.
   The parade chairperson or other person heading or leading the activity shall
carry the parade permit upon his or her person during the conduct of the
parade.
(1995 Code, § 3-1040) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 72.11 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or any person, vehicle or animal
participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of any vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in
motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Public Safety Director shall have the
authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of
vehicles along a highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a
parade. The Public Safety Director may post signs to that effect, and it shall
be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation
thereof.
(1995 Code, § 3-1041) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Public Safety Director or the Town Manager shall have the authority to
summarily revoke a parade permit issued hereunder upon violation of the
standards of issuance as set forth in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 3-1042) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 72.13 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, or the terms and conditions of any permit issued
hereunder or any other applicable regulations, ordinances or laws.
(1995 Code, § 3-1043) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.14 POST-PARADE CLEANUP.
   It shall be the responsibility of the party to whom the parade permit is
issued to provide for the post- parade cleanup. A cleanup deposit may be
required by the town to ensure proper cleanup. A determination concerning
proper cleanup beyond normal street cleaning and sanitation efforts shall be
determined by the Streets and Sanitation Department Director.
(1995 Code, § 3-1044) (Ord. 05-16-89, passed 6-6-1989)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   U-turns
      
II.   Truck routes
      
III.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. U-TURNS.
   The following turns are prohibited:
 
Prohibited on Street Nature of Turn                        Ord. No. Date Passed
                     U-turn in either direction or to make
Congress Street      a left-hand turn into a parking space -        9-6-1988
                     on Congress Street
 
(1995 Code, § 8-1008) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Prohibited routes. The following shall be designated as “No Through
Trucks Streets” posted pursuant to S.C. Code Ann. § 56-5-720 with signs
prohibiting through trucks. This resolution shall take effect upon approval in
writing by the State Department of Transportation and the placement of the
requisite signs.
 
                                                                                  Ord./ Date
Street   Extent                                                                   Res.  Passed
                                                                                  No.
Evans    From its junction with State Highway 200 (Newberry Road) to its junction Res.  2-4-
Street   with US 321 Business (North Congress Street)                             -     2003
US 321
Business From its junction with Peay’s Ferry Road to its junction with Moultrie Res.  2-4-
(North   Street                                                                   -     2003
Congress
Street)
 
   (B)   Alternate routes.
Approaching Town From (Direction, Trucks Should Use Ord./Res. No. Date Passed
Street)
Approaching                                                                              Ord./
Town From   Trucks Should Use                                                            Res.  Date
(Direction,                                                                              No.   Passed
Street)
Through Trucks Alternate Routes:
            At intersection of Highway 200 and Highway 321 Business:
East via    To continue traveling west: use Highway 200 to junction with Highway 34;     Res.  2-4-
Highway 200 To travel north or south: travel Highway 200 to Highway 321 Bypass. Turn     -     2003
            right to travel north or turn left to travel south
North via   Utilize Highway 321 Bypass                                                   Res.  2-4-
Highway 321                                                                              -     2003
South via   Utilize Highway 321 Bypass                                                   Res.  2-4-
Highway 321                                                                              -     2003
West via    At intersection of Highway 34 and Highway 321 Bypass: turn left to travel    Res.  2-4-
Highway 34  north or turn right to travel south                                          -     2003
Through Trucks Unable to Clear Highway 200 Underpass:
            Just before underpass bear to right onto Peay’s Ferry Road continue to
East via    intersection with North Congress Street (Highway 321-Bus.). Turn right onto  Res.  2-4-
Highway 200 North Congress, travel to North Congress and Highway 200 intersection, turn  -     2003
            left onto Highway 200
            At intersection of Highway 34 and North Congress Street (Highway 321-Bus.),
West via    and Highway 200, turn right onto North Congress Street, continue until first Res.  2-4-
Highway 34  street on left (Peay’s Ferry), turn left onto Peay’s Ferry and continue  -     2003
            until merge with Highway 200
UniRoyal Freight Trucks et al.:
            From north turn left onto Moultrie Street; or from south turn right onto
North or    Moultrie Street. Travel Moultrie Street to intersection of South Congress
south via   Street. Turn right onto South Congress Street. Travel South Congress Street  Res.  2-4-
Highway 321 to junction with Old Camden Road. Turn left onto Old Camden Road. Proceed 1/ -     2003
Bypass      8 mile to Maple Street. Turn right onto Maple Street. Proceed to UniRoyal
            Plant
 
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle at a speed
greater than the following:
 
Street/Area                              Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed
The parking area and driveways connected
thereto and lying between Liberty Street
on the south, Washington Street on the   15 mph            -        - -
north, Congress Street on the west, and
the right-of-way of the Southern Railway
Company on the east
 
(1995 Code, § 8-2002(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Two-hour parking areas
SCHEDULE I. TWO-HOUR PARKING AREAS.
   The following parking areas are designated as two-hour parking spaces:
 
Spaces on Street/Area          Time Restriction            Ord. No. Date Passed
Between the streets of         Between 9:00 a.m until 5:00
Moultrie on the south end of   p.m. each Monday through    -        - -
town and College Street on the Saturday
north end of town
Washington Street behind the   Between 9:00 a.m until 5:00
Town Clock from Congress       p.m. each Monday through    -        - -
Street to the railroad tracks  Saturday
 
(1995 Code, § 8-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   TREES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   [RESERVED]
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   NUISANCE; PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Dangerous or vicious animals
   
90.04   Running at large - restraint
   
90.05   Rabies control
   
90.06   Collar and identification required
   
90.07   Removal of excrement
   
90.08   Injured or diseased pets
   
90.09   Nuisance animals
   
90.10   Animal care, generally
   
90.11   Care of animals during transport
   
90.12   Confinement of animals in motor vehicles
   
90.13   Seizure and right of entry to protect abandoned, neglected, or cruelly
treated animals
   
90.14   Performing animal exhibitions
   
90.15   Keeping of wild animals
   
90.16   Impounding
   
90.17   Redemption
   
90.18   Interference with Animal Control Officers
   
90.19   Complainant’s identification to remain confidential
   
90.20   Registration of exotic pets
   
90.21   Closely populated areas
   
90.22   Kennels and pet shops
 
   
90.99   Penalties
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals, S.C. Code §§ 47-1-10 et seq.
   Rabies control, S.C. Code §§ 47-5-10 et seq.
   Ordinances and regulations for the control of dogs and other domestic pets,
S.C. Code §§ 47-3-10 et seq.
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the regulation of dogs and
cats, to provide for the taking up and impounding of dogs and cats;
quarantining and euthanizing of dogs or other animals in certain cases;
creating and assigning fines for violations; and establishing the Animal
Control Officers and appropriate law enforcement agencies to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   It is in the best interest of the citizens and the town to provide for
the human control of animals within its boundaries.
   (B)   It is in the best interest of all the citizens of the town to be
protected from the health hazards caused when animals are not under control.
   (C)   It is in the best interest of all the citizens of the town to ensure
that all animals are well cared for and not abused, neglected, or mistreated.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in this chapter, unless a contrary intention is clearly
evidenced, the following terms shall be interpreted as herein defined.
   ABANDON. To desert, forsake, or intend to give up absolutely an animal
without securing another owner.
   ANIMAL. In addition to dog and cat, any organism of the kingdom of Animalia,
other than a human being.
   ANIMAL CONTROL DIRECTOR. The Winnsboro Town Manager and/or his or her
designee.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any officer and/or employee of the Town of Winnsboro
Public Safety Department, as well as those officers and employees who may
assist in carrying out the provisions of this chapter from the Fairfield County
Sheriffs Office and the Fairfield County Animal Control.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated and/or utilized by the town for the
purpose of impounding, care, adoption, or euthanasia of dogs and cats held
under authority of this chapter, including, but not limited to, Fairfield
County Animal Control and/or the Fairfield County Animal Adoption Center.
   AT LARGE. A pet running off the premises of the owner or keeper and not
under the physical control of the owner or keeper by means of a leash or other
similar restraining device.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Those species of animals that are exotic to humans. Exotic
animals include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Class Mammalia.
         (a)   Order Artiodactyla (only hippopotamuses and giraffes).
         (b)   Order Carnivora (only those specified below).
            1.   Family Felidae [(all species except domestic cats) this
includes lions, tigers, cougars, leopards, ocelots, servals].
            2.   Family Canidae (only wolves, coyotes, and jackals).
            3.   Family Ursidae (all bears).
            4.   Family Hyaenidae (hyenas).
         (c)   Order Perissodactyla (only rhinoceroses).
         (d)   Order Primates (only gorillas).
         (e)   Order Proboscidea (elephants).
      (2)   Class Reptilia.
         (a)   Order Squamata (only varanidae family animals specified below).
         (b)   Family Varanidae (only water monitors and crocodile monitors).
         (c)   Order Crocodilia (such as crocodiles, alligators, caimans,
gavials, etc.) all species.
   WINNSBORO ANIMAL CONTROL. The Town of Winnsboro, the Winnsboro Animal
Control Director, and Winnsboro Animal Control Officers.
   KENNEL. Any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises whereon or
wherein four or more dogs are kept or maintained for any commercial purpose;
provided, however, that if other animals or birds or fowl are bought, sold or
bartered, the classification to apply shall be that of a pet shop; and
provided, further, that the term "dog kennel" shall not be construed as
applying to a duly licensed veterinary hospital, nor the Fairfield County
Animal Control, nor the Fairfield County Animal Adoption Center.
   PET SHOP. Any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises whereon or
wherein is carried on a business of buying and/or selling or bartering birds,
animals or fowl; but this definition shall not be construed as applying to the
buying or selling of livestock, nor to the business or activities of a duly
licensed veterinary hospital, nor to the business or activities of the
Fairfield County Animal Control or Fairfield County Animal Adoption Center, nor
to a duly licensed dog kennel.
   LITTER. Multiple offspring that are born at one time from the same mother.
   NUISANCE. An animal that disturbs the rights of, threatens the safety of, or
damages a member of the general public, or interferes with the ordinary use and
enjoyment of their property.
   OWNER. Any person who:
      (1)   Has a property right in an animal;
      (2)   Keeps or harbors an animal or who has it in his or her care or acts
as its custodian; or
      (3)   Permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by
him or her for ten days.
   PET. A domestic dog (canis familiaris) and/or a domestic cat (felis catus
domesticus).
   SHELTER. A structure, including but not limited to, a doghouse or a stable
that protects an animal from the sun, rain, and other inclement weather or
environmental conditions.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. A pet that is on the premise of its owner if accompanied by
its owner or keeper and under the physical control of the owner or keeper by
means of a leash or other similar restraining device.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.03 DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section a dangerous or vicious animal shall
be defined to be any one of the following:
      (1)   Any animal with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack,
to cause injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or
other domestic animals without provocation; or
      (2)   Any animal which attacks a human being or other domestic animal one
or more times without provocation whether or not such attack occurs on the
premises of the animal's owner; or
      (3)   An animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
animal fighting or an animal trained for animal fighting.
   (B)   No person owning or harboring or having the care or the custody of a
dangerous animal may permit the animal to go unconfined on his premises. A
dangerous animal is unconfined as the term is used in this section if the
animal is not securely confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or run area upon the person's premises. The pen or run area also
must have either: 1) sides six feet high, or 2) a secure top. If the pen or
structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be imbedded into
the ground at a depth of no less than one foot. However, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to any animal that is owned by a licensed security
company and is on patrol in a confined area.
   (C)   Any animal that has been determined to be a dangerous or vicious
animal may be impounded by Winnsboro Animal Control. Such animals shall not be
euthanized unless (1) the owner has surrendered the animal to the Animal
Shelter and has completed and signed a surrender form, (2) until a hearing is
held before an appropriate magistrate and the magistrate has determined that
the animal should be euthanized, or (3) at the discretion of the Animal Control
Officer at the scene. However, if the magistrate has determined that the owner
may redeem the animal, the Winnsboro Animal Control shall release the animal
upon receipt of all redemption fees as described in §
90.17 below. If the owner does not pay the redemption fees within five days of
the magistrate's order, the animal shall become the property of the Animal
Shelter and may be euthanized or otherwise provided for as determined in the
sole discretion of Animal Control.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.04 RUNNING AT LARGE - RESTRAINT.
   (A)   All dogs must be kept under restraint or confinement. Any dog not so
restrained will be deemed unlawfully running at large.
   (B)   Dog(s) that are participating in hunting under the supervision or
control of the owner(s), obedience trials, conformation shows, tracking tests,
herding trials, or lure courses shall not be considered "at large."
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.05 RABIES CONTROL.
   In the event a vicious animal bites a human, and the owners cannot provide
proof of rabies vaccination, at the discretion of Animal Control, with
cooperation from DHEC, an order shall be issued to euthanize the animal and
immediately ship the head to the DHEC lab for scientific determination with
regard to whether the animal is rabid.
   (A)   After any animal has been quarantined pursuant to South Carolina
Rabies Control Act, is unclaimed by its owner, and the Animal Shelter employees
have made a good faith effort to contact the identified owner as required by
S.C. Code § 47-3-540, may dispose of the animal by adoption or by euthanasia or
the animal may be turned over to any organization established and utilized by
the town for the purpose of caring for animals, such as the Humane Society.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (C), a litter of unidentifiable dogs or cats
six months of age or younger may be turned over to any organization established
for the purpose of caring for animals immediately, so long as the litter is
turned over for life-saving purposes.
   (C)   After any animal has been impounded for five calendar days and is
unclaimed by its owner, and after the Animal Shelter employees have made a good
faith effort to contact the identified owner as required by S.C. Code § 47-3-
540, the Animal Shelter employees may dispose of the animal by adoption or by
euthanasia or the animal may be turned over to any organization established for
the purpose of caring for animals.
   (D)   Complete records must be kept by shelter officials as to the
disposition of all animals impounded.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.06 COLLAR AND IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having custody of a dog over four
months of age within the town must see that every dog owned wears a collar
bearing an identification plate which states the name, address, and phone
number of the owner.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT.
   The owner of every pet shall be responsible for the removal of any
excretions deposited by his or her pet on public walks, roadways, recreation
areas, or private property other than that of the owner.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.08 INJURED OR DISEASED PETS.
   Anyone striking a pet with a motor vehicle or bicycle within the town limits
shall notify the Animal Control who will then take action necessary to make
proper disposition of the pet. Any pet received by the Animal Shelter in
critical condition from wounds, injuries, or disease may receive sustaining
treatment by a licensed veterinarian until such time as the owner of the pet is
contacted. Any such pet in critical condition, as described in this section,
may be humanely destroyed if the owner cannot be contacted within four hours.
If the pet is in severe pain or severely injured, it may be humanely destroyed
immediately. Any veterinarian fees incurred must be paid by the owner(s) prior
to redemption.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.09 NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   The actions of an animal constitute a nuisance when an animal disturbs
the rights of, threatens the safety of, or damages a member of the general
public, or interferes with the ordinary use and enjoyment of their property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess, or maintain
an animal in such a manner so as to constitute a public nuisance. By way of
example, and not of limitation, the following acts or actions by an owner or
possessor of any animal are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and are,
therefore, unlawful:
      (1)   Failure to exercise sufficient restraint necessary to control an
animal as required by §
90.04.
      (2)   Allowing or permitting an animal to damage the property of anyone
other than its owner, including, but not limited to, turning over garbage
containers or damaging gardens, flowers, or vegetables.
      (3)   Failure to maintain a dangerous animal in a manner other than that
which is described in §
90.03.
      (4)   Maintaining animals in an environment of unsanitary conditions
which results in offensive odors or is dangerous to the animal or to the public
health, welfare, or safety.
      (5)   Maintaining his or her property in a manner that is offensive,
annoying, or dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare of the
community because of the number, type, variety, density, or location of the
animals on the property.
      (6)   Maintaining an animal that is diseased and dangerous to the public
health.
      (7)   Maintaining an animal that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps
at, attacks, or barks at pedestrians, bicycles, or vehicles.
      (8)   Allowing or permitting an animal to bark, whine, or howl in an
excessive, unwarranted, and continuous or untimely fashion, or make other noise
in such a manner so as to result in a serious annoyance or interference with
the reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring premises from the hours of 10:
00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
   (C)   An animal that has been determined to be a habitual nuisance by the
Winnsboro Animal Control may be impounded and may not be returned to the owner
until said owner can produce evidence to demonstrate that the situation
creating the nuisance has been abated.
   (D)   Every female animal in heat shall be kept confined in a building or
secure enclosure in such manner as will not create a nuisance by attracting
other animals.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.10 ANIMAL CARE, GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide his or her animal
(s) with sufficient food and water, proper shelter, and protection from the
weather as necessary, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, and
humane care and treatment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to beat, cruelly treat, neglect,
torment, overload, overwork, or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate,
or permit any dogfight or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to dye or color artificially any
animal or fowl, including but not limited to rabbits, baby chickens, and
ducklings, or to bring any dyed or colored animal or fowl into the town.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to abandon an animal in the town.
   (E)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, so that the same
shall be liable to be eaten by any domestic animal.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for a person to tether, fasten, chain, tie, rope,
cable, or restrain a dog, or cause a dog to be tethered, fastened, chained,
tied, roped, cabled, or restrained, to a house, tree, fence, or any stationary
object.
      (1)   Notwithstanding division (F) of this section, if a dog must be
restrained other than by fence or other humane enclosure, a person may restrain
the dog by complying with the following requirements:
         (a)   If a trolley system is used, it must be at least 20 feet in
length between the two trolley stop points, must be at least three feet above
the height of the dog, and must allow the dog to move freely along the length
of the trolley runner line without being entangled and being able to access
adequate shelter.
         (b)   The trolley system must allow the dog free access to adequate
food, water, and shelter based on weather conditions. The dog shall not be
connected to either system in extreme weather conditions that may endanger the
life or health of the dog.
         (c)   The trolley system must be attached to a properly fitting collar
or harness, not less than one inch in width and that is one inch greater in
diameter than the animal's neck or torso. All collars or harnesses used must be
made of nylon, leather, or other durable and non-metallic material and must be
fitted so as to not cause injury to the dog or embed itself in the dog's neck.
The use of pinch collars, choke collars, or a chain directly around the dog's
neck is prohibited.
         (d)   The line or leash connecting the trolley system to the dog's
collar or harness must be made of a durable non-chain material that prevents
knotting, fraying, and shortening of the tether or line.
         (e)   The trolley system must be connected to only one dog. If more
than one dog is connected to a trolley system in the same area, the dogs must
be separated by a sufficient distance to prevent entanglement. Dogs shall not
be connected to trolley system at the site of an unoccupied, abandoned, or
condemned dwelling or building.
         (f)   Dogs under six months of age or that are sick or in distress
shall not be connected to a trolley system.
         (g)   A female dog in heat must be confined within a building, secure
enclosure or otherwise protected from access by other dogs to prevent
reproduction.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall be constructed to prohibit a person from
walking a dog with a hand-held leash or similar restraint.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.11 CARE OF ANIMALS DURING TRANSPORT.
   During transportation, an animal must be provided adequate space and
ventilation, and in addition, must not be confined in one area for more than 24
consecutive hours without being adequately exercised, rested, fed, and watered.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.12 CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   In order to protect the health and safety of an animal, any Animal
Control Officer, law enforcement officer, firefighter, or rescue squad worker,
who has probable cause to believe that an animal is confined in a motor vehicle
under conditions that are likely to cause suffering, injury, or death to the
animal due to heat, cold, lack of adequate ventilation, or under other
endangering conditions, may enter the motor vehicle by any reasonable means
under the circumstances after making a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other person responsible for the animal.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to the
transportation of horses, cattle, sheep, swine, poultry, or other livestock.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.13 SEIZURE AND RIGHT TO ENTRY TO PROTECT ABANDONED, NEGLECTED, OR CRUELLY
TREATED ANIMALS.
   (A)   If the owner does not give permission, an Animal Control Officer may
obtain a search warrant to enter any premises upon which it is suspected a
violation of this chapter exists. Once upon the premises, the officer may
examine such animal and may take immediate custody of the animal when, in his
or her opinion, it requires removal from the premises. The Animal Control
Officer shall thereafter petition the appropriate magistrate for a hearing,
which shall be a civil proceeding. The hearing shall be set as soon as possible
from the date of the seizure of the animal to determine whether the owner, if
known, is able to adequately provide for the animal and is a fit person to own
the animal. The Animal Control Officer shall cause to be served upon the owner,
if known and residing within the jurisdiction wherein the animal is found,
written notice at least three days prior to the hearing of the time and place
of the hearing. If the owner is not known or cannot be found within the
jurisdiction wherein the animal was found, the Animal Control Officer shall
post a copy of the notice at the property where the animal was seized. The pet
or animal shall remain in the custody and care of the Animal Shelter until such
matter is heard before the magistrate. The magistrate shall make the final
determination as to whether the animal is returned to the owner or whether
title is transferred to the Animal Shelter whereby the animal may be put up for
adoption or humanely destroyed. If the magistrate orders the return of the
animal to its owner, the Animal Control Officer shall release the animal upon
receipt from the owner of all redemption fees as described in §
90.17 below. If the owner does not pay the redemption fees within five days of
the magistrate's order, the animal shall become the property of the Animal
Shelter and may be placed for adoption or euthanized. The court, in determining
whether the owner is able to adequately provide for the animal or is a fit
person to own the animal, may take into consideration, among other things, the
owner's past record of convictions under this chapter, or one similar thereto,
and the owner's mental and physical condition.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
euthanization of a critically injured or ill animal for humane purposes.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.14 PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No performing animal exhibition or circus shall be permitted in which
animals are induced or encouraged to perform through the use of chemical,
mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which will cause, or is
likely to cause, physical injury or suffering.
   (B)   All equipment used on a performing animal shall fit properly and be in
good working condition.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.15 KEEPING OF WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his premises any wild or
vicious animal for display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or
for a fee. This section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks,
performing animal exhibitions or circuses.
   (B)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept any wild animal as a pet
except as allowed under state law.
   (C)   The following animals are deemed to be wild per se:
      (1)   All nondomestic members of the family felidae;
      (2)   All nondomestic members of family canis;
      (3)   Wolves, wolf-dog hybrids containing any percentage of wolf,
coyotes, and foxes;
      (4)   Bears;
      (5)   Alligators, crocodiles, and caimans;
      (6)   Scorpions; or
      (7)   Venomous reptiles.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.16 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Any animal found within the area of the town in violation of the
provisions of this chapter may be caught and impounded by town authorities. If
an animal cannot be caught in a safe, efficient manner, Animal Control Officer
(s) may tranquilize the animal by use of a tranquilizer gun. The Winnsboro
Animal Control may, thereafter, make available for adoption or humanely destroy
impounded animals not redeemed within five days. The Town of Winnsboro is not
responsible for the death of an animal due to the use of a tranquilizer gun for
animals in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   When a person arrested is, at the time of the arrest, in charge of an
animal, the Winnsboro Animal Control may take charge of the animal and deposit
the animal in a safe place of custody or impound the animal at its Animal
Shelter.
   (C)   All animals held at its Animal Shelter after the legal detention
period has expired and its owner has not claimed the animal shall be the
property of the Animal Shelter and subject to being placed for adoption,
fostered, or euthanized at the sole discretion of Winnsboro Animal Control.
   (D)   Immediately after impounding a pet that is wearing a rabies tag, or
another identification tag, or a pet that has an implanted identification
microchip or an obvious identification tattoo, a reasonable effort will be made
to locate the owner and to inform him or her of the circumstances under which
he or she may regain custody of the pet impounded by the Winnsboro Animal
Control reflecting its disposition.
   (E)   Any animal found at large may be impounded by the Animal Control
Officer and may not be redeemed by its owner unless such redemption is
authorized by the Winnsboro Animal Control, with assurance from the owner that
proper care and custody will be maintained.
   (F)   Any animal surrendered to the Animal Shelter may be adopted or
euthanized at any time provided there is a completed and signed surrender form
on file for the animal concerned.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.17 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of any pet that has been impounded under the
provisions of this chapter, and which has not been found to be dangerous or
vicious, shall have the right to redeem such pet at any time within five days
upon payment of all actual costs expended for the care and treatment of the
pet, including the actual cost of: (1) all required inoculations and medical
care; (2) the spay or neuter procedure which shall be required prior to
redemption if the pet is not spayed or neutered; (3) in the case of dogs, the
cost of installing a microchip should one not already be present; and (4) a
daily fee as determined from time to time by the Winnsboro Animal Control
Director.
   (B)   Any animal determined by an appropriate magistrate, as provided for in
§
90.03 above, to be a dangerous or vicious animal but eligible for redemption
may be redeemed, within five days of the order of the magistrate, upon the
following conditions:
      (1)   The owner or person harboring or having the care, or the custody of
the redeemed animal shall not permit the animal to go unconfined on his
premises as provided in §
90.03, above;
      (2)   The owner or person harboring or having the care or the custody of
the redeemed animal shall pay all actual costs expended for the care and
treatment of the pet, including the actual cost of: (1) all required
inoculations and medical care and (2) the spay or neuter procedure if the pet
is not spayed or neutered, as well as a daily fee as determined from time to
time by the Winnsboro Animal Control Director.
   (C)   An owner of animal that is redeemed pursuant to provisions §
90.17(A) or (B) above will not be required to spay or neuter the animal if any
of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   Any owner of a pet who can furnish a statement from a licensed
veterinarian that the pet, due to health reasons, could not withstand the spay/
neuter surgery; or
      (2)   Any owner of one or more purebred pets who can furnish proof of
participation in nationally recognized conformation or performance events; or
      (3)   Any owner of a dog that is currently being used for hunting
purposes and is properly registered with the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources and whose owner has a valid South Carolina hunting license
(provided, however, that if such dog is not properly registered with the South
Carolina Department of Natural Resources then the owner has three days if
necessary to register such dog and the failure to do so within three days will
result in the dog becoming the property of the Animal Shelter); or
      (4)   Any individual who is handicapped and who owns a dog which is used
for seeing, hearing, or other such assistance purposes.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.18 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, or molest an
Animal Control Officer in the performance of his or her duty or seek to release
any pet in his/her custody without his/her consent.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.19 COMPLAINANT’S IDENTIFICATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   The identity, or information tending to reveal the identity, of any
individual who in good faith makes a complaint or otherwise discloses
information, which alleges a violation of this chapter, shall remain
confidential to the agency receiving the report unless the complainant
authorizes the release of his or her identity, provided, however, the South
Carolina Freedom of Information Act is complied with by the Town of Winnsboro.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.20 REGISTRATION OF EXOTIC PETS.
   Any person owning or harboring or having the care or the custody of an
exotic animal shall register the animal with Winnsboro Animal Control on a form
to be prepared and approved by Winnsboro Animal Control Director.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.21 CLOSELY POPULATED AREAS.
   (A)   A closely populated area shall mean homes that are close enough that
the number of dogs could affect the quality of life of your neighbor. By way of
example, but not all inclusive, characteristics of a closely populated area
include the ability to see or hear neighboring residences, residences that
share a common driveway, etc.
   (B)   Any person living within a closely populated area in the town shall
not own or harbor or have the care or the custody of no more than five dogs
that are over the age of one year.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.22 KENNELS AND PET SHOPS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, establish or maintain
any kennel or pet shop without first obtaining a permit from Winnsboro Animal
Control Director. The granting of the permit shall be in the discretion of the
Winnsboro Animal Control Director, who shall take into consideration the type
of construction to be employed as it relates to sanitation and manner in which
the animals, birds or fowl are to be housed, as well as the character of the
person making application, and such zoning regulations as may be in effect. The
Winnsboro Animal Control Director may appoint an agent to act on his or her
behalf in investigating applications for the permits.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of a pet shop or kennel permit by Winnsboro Animal
Control, the applicant shall pay to the Winnsboro Animal Control an annual
license fee of $20 for the privilege of maintaining the dog kennel or pet shop.
The annual license shall be for the fiscal year or any part thereof during
which the kennel or pet shop shall be maintained and shall be due and payable
in advance on the first day of July of each year and shall expire on the
thirtieth day of June of the next year, provided the above-mentioned permit has
not been revoked.
   (C)   The permit for the maintenance and operation of a dog kennel or pet
shop may be revoked at any time for cause when, in the opinion of the Winnsboro
Animal Control Director or his or her agent, the dog kennel or pet shop is not
being properly maintained or operated from the standpoint of sanitation of the
premises or proper care of the animals, birds, or fowl. Upon revocation of the
permit the license issued by Winnsboro Animal Control for the then current
fiscal year shall be null and void and the entire fee paid for the annual
license shall be forfeit.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 90.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding $500. Each day’s continuing violation shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   (B)   The owner or person having charge or custody of an animal who is
convicted of any violation of this chapter forfeits ownership, charge, or
custody of the animal and at the discretion of the court, the person who is
charged with or convicted of a violation of this chapter must be ordered to pay
costs incurred to care for the animal and related expenses.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 91: TREES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Creation and establishment of a Town Tree Board
   
91.03   Term of office
   
91.04   Compensation
   
91.05   Duties and responsibilities
   
91.06   Operation
   
91.07   Street tree species to be planted
   
91.08   Spacing
   
91.09   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
91.10   Distance from street corners and fire hydrants
   
91.11   Utilities
   
91.12   Public tree care
   
91.13   Tree topping
   
91.14   Pruning; corner clearance
   
91.15   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
91.16   Removal of stumps
   
91.17   Interference with Town Tree Board
   
91.18   Arborists’ license and bond
   
91.19   Review by Town Council
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the town, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the town. Tree ownership along streets is determined by street
ownership.
(1995 Code, § 3-1051) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.02 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A TOWN TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a Town Tree Board for the town,
which shall consist of seven members, citizens and residents of this town, who
shall be appointed by the Council of the town.
(1995 Code, § 3-1052) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the seven persons to be appointed by the Council shall be three
years, except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board
shall be for one year and the term of two other members of the first Board
shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term
of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term.
(1995 Code, § 3-1053) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986; Ord. 03-16-10, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 91.04 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(1995 Code, § 3-1054) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate, counsel
and develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. The plan will be
presented annually to the Town Council and, upon its acceptance and approval,
shall constitute the official comprehensive town tree plan for the town. The
Board, when requested by the Town Council, shall consider, investigate, make
findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of question coming
within the scope of its work.
(1995 Code, § 3-1055) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.06 OPERATION.
   The Board shall keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(1995 Code, § 3-1056) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.07 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The following list constitutes the official street tree species for
the town:
Small:                    Medium (Cont’d)
Bradford Pear             Sourwood
Cherry Laurel             Southern Magnolia
Crab Apple                Weeping Willow
Crepe Myrtle              White Ash
Flowering Dogwood
Japanese Red Maple        Large:
Popcorn Tree              American Birch
Redbud                    American Linden (Basswood)
Wax Myrtle                Bald Cypress
                          Black Gum
Medium:                   Green Ash
American Holly            Hackberry
Deodar Cedar              Hickories
Ginko                     Laurel Oak
Leyland Cypress           Northern Red Oak
Live Oak (Darlington Oak) Pecans
Paulownia                 Pines
Red Cedar                 Southern Red Oak
Red Maple                 Sycamore
River Birch               Tulip Poplar
Sassafras                 Water Oak
Sawtooth Oak              White Oak
                          Willow Oak
 
   (B)   Species other than those included in this list may be planted as
street trees with written permission of the Town Tree Board.
(1995 Code, § 3-1057) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.08 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in §
91.07, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in
special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect.
(1995 Code, § 3-1058) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.09 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
91.07, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees,
four feet.
(1995 Code, § 3-1059) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.10 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet from any street corner,
measured from the point nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street tree
shall be planted within ten feet of any fire hydrant.
(1995 Code, § 3-1060) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.11 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
91.07 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility.
(1995 Code, § 3-1061) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.12 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of the public grounds.
   (B)   The Town Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed any
tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason of its
nature, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or
other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or
other pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners, providing that the selection and location of the
trees is in accordance with §§
91.07 through
91.11.
(1995 Code, § 3-1062) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.13 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or town
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to a degree so as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes, or certain trees under utility wire or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this chapter at
the determination of the Town Tree Board.
(1995 Code, § 3-1063) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
town shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the light
from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so
that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street
or sidewalk. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
The town shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a
light or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device or sign.
(1995 Code, § 3-1064) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.15 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The town shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the town’s service area when the trees
constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which
constitutes a potential threat to other trees within the town’s service area.
The Town Tree Board will notify, in writing, the owners of the trees. Removal
shall be done by the owners at their own expense within 60 days after the date
of service of notice. In the event of failure of owners to comply with these
provisions, the town shall have the authority to remove the trees and charge
the cost of removal on the owner’s property tax notice.
(1995 Code, § 3-1065) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.16 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(1995 Code, § 3-1066) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.17 INTERFERENCE WITH TOWN TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Town Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
trees, park trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 3-1067) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 ARBORISTS’ LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any firm or individual to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
town without first applying for and procuring a business license. The license
fee shall be required of any public service firm or individual doing the work
in the pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any license shall be
issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability
insurance in the amount of $500,000 for bodily injury and $500,000 property
damage insurance for an aggregate of $1,000,000 indemnifying the town or any
person injured or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as
herein described. Additionally, the firm or person shall file evidence of
possession of worker’s compensation insurance.
(1995 Code, § 3-1068) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986; Ord. 03-16-10, passed 3-16-2010)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 REVIEW BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Town Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the Town Tree Board to the Town Council who may hear the matter and
make the final decision.
(1995 Code, § 3-1069) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction
or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $100.
(1995 Code, § 3-1070) (Ord. passed 6-3-1986)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fire Department
   
92.01   Fire Department established
   
92.02   Volunteer members
   
92.03   Driving over fire hose
   
92.04   Interfering with equipment
   
92.05   Enforcement
   
92.06   Tampering with alarm system
   
92.07   False fire alarms
Fire Prevention Code
   
92.20   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
92.21   Enforcement
   
92.22   Variances
   
92.23   Appeals
Cross-reference:
   Public Safety, see
Chapter 32
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 92.01 FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Town Fire Department to be headed by the
Public Safety Director and any other paid and volunteer members and employees
as may be determined necessary by Council.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be the Public Safety Director.
   (C)   The compensation for paid members shall be as may be determined by
Council.
(1995 Code, § 2-2001)
§ 92.02 VOLUNTEER MEMBERS.
   Volunteer members should participate in fire prevention and protection
activities under the rules and procedures for the administration of the
Department established by the Public Safety Director.
(1995 Code, § 2-2002)
§ 92.03 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No person shall drive or operate any vehicle at any time over or across any
fire hose in or upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks or public ways of the town
at any place where this hose is being used by the Fire Department.
(1995 Code, § 2-2003) (Ord. passed 1-26-1948)
§ 92.04 INTERFERING WITH EQUIPMENT.
   No person other than a duly enrolled member of the Fire Department shall
ride upon the fire trucks of the town at any time, nor use, borrow or interfere
with any Fire Department equipment, or attempt to use the equipment at the
scene of a fire unless authorized to do so by the Public Safety Director or the
captain of fire suppression on the scene.
(1995 Code, § 2-2004) (Ord. passed 1-26-1948)
§ 92.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever the Fire Department is answering an alarm or operating at the scene
of a fire or other emergency, every enrolled member of the Department is hereby
empowered and authorized to control and direct motor vehicle traffic, stop or
move vehicles, and enforce all provisions of this subchapter and any other code
provisions the enforcement of which is deemed necessary to assist in the
control of the fire or other emergency.
(1995 Code, § 2-2005) (Ord. passed 1-26-1948)
§ 92.06 TAMPERING WITH ALARM SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to willfully, maliciously or
mischievously interfere or tamper with any fire alarm box or any of the
appliances or apparatus connected therewith, located within the corporate
limits.
(1995 Code, § 2-2006) (Ord. passed 1-26-1948) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to willfully, maliciously or
mischievously turn or give or cause to be turned in or given a false fire alarm
within the corporate limits.
(1995 Code, § 2-2007) (Ord. passed 1-26-1948) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.20 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code adopted in §
150.001, of which code not less than three copies have been and now are filed
in the office of the Clerk and is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits; provided however, that in the event of any
conflict between the provisions of the 2006 Fire Prevention Code and the
provisions of this code of ordinances, state law or town ordinance, rules or
regulations, the provisions of this code, state law or town ordinances, rules
or regulations, shall prevail and be controlling.
(1995 Code, § 2-2021)
§ 92.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Code adopted by this chapter shall be enforced by the Public Safety
Director or the fire suppression officer.
(1995 Code, § 2-2022)
§ 92.22 VARIANCES.
   The Public Safety Director shall have power to grant variances to any of the
provisions of the Code adopted by this subchapter upon application in writing
by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there are
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
Code; provided that the spirit of the Code shall be observed, public safety
secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of the variance when
granted or allowed and decision of the Fire Inspector thereon shall be entered
upon the records and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(1995 Code, § 2-2023)
§ 92.23 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Fire Inspector shall disapprove an application or refuse to
grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the
Code adopted by this subchapter do not apply or that the true intent and
meaning of the Code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant may appeal from the decision of the Fire Inspector to the Manager
within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(1995 Code, § 2-2024)
CHAPTER 93: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Obstruction generally; consent required
   
94.02   Same; removal required within time fixed or required
   
94.03   Same; permanent obstruction prohibited
   
94.04   Building materials in streets, sidewalks and public places; permission
required
   
94.05   Same, protection by barricades, lights
   
94.06   Same; removal of conditions
   
94.07   Overhanging obstructions
   
94.08   Public work force
Excavations
   
94.20   Permit required
   
94.21   Protection by barricades, lights and the like
   
94.22   Restoration of surface
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 OBSTRUCTION GENERALLY; CONSENT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, cause to be obstructed or
permit the obstruction by any means or in any manner and to any extent of any
public sidewalk, footway, public street or highway, public square, alley or
other public place or grounds within the municipality for any purpose, without
the consent of the Manager.
(1995 Code, § 3-1001) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 SAME; REMOVAL REQUIRED WITHIN TIME FIXED OR REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to remove, or cause to
be removed, any obstruction on any street, highway or other public place within
the time for which the Manager may have given his or her permission for the
obstruction thereof; or if no time is set when permission is given, the
obstruction shall be removed within the time as the Manager may require.
(1995 Code, § 3-1002) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 SAME; PERMANENT OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No permission shall be granted for the placing of a permanent obstruction on
any of the streets, highways or other public places.
(1995 Code, § 3-1003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES; PERMISSION
REQUIRED.
   Building materials shall not be laid on any sidewalk, street or public place
until the consent of the Manager is first obtained; and it shall be the duty of
the person desiring so to use the streets to inform the Manager when permission
is desired to lay material thereon, and otherwise to obstruct the places for
the purpose of erecting a building adjoining the street, where some obstruction
thereof is necessary, what space will be needed and for what length of time the
obstruction will be necessary, and the Manager shall then give permission
accordingly, imposing then and from time to time, reasonable conditions as he
or she may consider necessary or proper for the protection of the public and
the public property.
(1995 Code, § 3-1004)
§ 94.05 SAME; PROTECTION BY BARRICADES, LIGHTS.
   While the obstructions provided for herein remain on the streets, sidewalks
or other public places, suitable safeguards by day and by night shall be
maintained by the contractor, owner or person in charge of the work, for the
protection of the public, by roping off, using lanterns and other proper means.
(1995 Code, § 3-1005)
§ 94.06 SAME; REMOVAL OF CONDITIONS.
   At the expiration of the time provided for herein, all obstructions,
materials and trash or other things shall be removed by the owner or contractor
and the street, sidewalk or public place shall be restored to as good condition
in every respect as before the materials or other obstructions were laid
thereon.
(1995 Code, § 3-1006)
§ 94.07 OVERHANGING OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to build or
to extend on or over the streets or sidewalks of the town any awning, shelter,
signboard or other structure without a permit from the Manager.
   (B)   All awnings, shelters, signboards or other structures built on or over
the sidewalks of the town by permission of the Manager shall be strongly and
securely made, and safely built and fastened so that no danger to passers-by
will be suffered or threatened; shall in no way obstruct, hinder or interfere
with the use of the sidewalk; and shall not have less than six feet, ten inches
clear space above the sidewalk.
   (C)   In the event any judgment should be secured against the town by reason
of injury to person or property inflicted by the instrumentalities referred to
herein, the town shall be entitled to recover against the person, firm or
corporation owning or in control of the instrumentalities the amount of the
judgment, together with the interest thereon and its attorney fees incurred in
connection with bringing action against the person, firm or corporation.
   (D)   The town, neither by this section nor by the issue of any permit
pursuant thereto nor by any other act on the part of itself or any of its
officers, servants, agents or employees, represents or warrants to any member
of the public the safety of any of the instrumentalities referred to in this
section or waives any of its legal rights to contest or defend any action
brought against it by reason of alleged defects in the instrumentalities, all
of which rights are specifically reserved.
(1995 Code, § 3-1007) (Ord. passed 1-26-1948) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PUBLIC WORK FORCE.
   (A)   There is herewith established a public work force for the town and
every able-bodied prisoner sentenced in the Municipal Court to imprisonment for
failure to pay a fine imposed by the Court may be required to work upon the
public streets, public ways, municipal parks, municipal buildings, drains and
other municipal public works of the town during the term of imprisonment.
   (B)   The Public Safety Director is herewith designated as officer-in-charge
of the municipal public works force and shall be responsible for the proper
operation of the municipal work force, the control, security and supervision of
the prisoners serving thereon. The Public Safety Director may designate the
municipal prisoners who are to work upon the municipal public works force
during their imprisonment and prisoners who are physically unable to perform
physical labor or who are dangerous or who cannot safely be allowed to work on
the force may be confined in the county jail or on the county public work
force. Municipal prisoners, when not engaged in work on the municipal public
works shall be confined in the County Detention Center, or on the county public
works force.
(1995 Code, § 3-1009) (Ord. passed 4-7-1970)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 94.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig any ditch, excavation, hole or
opening in any street, sidewalk or public place without the permission of the
Manager or some other proper town officer. Permission shall not be granted
until the purpose for which it is to be made or dug shall be made known, and
then the ditch, excavation, hole or opening shall be used for the purpose so
declared and no other.
(1995 Code, § 3-1021) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 PROTECTION BY BARRICADES, LIGHTS AND THE LIKE.
   Every known or reported ditch, excavation, hole or opening in any street,
sidewalk or public place, no matter for what purpose made, shall be securely
and safely covered over with boards or other suitable material, or enclosed in
a secure way as to prevent accidents to persons, animals and vehicles, both
during the night and day, when the workers are not engaged thereon.
(1995 Code, § 3-1022)
§ 94.22 RESTORATION OF SURFACE.
   Every ditch, excavation, hole or opening in any street, sidewalk or public
place shall be as speedily filled as possible, and shall not be kept open
longer than is absolutely necessary. The street, sidewalk or public place shall
be restored in accordance with State Highway Department regulations to as good
condition with as good materials as existing before the ditch, excavation, hole
or opening was made.
(1995 Code, § 3-1023)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
94.03 shall be fined in the discretion of the court, not exceeding $300 or be
sentenced to 30 days in jail, or both.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2002)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Prohibited acts in town parks
§ 95.01 PROHIBITED ACTS IN TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to pick, cut, uproot, dig up,
break, remove or in any way injure, damage or destroy any plant, shrub, grass,
flower or tree growing within the limits of the Fortune Springs Park or within
any other public park of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to pasture or graze, under any
condition, any cows, mules, horses, sheep, goats, hogs or cattle of any kind
within the limits of Fortune Springs Park or any other public park of the town,
or to allow any of the aforesaid animals to wander through or stray into a park
or parks at any time whatsoever.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, injure or deface any
building, bench, fence or other structure including the swimming pool within
Fortune Springs Park or other park, or to remove dirt or topsoil therefrom, or
to intentionally or carelessly scatter trash, paper or litter of any kind
therein, or start any fire therein except in places provided.
(1995 Code, § 3-2001) (Ord. passed 1-26-1948) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCE; PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Powers of the public officer
   
96.03   Specific standards
   
96.04   Weeds
   
96.05   Repair, closing or demolition of unfit dwellings
   
96.06   Motor vehicles
   
96.07   Littering
   
96.08   Service of complaints or orders
   
96.09   Power of municipality to declare nuisances not impaired
   
96.10   Sale of materials removed or demolished
   
96.11   Funds for enforcement
   
96.12   Adjudication
   
96.13   Provisions hereof are cumulative
   
96.14   Exclusive remedies
 
   
96.99   General penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DILAPIDATED. Partial ruin or decay as from age, wear or neglect.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure or part thereof, used and occupied for
human habitation or intended to be so used and includes any outhouses and
appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and shall also
include buildings used for business sales such as store buildings, bars and
restaurants and any other buildings of similar nature which house an
enterprise, the object of which is the production of income or intended to be
so used.
   NUISANCE. Any rubbish, debris, and other unhealthy and unsightly material or
conditions which constitute a public nuisance. Grass, weeds or any vegetation
whatsoever, not edible or planted for some useful or ornamental purpose, to
grow or remain upon the premises so as to exceed an unsightly height or to
throw off any unpleasant or noxious odor or to conceal any filthy deposit or
vermin shall be considered a nuisance, and also accumulation of trash or waste
material upon any property.
   OWNER. The holder of the title to real estate in fee simple and every
mortgage of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. The Town of Winnsboro and all individuals, associates,
corporations and others who have interests of record in a lot or other real
property and any who are in possession thereof or have any interest therein and
against whom a complaint has be served under this chapter.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of
any department or branch of the government of the town to include any
intergovernmental or contractual agreements relating to health, fire, or
building regulations or to the activities concerning real property in the town.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The officer or officers who are authorized by this chapter
to exercise the powers prescribed by this chapter and his or her designated
agent or agents.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
right-of-way.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power, other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery, and shall include, without
limitations, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor and camper.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.02 POWERS OF THE PUBLIC OFFICER.
   (A)   The public official shall have and exercise such powers as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions
of this chapter, where applicable, including the following powers and in
addition to the others granted in this chapter:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling condition in the municipality in order
to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
      (2)   To investigate conditions involving real property within the
municipality regarding cleanliness, rubbish, debris and other unhealthy and
unsightly material or conditions which constitute a public nuisance;
      (3)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (4)   To enter upon any real estate for the purpose of making
examinations, provided such entries be made in such manner as to cause the
least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (5)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and
employees as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter; and
      (6)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this
chapter to such officers and agents as he or she may designate.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer of the town is hereby designated as the
public officer and appointed to exercise the power prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.03 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Nuisance. Whenever a complaint is filed with the public officer by a
resident of the municipality charging that any lot or real property within the
limits of the town constitutes a public nuisance, the public officer shall, if
his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue
and cause to be served upon the owner of such real property, a complaint
stating the charges in that respect.
   (B)   He or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact and
support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order requiring an abatement of the nuisance within 14 days of
the date of the service of such order.
   (C)   If the owner fails to comply with the aforesaid order to abate the
nuisance, the public officer will issue a citation which will state the date
and time in which the owner will be required to appear in municipal court for
adjudication of the complaint.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.04 WEEDS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation owning or occupying any property within
the town shall permit any grass or weeds or any vegetation whatsoever, not
edible or planted for some useful or ornamental purpose, to grow or remain upon
the premises so as to exceed an unsightly height or to throw off any unpleasant
or noxious odor or to conceal any filth deposit or vermin. Any grass, weeds or
other vegetation growing upon the premises in the town in violation of any of
the provisions of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
detrimental to the health, safety, cleanliness and comfort of the inhabitants
of the town.
   (B)   The owner of the premises, as to vacant premises or premises occupied
by the owner, and the occupant thereof, in case of premise occupied by other
than the owner thereof, shall remove, trim or cut all grass, weeds or other
vegetation growing or remaining upon the premises, and shall remove any and all
accumulation of trash or waste material remaining upon the premises.
   (C)   The public officer is hereby authorized to give notice, by registered
mail, return receipt requested to the owner or occupant, as the case may be, of
any premises where grass, weeds, vegetation, trash and waste material have
accumulated, directing and requiring the occupant to trim or cut the grass,
weeds or vegetation, and remove the trash and waste material, within 14 days
after the issuance of the notice.
   (D)   If the owner fails to comply with the aforesaid order to abate the
nuisance, the public officer will issue a citation which will state the date
and time in which the owner will be required to appear in municipal court for
adjudication of the complaint.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.05 REPAIR, CLOSING OR DEMOLITION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Whenever it is found that there exists in the Town of Winnsboro
dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to:
      (1)   Dilapidation,
      (2)   Defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other
calamities,
      (3)   Lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities, or
      (4)   Other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary,
dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety or morals or otherwise inimical
to the welfare of the residents of the Town of Winnsboro, the Town of Winnsboro
shall exercise its police powers to repair, close or demolish any such dwelling
in the manner described in this section.
   (B)   Dwellings which are unfit for human habitation shall be repaired,
closed or demolished in the following manner:
      (1)   The Town Manager or his designee (hereinafter “Manager”) is
designated to exercise the powers described by this section;
      (2)   That whenever the Manager on his own motion believes that a
dwelling is unfit for human habitation, the Manager shall, if his preliminary
investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served
upon the owner of and all parties in interest in such dwelling a complaint
stating the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before
the Manager or his designee at a place therein fixed not less than ten days and
no more than 30 days after the serving of such complaint;
      (3)   The owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to file
an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or otherwise and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of
evidence prevailing on courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in
hearings before the Manager;
      (4)   If, after such notice and hearing, the Manager determines that the
dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation he or she shall
state in writing his or her findings of fact in support of such determination
and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order as
follows:
         (a)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, requiring
the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve
such dwelling to render it fit for human habitation or to vacate and close the
dwelling as a human habitation, or
         (b)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot
be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling,
requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to remove or
demolish such dwelling.
      (5)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or
improve or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Manager may cause such
dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or to be vacated and closed; the
Manager may further cause to be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling so
closed a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human
habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is
prohibited and unlawful”;
      (6)   If the owner fails to comply with the order to remove or demolish
the dwelling, the Manager may cause such dwelling to be removed or demolished;
      (7)   The amount of the cost of such repairs, alterations or
improvements, vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Manager
shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred and
shall be collectable in the same manner as municipal taxes; and
      (8)   If the town in demolishing the unfit dwelling as authorized herein
contracts with a third party not employed by the municipality to do the work,
it must bid the work in conformity with the procurement code applicable to the
Town of Winnsboro.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.06 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Parked vehicles to be licensed. It shall be unlawful to park or store
for more than 72 hours on any lot zoned for residential use, except under a
suitable car cover or in enclosed buildings, an automobile, truck, trailer, bus
or other motor vehicle or any kind or type with or without operative motive
power, required or permitted to be registered and/or licensed under the laws of
the state, or any frame, chassis or body thereof, unless there be affixed to
the vehicle current license plates.
   (B)   Abandoned, dismantled, junked, wrecked or inoperative vehicles.
      (1)   Abandonment prohibited. No person shall abandon any vehicle within
the town and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the town,
for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle to appear
to have been abandoned.
      (2)   Dismantled, junked, wrecked, or inoperative vehicle(s) generally.
No person in charge or control of property within the town whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled,
inoperative, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on such property
longer than 48 hours. The presence of such a vehicle or parts thereof, is
hereby declared a public nuisance. This section shall not apply with regard to
a vehicle on private property under a suitable car cover or in an enclosed
building, or any vehicles on the premise of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place, manner and licensed by the town when necessary to the operation
of such business enterprise, or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or
depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town.
      (3)   Notice to remove. Whenever it comes to the attention of the town
that any nuisance as defined in division (B)(2) of this section, a notice in
writing shall be served upon the occupant of the land where the nuisance exists
or, in case there is no such occupant, then upon the owner of the property or
his or her agency, notifying him or her of the existence of the nuisance and
requesting its removal in the time specified in this section.
      (4)   Responsibility for removal. Upon proper notice and opportunity to
be heard, the owner of the abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle and the owner or occupant of the private property on which the same is
located, either or all of them, shall be responsible for its removal.
      (5)   Notice procedure. The town shall give notice of removal to the
owner or occupant of the private property where it is located at least five
days before the time of the compliance. Notice is to be posted in a conspicuous
place upon the private property on which the vehicle is located and duplicate
copies served on the owner and/or occupant or sent by certified mail to the
last known address or the owner and/or occupant of the private property.
      (6)   Content of notice. The notice shall contain the request for removal
within a specified time.
      (7)   Failure to comply. If the violation described in the notice has not
been remedied within the period of compliance, the Public Safety Director or
his or her designee will issue a citation stating the date and time at which
the owner will be required to appear in municipal court for adjudication of the
nuisance.
      (8)   Leaving dismantled, junked, wrecked or inoperative vehicles(s) on
the street or highway. No person shall leave any partially dismantled,
inoperative, wrecked or junked vehicle on any street or highway in the town.
      (9)   Impoundment of vehicles left on any right-of-way, road or highway.
The Public Safety Director shall have full power and authority to remove, or
have removed, any vehicle left on any right-of-way, road or highway within the
town, which reasonably appears to be in violation of this section or is lost,
stolen and unclaimed. Such a vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed
or disposed of in accordance with S.C. Code §§ 56-5-5610 and 56-5-5680.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.07 LITTERING.
   (A)   Littering prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to dump,
throw upon, deposit or leave trash, refuse, garbage, cans, bottles, wrecked
cars or any other litter on any property belonging to another without
permission from the owner thereof or on or along or upon any public property
within the town.
   (B)   Litter from vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive and
operate upon the public streets of the town any truck, trailer or wagon which
has been recently used for the purpose of hauling pine logs, hay, straw, paper
or other like material which tends to litter the streets, and upon which there
remains any bark, straw, hay, paper, resulting from the hauling until the
vehicle has been thoroughly cleaned of trash or litter and rendered reasonably
free therefrom, the trash or litter is covered or otherwise prevented from
falling from the vehicle.
   (C)   Disposal of ashes.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to empty ashes in a way that they may be blown
or scattered upon adjoining property or persons in the community.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to dispose of coals, embers or clinkers except
when they have been thoroughly cooled or extinguished, or when they have been
buried or otherwise been rendered harmless to persons or property.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.08 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS OR ORDERS.
   Complaints, orders, notices and any and all other papers issued by the
public officer provided for under this chapter shall be served upon parties in
interest either personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested, but
if the whereabouts of such person or persons is unknown and cannot be
ascertained by the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence and
the public officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of
such complaint or order upon such person may be made by publishing it once a
week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality in which the real property is located.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.09 POWER OF MUNICIPALITY TO DECLARE NUISANCES NOT IMPAIRED.
   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to impair or limit in any way
the power of a municipality to define and declare nuisances and to cause their
removal or abatement by summary proceedings, or otherwise.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.10 SALE OF MATERIALS REMOVED OR DEMOLISHED.
   If a dwelling is removed or demolished by a public officer, he or she shall
sell such material from such dwelling as are marketable and shall credit the
proceeds of such sale against the costs of the removal or demolition and any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the municipal court by the public
officer which shall be secured in such a manner as may be directed by such
court and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled
thereto by final order of decree of such a court.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.11 FUNDS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Upon the passage of this chapter, the Town Council shall prepare an estimate
of the annual expense necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
The town may make such appropriations from the revenues as it may deem
necessary for the purposes set forth herein and in addition may accept and
apply grants or donations to assist in the carrying out of the provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.12 ADJUDICATION.
   Unless otherwise specified, all public nuisance violations shall be
adjudicated by the Winnsboro Municipal Court.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.13 PROVISIONS HEREOF ARE CUMULATIVE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers
of the courts or any department of this municipality to enforce any provisions
of its charter or its ordinances or regulations, or to prevent or punish
violations thereof and the powers conferred by this chapter shall be in
addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.14 EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES.
   The remedies herein provided shall be exclusive remedies and no person
affected by an order of the public officer shall be entitled to recover any
damages for action taken pursuant to any order of the public officer or because
of compliance by such person with any order of the public officer.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
§ 96.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise specified, violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine not exceeding $500. Each day any violation of any
provision of this chapter shall continue constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 4152014-B, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 62, passed 10-18-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   ADVERTISING
      
112.   TA`XICABS
      
113.   MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Purpose and duration
   
110.04   Business licensee tax, refund
   
110.05   Registration required
   
110.06   Deductions, exemptions, and charitable organizations
   
110.07   False application unlawful
   
110.08   Display and transfer
   
110.09   Administration of chapter
   
110.10   Inspection and audits
   
110.11   Assessments, payment under protest, appeal
   
110.12   Delinquent license taxes, partial payment
   
110.13   Notices
   
110.14   Denial of license
   
110.15   Suspension or revocation of license
   
110.16   Appeals to Council or its designee
   
110.17   Consent, franchise, or license required for use of streets
   
110.18   Confidentiality
   
110.19   Classification and rates
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged or intending to engage in any business, calling,
occupation, profession, or activity engaged in with the object of gain,
benefit, or advantage, in whole or in part within the limits of the town, is
required to pay an annual license tax for the privilege of doing business and
obtain a business license as herein provided.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any business, calling, occupation, profession, or activity engaged
in with the object of gain, benefit, or advantage, either directly or
indirectly.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization that is determined by the Internal
Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income taxes under 26 USC § 501 (c)
(3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (10) or (19).
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. A benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or eleemosynary
purpose that does not result in personal gain to a sponsor, organizer, officer,
director, trustee, or person with ultimate control of the organization.
   CLASSIFICATION. That division of businesses by NAICS codes subject to the
same license rate as determined by a calculated index of ability to pay based
on national averages, benefits, equalization of tax burden, relationships of
services, or other basis deemed appropriate by the Council.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Winnsboro.
   DOMICILE. A principal place from which the trade or business of a licensee
is conducted, directed, or managed. For purposes of this chapter, a licensee
may be deemed to have more than one domicile.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts or gross revenue of a business, received or
accrued, for one calendar or fiscal year collected or to be collected from
business done within the municipality. If the licensee has a domicile within
the municipality, business done within the municipality shall include all gross
receipts or revenue received or accrued by such licensee. If the licensee does
not have a domicile within the municipality, business done within the
municipality shall include only gross receipts or revenue received or accrued
within the municipality. In all cases, if the licensee pays a business license
tax to another county or municipality, then the licensee’s gross income for the
purpose of computing the tax within the municipality must be reduced by the
amount of revenues or receipts taxed in the other county or municipality and
fully reported to the municipality. Gross income for business license tax
purposes shall not include taxes collected for a governmental entity, escrow
funds, or funds that are property of a third party. The value of bartered goods
or trade-in merchandise shall be included in gross income. The gross receipts
or gross revenues for business license purposes may be verified by inspection
of returns and reports filed with the Internal Revenue Service, the South
Carolina Department of Revenue, the South Carolina Department of Insurance, or
other government agencies. In calculating gross income for certain businesses,
the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Gross income for agents shall be calculated on gross commissions
received or retained, unless otherwise specified. If commissions are divided
with other brokers or agents, then only the amount retained by the broker or
agent is considered gross income.
      (2)   Except as specifically required by S.C. Code § 38-7-20, gross
income for insurance companies shall be calculated on gross premiums written.
      (3)   Gross income for manufacturers of goods or materials with a
location in the municipality shall be calculated on the lesser of:
         (a)   Gross revenues or receipts received or accrued from business
done at the location;
         (b)   The amount of income allocated and apportioned to that location
by the business for purposes of the business’ state income tax return; or
         (c)   The amount of expenses attributable to the location as a cost
center of the business. Licensees reporting gross income under this provision
shall have the burden to establish the amount and method of calculation by
satisfactory records and proof. Manufacturers include those taxpayers reporting
a manufacturing principal business activity code on their federal income tax
returns.
   LICENSE OFFICIAL. A person designated to administer this chapter.
Notwithstanding the designation of a primary License Official, the municipality
may designate one or more alternate License Officials to administer particular
types of business licenses, including without limitation for business licenses
issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under S.C. Article 20,
Chapter 9, Title 58 and Chapters 7 and 45, Title 38.
   LICENSEE. The business, the person applying for the license on behalf of the
business, an agent or legal representative of the business, a person who
receives any part of the net profit of the business, or a person who owns or
exercises control of the business.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Winnsboro, South Carolina.
   NAICS. The North American Industry Classification System for the United
States published under the auspices of the Federal Office of Management and
Budget.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, LLP, LLC, cooperative non-profit
membership, corporation, joint venture, association, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, syndicate, holding company, or other group or combination
acting as a unit, in the singular or plural, and the agent or employee having
charge or control of a business in the absence of the principal.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.03 PURPOSE AND DURATION.
   The business license required by this chapter is for the purpose of
providing such regulation as may be required for the business subject thereto
and for the purpose of raising revenue for the general fund through a privilege
tax. Except as set for below for business licenses issued to contractors with
respect to specific construction projects, each yearly license shall be issued
for the 12 month period of May 1 to April 30. A business license issued for a
construction contract may, at the request of the licensee, be stated to expire
at the completion of the construction project; provided, any such business
license may require that the licensee file, by each April 30 during the
continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance, including
but not limited to a revised estimate of the value of the contract. If any
revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount for
which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to pay a
license fee at the then-prevailing rate on the excess amount. The provisions of
this chapter and the rates herein shall remain in effect from year to year as
amended by the Council.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.04 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX, REFUND.
   (A)   The required license tax shall be paid for each business subject
hereto according to the applicable rate classification on or before the due
date on April 30 in each year, except for those businesses in Rate Class 8 for
which a different due date is specified. Late payments shall be subject to
penalties as set forth in §
110.12 hereof, except that admitted insurance companies may pay before June 1
without penalty.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business and
for each classification or business conducted at one place. If gross income
cannot be separated for classifications at one location, the business license
tax shall be computed on the combined gross income for the classification
requiring the highest rate. The business license tax must be computed based on
the licensee’s gross income for the calendar year preceding the due date, for
the licensee’s 12 month fiscal year preceding the due date, or on a 12 month
projected income based on the monthly average for a business in operation for
less than one year. The business license tax for a new business must be
computed on the estimated probable gross income for the balance of the license
year. A business license related to construction contract projects may be
issued on a per-project basis, at the option of the taxpayer. No refund shall
be made for a business that is discontinued.
   (C)   A licensee that submits a payment greater than the amount owed may
request a refund. To be considered, a refund request must be submitted in
writing to the municipality before June 1 immediately following the April 30 on
which the payment was due and must be supported by adequate documentation
supporting the refund request. The municipality shall approve or deny the
refund request, and if approved shall issue the refund to the business, within
30 days afer receipt of the request.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.05 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, agent, or legal representative of every business subject to
this chapter, whether listed in the classification index or not, shall register
the business and make application for a business license on or before the due
date of each year; provided, a new business shall be required to have a
business license prior to operation within the municipality, and an annexed
business shall be required to have a business license within 30 days of the
annexation. A license for a bar (NAICS 722410) must be issued in the name of
the individual who has been issued the corresponding state alcohol, beer, or
wine permit or license and will have actual control and management of the
business.
   (B)   Application shall be on the then-current standard business license
application as established and provided by the Director of the South Carolina
Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office and shall be accompanied by all information
about the applicant, the licensee, and the business deemed appropriate to carry
out the purpose of this chapter by the License Official. Applicants may be
required to submit copies of portions of state and federal income tax returns
reflecting gross receipts and gross revenue figures.
   (C)   The applicant shall certify under oath that the information given in
the application is true, that the gross income is accurately reported (or
estimated for a new business) without any unauthorized deductions, and that all
assessments, personal property taxes on business property, and other monies due
and payable to the municipality have been paid.
   (D)   The municipality shall allow application, reporting, calculation, and
payment of business license tax through the business license tax portal hosted
and managed by the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office, subject to
the availability and capability thereof. Any limitations in portal availability
or capability do not relieve the applicant or licensee from existing business
license or business license tax obligations.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.06 DEDUCTIONS, EXEMPTIONS, AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   No deductions from gross income shall be made except income earned
outside of the municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to
some other municipality or county and fully reported to the municipality, taxes
collected for a governmental entity, or income which cannot be included for
computation of the tax pursuant to state or federal law. Properly apportioned
income from business in interstate commerce shall be included in the
calculation of gross income and is not exempted. The applicant shall have the
burden to establish the right to exempt income by satisfactory records and
proof.
   (B)   No person shall be exempt from the requirements of the chapter by
reason of the lack of an established place of business within the municipality,
unless exempted by state or federal law. The License Official shall determine
the appropriate classification for each business in accordance with the latest
issue of NAICS. No person shall be exempt from this chapter by reason of the
payment of any other tax, unless exempted by state law, and no person shall be
relieved of liability for payment of any other tax or fee by reason of
application of this chapter.
   (C)   Wholesalers are exempt from business license taxes unless they
maintain warehouses or distribution establishments within the municipality. A
wholesale transaction involves a sale to an individual who will resell the
goods and includes delivery of the goods to the reseller. It does not include a
sale of goods to a user or consumer.
   (D)   A charitable organization shall be exempt from the business license
tax on its gross income unless it is deemed a business subject to a business
license tax on all or part of its gross income as provided in this section. A
charitable organization, or any affiliate of a charitable organization, that
reports income from for-profit activities or unrelated business income for
federal income tax purposes to the Internal Revenue Service shall be deemed a
business subject to a business license tax on the part of its gross income from
such for-profit activities or unrelated business income.
   (E)   A charitable organization shall be deemed a business subject to a
business license tax on its total gross income if any net proceeds of
operation, after necessary expenses of operation, inure to the benefit of any
individual or any entity that is not itself a charitable organization as
defined in this chapter, or any net proceeds of operation, after necessary
expenses of operation, are used for a purpose other than a charitable purpose
as defined in this chapter. Excess benefits or compensation in any form beyond
fair market value to a sponsor, organizer, officer, director, trustee, or
person with ultimate control of the organization shall not be deemed a
necessary expense of operation.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021 ) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 FALSE APPLICATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person subject to the provisions of this
chapter to make a false application for a business license, or to give or file,
or direct the giving or filing of, any false information with respect to the
license or tax required by this chapter.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 DISPLAY AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   All persons shall display the license issued to them on the original
form provided by the License Official in a conspicuous place in the business
establishment at the address shown on the license. A transient or non-resident
shall carry the license upon his person or in a vehicle used in the business
readily available for inspection by any authorized agent of the municipality.
   (B)   A change of address must be reported to the License Official within
ten days after removal of the business to a new location and the license will
be valid at the new address upon written notification by the License Official
and compliance with zoning and building codes. Failure to obtain the approval
of the License Official for a change of address shall invalidate the license
and subject the licensee to prosecution for doing business without a license. A
business license shall not be transferable, and a transfer of controlling
interest shall be considered a termination of the old business and the
establishment of a new business requiring a new business license, based on old
business income.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.09 ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The License Official shall administer the provisions of this chapter,
collect license taxes, issue licenses, make or initiate investigations and
audits to insure compliance, initiate denial or suspension and revocation
procedures, report violations to the Municipal Attorney, assist in prosecution
of violators, produce forms, undertake reasonable procedures relating to the
administration of this chapter, and perform such other duties as may be duly
assigned.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.10 INSPECTION AND AUDITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the
License Official or other authorized agent of the municipality is empowered to
enter upon the premises of any person subject to this chapter to make
inspections and to examine and audit books and records. It shall be unlawful
for any person to fail or refuse to make available the necessary books and
records. In the event an audit or inspection reveals that the licensee has
filed false information, the costs of the audit shall be added to the correct
business license tax and late penalties in addition to other penalties provided
herein. Each day of failure to pay the proper amount of license tax shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The License Official shall have the authority to make inspections and
conduct audits of businesses to ensure compliance with this chapter. Financial
information obtained by inspections and audits shall not be deemed public
records, and the License Official shall not release the amount of business
license taxes paid or the reported gross income of any person by name without
written permission of the licensee, except as authorized by this chapter, state
or federal law, or proper judicial order. Statistics compiled by
classifications are public records.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 ASSESSMENTS, PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST, APPEAL.
   (A)   Assessments, payments under protest, and appeals of assessment shall
be allowed and conducted by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of S.C.
Code § 6-1-410, as amended. In preparing an assessment, the License Official
may examine such records of the business or any other available records as may
be appropriate and conduct such investigations and statistical surveys as the
License Official may deem appropriate to assess a business license tax and
penalties as provided herein.
   (B)   The License Official shall establish a uniform local procedure
consistent with S.C. Code § 6-1-410 for hearing an application for adjustment
of assessment and issuing a notice of final assessment; provided that for
particular types of business licenses, including without limitation for
business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under
S.C. Code Article 20, Chapter 9, Title 58, and Chapters 7 and 45, Title 38, the
municipality, by separate ordinance, may establish a different procedure and
may delegate one or more rights, duties, and functions hereunder to the
Municipal Association of South Carolina.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.12 DELINQUENT LICENSE TAXES, PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   For non-payment of all or any part of the correct license tax, the
License Official shall impose and collect a late penalty of 5% of the unpaid
tax for each month or portion thereof after the due date until paid. Penalties
shall not be waived. If any license tax remains unpaid for 60 days after its
due date, the License Official shall report it to the Municipal Attorney for
appropriate legal action.
   (B)   Partial payment may be accepted by the License Official to toll
imposition of penalties on the portion paid; provided, however, no business
license shall be issued or renewed until the full amount of the tax due, with
penalties, has been paid.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 NOTICES.
   The License Official may, but shall not be required to, mail written notices
that business license taxes are due. If notices are not mailed, there shall be
published a notice of the due date in a newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality three times prior to the due date in each year. Failure to
receive notice shall not constitute a defense to prosecution for failure to pay
the tax due or grounds for waiver of penalties.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.14 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The License Official may deny a license to an applicant when the
License Official determines:
      (1)   The application is incomplete or contains a misrepresentation,
false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression of a material fact;
      (2)   The activity for which a license is sought is unlawful or
constitutes a public nuisance per se or per accidens;
      (3)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business has been convicted within the previous ten years of an offense
under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving dishonest
conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a business, or
an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (4)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to the
business or to a similar business in the municipality or in another
jurisdiction;
      (5)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax or
fee;
      (6)   A licensee has actual knowledge or notice, or based on the
circumstances reasonably should have knowledge or notice, that any person or
employee of the licensee has committed a crime of moral turpitude on the
business premises, or has permitted any person or employee of the licensee to
engage in the unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods on the business
premises and has not taken remedial measures necessary to correct such
activity; or
      (7)   The license for the business or for a similar business of the
licensee in the municipality or another jurisdiction has been denied,
suspended, or revoked in the previous license year.
   (B)   A decision of the License Official shall be subject to appeal as
herein provided. Denial shall be written with reasons stated.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.15 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   When the License Official determines:
      (1)   A license has been mistakenly or improperly issued or issued
contrary to law;
      (2)   A licensee has breached any condition upon which the license was
issued or has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   A licensee has obtained a license through a fraud,
misrepresentation, a false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression
of a material fact in the license application;
      (4)   A licensee has been convicted within the previous ten years of an
offense under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving
dishonest conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a
business, or an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (5)   A licensee has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related
to the business; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any
tax or fee.
   (B)   The License Official may give written notice to the licensee or the
person in control of the business within the municipality by personal service
or mail that the license is suspended pending a single hearing before Council
or its designee for the purpose of determining whether the suspension should be
upheld and the license should be revoked.
   (C)   The written notice of suspension and proposed revocation shall state
the time and place at which the hearing is to be held, and shall contain a
brief statement of the reasons for the suspension and proposed revocation and a
copy of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.16 APPEALS TO COUNCIL OR ITS DESIGNEE.
   (A)   Except with respect to appeals of assessments under §
110.11 hereof, which are governed by S.C. Code § 6-1-410, any person aggrieved
by a determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation of a business
license by the License Official may appeal the decision to the Council or its
designee by written request stating the reasons for appeal, filed with the
License Official within ten days after service by mail or personal service of
the notice of determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation.
   (B)   A hearing on an appeal from a license denial or other determination of
the License Official and a hearing on a suspension and proposed revocation
shall be held by the Council or its designee within ten business days after
receipt of a request for appeal or service of a notice of suspension and
proposed revocation. The hearing shall be held upon written notice at a regular
or special meeting of the Council, or, if by designee of the Council, at a
hearing to be scheduled by the designee. The hearing may be continued to
another date by agreement of all parties. At the hearing, all parties shall
have the right to be represented by counsel, to present testimony and evidence,
and to cross-examine witnesses. The proceedings shall be recorded and
transcribed at the expense of the party so requesting. The rules of evidence
and procedure prescribed by Council or its designee shall govern the hearing.
Following the hearing, the Council by majority vote of its members present, or
the designee of Council if the hearing is held by the designee, shall render a
written decision based on findings of fact and conclusions on application of
the standards herein. The written decision shall be served, by personal service
or by mail, upon all parties or their representatives and shall constitute the
final decision of the municipality.
   (C)   Timely appeal of a decision of Council or its designee does not
effectuate a stay of that decision. The decision of the Council or its designee
shall be binding and enforceable unless overturned by an applicable appellate
court after a due and timely appeal.
   (D)   For business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license
taxes under S.C. Code Article 20, Chapter 9, Title 58, and Chapters 7 and 45,
Title 38, the municipality may establish a different procedure by ordinance.   
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.17 CONSENT, FRANCHISE, OR LICENSE REQUIRED FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain,
or operate in, on, above, or under any street or public place under control of
the municipality any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure, or facility for
utilities, communications, cablevision, or other purposes without a consent
agreement or franchise agreement issued by the Council by ordinance that
prescribes the term, fees, and conditions for use.
   (B)   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance
approving the agreement and shall be consistent with limits set by state law.
Existing franchise agreements shall continue in effect until expiration dates
in the agreements. Franchise and consent fees shall not be in lieu of or be
credited against business license taxes unless specifically provided by the
franchise or consent agreement.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except in accordance with proper judicial order or as otherwise provided by
law, no official or employee of the municipality may divulge or make known in
any manner the amount of income or any financial particulars set forth or
disclosed in any report or return required under this chapter. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the publication of statistics so
classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns.
Any license data may be shared with other public officials or employees in the
performance of their duties, whether or not those duties relate to enforcement
of this chapter.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.19 CLASSIFICATION AND RATES.
   (A)   The business license tax for each class of businesses subject to this
chapter shall be computed in accordance with the current business license rate
schedule, designated as Appendix A to Ordinance 111621-A, which may be amended
from time to time by the Council.
   (B)    The current business license class schedule is designated as Appendix
B to Ordinance 111621-A. Hereafter, no later than December 31 of each odd year,
the municipality shall adopt, by ordinance, the latest standardized business
license class schedule as recommended by the Municipal Association of South
Carolina and adopted by the Director of the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal
Affairs Office. Upon adoption by the municipality, the revised business license
class schedule shall then be appended to Ordinance 111621-A as a replacement
Appendix B.
   (C)   The classifications included in each rate class are listed with NAICS
codes, by sector, sub-sector, group, or industry. The business license class
schedule (Appendix B) is a tool for classification and not a limitation on
businesses subject to a business license tax. The classification in the most
recent version of the business license class schedule adopted by the Council
that most specifically identifies the subject business shall be applied to the
business. The License Official shall have the authority to make the
determination of the classification most specifically applicable to a subject
business.
   (D)   A copy of the class schedule and rate schedule shall be filed in the
office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Ord. 082013, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 110612C,
passed 11-5-2012; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days or both, upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the
offender of liability for delinquent taxes, penalties, and costs provided for
in this chapter.
(Ord. 031913, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111621-A, passed 12-7-2021)
CHAPTER 111: ADVERTISING
Section
   
111.01   Loudspeakers
   
111.02   Posting on public property or public easement
   
111.03   Posting property in which town has interest or regulatory power
   
111.04   Posting on private property or public easement
§ 111.01 LOUDSPEAKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or play any public address
system or sound amplification equipment upon the streets of the town for the
purpose of advertising, making announcements, playing music, amplifying
political speeches or announcements or for any other purpose whatsoever, unless
and until the person has obtained from the Town Manager a written permit to
operate or use the system or equipment. The permit issued by the Manager may be
unlimited or limited as to the date, time and area during which the equipment
may be used. Application for permission to use any sound equipment must be in
writing and set forth the name of applicant, for what purpose the equipment
will be used, the time and date when the equipment will be used, whether the
equipment will be mobile or stationary and where it will be operated within the
town.
(1995 Code, § 7-2001) (Ord. passed 7-1-1947) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 POSTING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY OR PUBLIC EASEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to place any advertisement, business, political or
otherwise, or any notice or sign of any nature on public property or public
easement within the town, by the use of a placard, picture, paper, circular,
printing or by any means or device whatsoever.
(1995 Code, § 7-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 POSTING PROPERTY IN WHICH TOWN HAS INTEREST OR REGULATORY POWER.
   It shall be unlawful to place any advertisement, notice or sign of any
nature on property in which the town has an interest or the right to regulate,
such as telephone poles, internet/cable TV, electric poles or towers.
(1995 Code, § 7-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 POSTING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY OR PUBLIC EASEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to place any advertisement, notice or sign of any
nature on private property or public easement, without written consent of the
owner or lessee of the property.
(1995 Code, § 7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: TAXICABS
Section
   
112.01   Town license required
   
112.02   Liability insurance required
   
112.03   License number to be displayed on vehicle
   
112.04   Application for license; suspension
   
112.05   Name of driver to be recorded
§ 112.01 TOWN LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate upon the
streets or public ways of the town and taxicab or automobile for the conveyance
of passengers for hire unless the vehicle has been duly licensed by the town as
herein provided and the provisions of this and any other applicable provisions
of this code have been complied with fully.
(1995 Code, § 7-4001) (Ord. passed 12-28-1959) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every taxicab or automobile operated for the conveyance of passengers
for hire within the town shall have thereon and be covered by a minimum amount
per state law for property damage liability insurance and a minimum amount per
state law for public liability insurance because of bodily injury to or death
of one person in any one accident and an amount per state law because of bodily
injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident, which insurance
shall cover the persons riding in the taxicab or automobile used for conveyance
of persons for hire, as well as all other persons for hire, as well as all
other persons and which shall be kept fully in force during the entire time the
taxicab or automobile is licensed to operate by the town. It shall be unlawful
and a violation of this chapter to operate any taxicab at any time whatsoever
for conveyance of passengers unless it is fully covered by the above mentioned
liability insurance. No license for the operation of a taxicab shall be issued
to any person, nor any taxicab shall be issued to any person, nor any taxicab
licensed by any town official, until an insurance policy covering the taxicab
in the above set forth amounts and paid up for not less than six months, or
other satisfactory proof of paid up insurance coverage has been filed with the
Finance Director or the Public Safety Director.
   (B)   If, for any reason, the insurance coverage, or any part of it, on any
vehicle should be cancelled, or if it should not be renewed so as to provide
continuous coverage at the end of the six months’ paid-up period, the town
license for the operation of the vehicle as a taxicab shall automatically be
suspended at the same time as the cancellation or lapse of the insurance, and
it shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter to operate the vehicle as
a taxicab for the transportation of passengers for hire until insurance in the
required amount has been reinstated thereon. Notice of cancellation, lapse or
reinstatement of any insurance policy on any taxicab must be given to the
Finance Director or Public Safety Director by the owner of the taxicab or by
the insurance company or agency handling the insurance coverage.
   (C)   Each day of operation of a taxicab without insurance or a town license
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(1995 Code, § 7-4002) (Ord. passed 12-28-1959)
§ 112.03 LICENSE NUMBER TO BE DISPLAYED ON VEHICLE.
   (A)   Every taxicab licensed by the town shall be assigned a license number
and this number shall be painted on the two front doors of the taxicab after
the words “Winnsboro License No.                  .” The words and numerals
shall be painted in letters at least three inches high and with waterproof
paint of a bright color contrasting with the color of the vehicle. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the owner of any taxicab from placing on any
vehicle, in addition to the above, the name of the owner or firm or corporation
operating the taxicab. Whenever any taxicab is sold, or ceases to be used as a
taxicab, the person selling it or owning it at the time it so ceases to be used
as a taxicab shall erase the above required words and numerals and shall turn
his or her license in to the Finance Director or Public Safety Director.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon the streets of the
town after it has ceased to be used as a taxicab unless the words and numerals
mentioned above have been erased or removed.
(1995 Code, § 7-4003) (Ord. passed 12-28-1959) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; SUSPENSION.
   No person shall operate a taxicab or automobile for the conveyance of
passengers for hire within the town limits unless the person is duly licensed
to operate motor vehicles under the state laws and until he or she shall have
been duly licensed to operate a taxicab by the town. In order to obtain this
town taxicab operator’s license, the person desiring a license shall apply for
it in writing under oath, on a form to be supplied by the town, giving his or
her name, age, place of residence, name of owner of the taxicab, number of his
or her state driver’s license and information as to previous convictions for
violation of motor vehicle laws or town ordinances relating to traffic
regulation. The Public Safety Director, after receipt of an application for the
license, may require the applicant to undergo a driving test if he or she deems
this necessary to determine the applicant’s ability to drive a motor vehicle.
The Town Manager, with or without the recommendation of the Public Safety
Director, may suspend any taxicab driver’s license for reckless driving of the
taxicab, or for any violation of any provision of this code or state law, which
suspension may either be vacated or approved by the Council at the next regular
meeting after the date of the suspension. The license holder shall have the
right to appear at this meeting of the Council and be heard by Council.
(1995 Code, § 7-4001) (Ord. passed 12-28-1959) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 NAME OF DRIVER TO BE RECORDED.
   Every person owning a taxicab by the town shall notify the Finance Director
or Public Safety Director in writing, the name of the operator or driver of his
or her vehicle or vehicles, stating the number of each vehicle to be operated
by each driver. Only one licensed driver is authorized to drive a particular
taxicab and any change of operators must be given to the above named officials
in writing before a change of drivers can be made.
(1995 Code, § 7-4005) (Ord. passed 12-28-1959)
CHAPTER 113: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Beer and wine consumption regulated
   
113.02   Curb service prohibited
   
113.03   Music machines regulated
   
113.04   Performance bond required
§ 113.01 BEER AND WINE CONSUMPTION REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to display or consume any beer or wine
in or from any unsealed or open container on any public street, sidewalk,
parking area, public park or at any public gathering or any other public place
or public area within the town, except upon or within premises specifically
licensed for the public consumption of beer or wine thereon or therein;
provided, however, that no charge shall be made hereunder when an arrest is
made within the town on any other charge relating to any alcoholic beverage.
(1995 Code, § 7-5001) (Ord. 12-4-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 CURB SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation in the town to
carry on the type of business known as curb service; that is, to make sales and
deliveries from business establishments to customers while the customers remain
in vehicles parked in the streets of the town.
(1995 Code, § 7-5002) (Ord. passed 1-26-1948) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 MUSIC MACHINES REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, to place or
to allow to be placed on his, her or its premises or place of business in the
town limits, for purposes of operation or for any use by the public or any
person, whomsoever, any automatic record-playing machine, commonly called
nickelodeons or piccolos, without first applying to the Town Manager and
obtaining from the Manager special permission to so place or install the
machines.
   (B)   In considering and passing upon the question of granting permission to
place upon premises or to install thereon any of the machines or other similar
instruments, regard shall be had by the Town Manager to the proximity of place
where the machine or machines are proposed to be installed to neighboring
houses, churches and schools; to the length of time that the machine will
usually be operated at night; the type of business carried on in the place
where the machine is proposed to be placed, whether dance hall, restaurant,
café, store, drug store, so-called beer gardens or night clubs; to the location
of the place where the machine is proposed to be placed within the town limits,
whether in the business section or residential sections; and whether the
machines will be so near to neighboring houses as to cause annoyance to the
occupants thereof and to interfere with the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood.
   (C)   No automatic record-playing machine hereinabove referred to shall be
played after the hour of 11:00 p.m. unless the Manager shall grant special
permission to the owner of the place of business where the machine is located
to play or allow it to be played before this hour for special events or special
functions.
(1995 Code, § 7-5004) (Ord. passed 10-5-1948) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 PERFORMANCE BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person or firm not operating a regular established business duly
licensed by the town to do business within the town will be required to provide
proof of a performance bond in the minimum amount of $2,500.
   (B)   Proof of bonding will be submitted to the Finance Director showing the
amount of bond, the writer of the bond, and the dates in force, with the
business license application.
(1995 Code, § 7-5005) (Ord. passed 2-19-1985)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
      
132.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Misdemeanors under state law
   
130.02   Loitering or loafing
   
130.03   Disturbance of the peace; disorderly conduct
   
130.04   Trespass
   
130.05   Prostitution
   
130.06   Peeping Tom
   
130.07   Interference with police or health officials
   
130.08   Firearms and air rifles
   
130.09   Destruction, interference or theft of coaxial cable television
property or service
   
130.10   Public intoxication
   
130.11   Wearing of certain attire
   130.12   Face masks in retail and foodservice establishments
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 MISDEMEANORS UNDER STATE LAW.
   Any act, the commission of which constitutes a misdemeanor under the laws of
the state, is prohibited within the town, and any prohibited act, if committed
within the town, shall constitute a violation of this code; provided, however,
that the penalty for the offense committed shall not exceed the penalty
prescribed in §
10.99.
(1995 Code, § 9-1001) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Crimes and offenses, see S.C. Code Title 16
§ 130.02 LOITERING OR LOAFING.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, LOITERING shall mean remaining
idle in essentially one location and shall include the concepts of spending
time idly, loafing or walking around aimlessly.
   (B)   Certain types of loitering prohibited. No person shall loiter in a
public place in such a manner as to:
      (1)   Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the
comfort and repose of any person;
      (2)   Create or cause to be created a danger of the breach of the peace;
      (3)   Obstruct or hinder the free passage of vehicles or pedestrians;
      (4)   Obstruct or interfere with any person lawfully in any public place;
      (5)   Engage in panhandling;
      (6)   Engage in gambling;
      (7)   Engage in prostitution;
      (8)   Solicit or engage in any business, trade or commercial transaction
unless specifically authorized or licensed to do so;
      (9)   Unlawfully use or possess an unlawful drug; or
      (10)   Unlawfully use or possess alcoholic beverages, beer or wine.
   (C)   Request to leave. Whenever the presence of any person in any public
place is causing or is likely to cause any of the conditions enumerated in
division (B) of this section, any public safety officer may order that person
to leave that place. Any person who shall refuse to leave after being ordered
to do so by a public safety officer shall be guilty of a violation of this
section. Nothing in this section shall be construed or enforced in such a
manner as to restrict freedom of speech, religion or association.
   (D)   Effective date. The effective date of this section is September 16,
1986.
(1995 Code, § 9-1002) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISTURBANCE OF THE PEACE; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to do any of the
following:
   (A)   To create, bring about, or assist in creating or bringing about, any
breach of the peace;
   (B)   To engage in any conduct or perform any act creating a breach of the
peace;
   (C)   To engage in any conduct tending to incite or bring about fighting,
rioting, assaults or breaches of the peace;
   (D)   To engage in any conduct which interferes with, impedes or stops the
orderly and free movement of pedestrian and automotive traffic upon and along
the public sidewalks, streets and ways of the town;
   (E)   To engage in any conduct or perform any act upon the public streets,
sidewalks or public ways of the town which creates a disturbance or loud noise;
   (F)   To intentionally engage in any conduct or perform any act of the
public streets, sidewalks or public ways of the town which endangers any
person, or the property of the town which endangers any person, or the property
of any person, firm or corporation in the town;
   (G)   To engage in any conduct which threatens or disturbs the peace and
tranquility of the community or which interferes with or obstructs any peace
officer within the town in carrying out his or her duties; or
   (H)   To refuse to obey or follow the proper orders or directions of any
peace officer issued in the performance of his or her duties in preserving the
peace and tranquility of the town and in preserving the orderly and free
movement of pedestrian and automotive traffic upon and along the public
streets, sidewalks and ways of the town, or in the enforcement of this code or
other regulations of the town of the laws of this state.
(1995 Code, § 9-1003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 TRESPASS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits
unlawfully, willfully or maliciously to cut, shoot, maim or otherwise injure or
damage any animal, any vehicle or any other article of personal property, or
any chattel belonging to another; or to unlawfully, willfully or maliciously
cut, mutilate, deface or otherwise injure or damage real estate belonging to
another, including any tree, fence, outhouse, structure or fixture growing or
located upon or attached to the real property; or to commit any act of trespass
upon real estate belonging to another or in the possession of another.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
enter upon the premises of another after notice, either in written or oral
form, from the owner of the premises, or from the agent or servant of the owner
thereof, or from the person in actual possession, management and/or control of
the premises, prohibiting or forbidding the entry, and each entry after the
notice shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remain upon or refuse to quit,
vacate or leave the premises of another after notice, either in written or oral
form, from the owner of the premises, or from the agent or servant of the
owner, or the person in actual possession, management and/or control thereof,
requesting the person to leave or quit the premises; and each refusal to quit,
or leave the premises upon each separate notice or request, shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 9-1004) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the town limits to
engage in prostitution or to aid or abet prostitution or to procure or solicit
for the purpose of prostitution or to keep or set up a house of ill fame,
brothel or bawdy house, or to receive any person into any structure or
building, or to permit any person to remain for the purpose of lewdness,
assignation or prostitution in any vehicle, conveyance, place, structure or
building or to lease or rent, or contract to lease or rent any vehicle,
conveyance, place, structure or building or part thereof, knowing or with good
reason to know that it is intended to be used for any of the purposes herein
prohibited.
(1995 Code, § 9-1005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 PEEPING TOM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, within the town
limits, to be an eavesdropper or a “Peeping Tom” on or about the premises of
another, or to go about or upon the premises of another for the purpose of
becoming an eavesdropper or a Peeping Tom. The term PEEPING TOM as used in this
section shall be defined to be one who peeps through windows or doors, or other
like places, on or about the premises of another, for the purpose of spying
upon or invading the privacy of the person or persons spied upon, and the doing
of any other acts of a similar nature, tending to invade the privacy of the
person or persons.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent duly constituted officers of the
law from performing their official duties in ferreting out offenders or
suspected offenders against the law, or secretly watching a person suspected of
violating the laws of the state of the town, for the purpose of apprehending
the suspected violator; provided, however, the provisions of this section shall
not be construed as giving the officers any additional rights and powers upon
private property, but shall be construed as preserving only the powers as they
had before passage of this section.
(1995 Code, § 9-1006)
§ 130.07 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE OR HEALTH OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to interfere with or in
any way hinder or obstruct any police officer or health officer of the town
while the officer is engaged in the performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons of the town to strike,
assault, fight or resist any police officer or health officer of the town when
the officer is engaged in the performance of his or her duties.
(1995 Code, § 9-1007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 FIREARMS AND AIR RIFLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or fire or shoot any air
rifle, air gun or air pistol, BB gun or BB pistol or any firearms of any kind
or nature in, upon or across any street, sidewalk or public way or in any
public place in the town.
(1995 Code, § 9-1008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 DESTRUCTION, INTERFERENCE OR THEFT OF COAXIAL CABLE TELEVISION
PROPERTY OR SERVICE.
   Any person who shall do any of the following shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to the provisions of §
130.99:
   (A)   Willfully or maliciously damage or destroy any of the posts, wires,
towers or other fixtures or materials used or owned by any coaxial cable
television company;
   (B)   Willfully or maliciously interfere with any structure or materials
used or owned by any coaxial cable television company; or
   (C)   In any way receive, transmit, acquire, appropriate or otherwise make
use of signal or any portion thereof belonging to or transmitted by a coaxial
cable television company without that company’s permission.
(1995 Code, § 9-1009) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any public building, public street,
sidewalk, parking area, public park or any other public place within the town
limits to be found in an intoxicated condition, except in his or her own
premises. If so found in this condition, the subject shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and subject to the provisions of §
130.99.
(1995 Code, § 9-1010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 WEARING OF CERTAIN ATTIRE.
   (A)   Definitions. Unless the context shall clearly indicate some other
meaning, the terms defined in this section shall, for purposes of this section,
have the meanings herein specified. Definitions shall be equally applicable to
both the singular and the plural forms of any of the terms herein defined.
      ADULT. A person, who has reached full legal age as defined by the laws of
the State of South Carolina.
      CREST OF THE ILIUM. The upper portion of the dorsal, upper and largest
area of the three bones composing either lateral half of the pelvis that is
broad and expanded above the greater sciatic notch.
      CUSTODIAL PARENT. A person as defined by the laws of the State of South
Carolina.
      GUARDIAN. A person as defined by the laws of the State of South Carolina.
      INTIMATE CLOTHING. Men and women's underwear, men and women's underpants,
panties, boxers, slips, girdles, athletic supporters, thongs or other similar
garments ordinarily worn beneath pants.
      MINOR. A person, who has not reached full legal age as defined by the
laws of the State of South Carolina.
      PANTS. Any garment ordinarily worn to cover a person's lower body and
legs. This shall include, but not be limited to, trousers, long pants, short
pants, cutoffs, shorts or skirts.
      PERSON. An individual or entity possessing legal rights and duties.
      PUBLIC PLACE. An area to which the public is invited or to which the
public is admitted or has access, including, but not limited to, public and
private educational facilities, including, but not limited to, schools,
administration buildings and other school owned or controlled property,
licensed child care and adult day care facilities, healthcare facilities,
hospitals, doctor offices, hotel and motel lobbies, public transportation
facilities, restaurants, retail food production and marketing establishments,
retail service establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, theaters,
galleries, libraries, museums, convention facilities, conference centers,
exhibition halls, cultural arts centers, stadiums, ball parks, government
controlled parks or recreation areas, other places of meeting or assembly,
inclusive of lobbies and audience seating areas, roadways, pathways, sidewalks,
yards of residential, commercial and governmental buildings or facilities when
visible from roadways, common areas in apartment buildings, condominiums,
trailer parks, mobile home parks, camp grounds, retirement facilities, nursing
homes, and other multiple residential facilities, restrooms, lobbies, reception
areas, hallways, and other common use areas, rooms, chambers and private clubs
when being used for a function to which the general public is invited. A
private residence is not a public place, unless it is used as a child care,
adult daycare, or healthcare facility.
   (B)   Prohibition of certain attire; duties of parents and guardians.
      (1)   It shall be prohibited for any person to appear in a public place
wearing his or her pants more than three inches below his or her hips (crest of
the ilium) and thereby exposing his or her skin or intimate clothing.
      (2)   It shall be prohibited for any custodial parent or guardian to
willfully allow their minor to appear in a public place wearing his or her
pants more than three inches below his or her hips (crest of the ilium) and
thereby exposing his or her skin or intimate clothing.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   This section shall be enforced by the Town's Public Safety
Department and by the Town Manager and his or her authorized designees within
the incorporated areas of the town.
      (2)   Any citizen of Winnsboro, who desires to register a complaint under
this section, may initiate enforcement with the Town's Public Safety
Department.
      (3)   Not withstanding any other provision of this section, only the Town
Manager, his or her authorized designees, or the Public Safety Department may
bring legal action against any person(s) to enforce the provisions of this
section.
   (D)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Any person who violates a provision of division (B) of this section
shall be guilty of a civil infraction and subject to a fine of $25. Any civil
infraction issued to a minor under this chapter shall be enforced in the
Fairfield County Family Court, pursuant to S.C. Code § 63-5-510, as amended.
All civil infractions issued to adults under this section, where the infraction
occurred within the incorporated area of Winnsboro, shall be enforced in
Winnsboro's Municipal Court.
      (2)   Beginning July 30, 2014 and ending September 30, 2014, any person
found to be in violation of division (B) of this section, shall be issued a
civil infraction warning. The fine, as set forth in division (D)(1) of this
section, shall be waived during this time. Beginning October 1,2014, the fine
shall be re-instituted for violations of division (B) of this section.
      (3)   Violation of this section is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance, which may be abated by the town by restraining order, preliminary and
permanent injunction or other means provided for by law, and the town may take
action to recover all attorney fees and costs of the nuisance abatement.
      (4)   A violation of this section is a singular event violation. The
passage of a 24-hour period without correction will not be deemed a continuing
violation provided, however, a person may be ticketed if he or she is seen the
next day attired in a manner which violates this section.
      (5)   All civil infractions, issued by an agent of the town within the
incorporated areas of the town, shall be issued on a Town Summons Ticket.
Further, all civil infraction fines collected as a result of a civil infraction
written by the town within the incorporated areas of the town shall go to the
general fund of the town.
(Ord. 080514, passed 8-5-2014)
§ 130.12 FACE MASKS IN RETAIL AND FOODSERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used herein, the terms below shall have the following
meanings.
      ESTABLISHMENT. A foodservice establishment or retail establishment.
      FACE COVERING. A uniform piece of cloth, fabric, or other material that
securely covers a person's nose and mouth and remains affixed in place without
the use of one's hands. FACE COVERINGS include, but are not limited to,
bandanas, medical masks, cloth masks, scarves, and gaiters, provided that they
are worn such that they securely cover the person's nose and mouth.
      FOODSERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment within the town that sells
prepared food on a dine-in, delivery, carry-out, or drive-through basis.
      RESPONSIBLE PERSON. With respect to an establishment, means any
individual associated with the establishment who has the authority and ability
to enforce the requirements of the section within the establishment, such as an
owner, manager, or supervisor. RESPONSIBLE PERSON may also include an employee
or other designee that is present at the establishment but does not have the
title of manager or supervisor, but who has the temporary or designated
authority and ability to ensure that the requirements of this section are met
while the establishment is open to the public.
      RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any retail business, organization, establishment,
or facility open to the public within the town, including without limitation:
         (a)   Grocery stores, convenience stores, and any other establishment
engaged in the retail sale of non-prepared food;
         (b)   Commercial stores engaged in the retail sale of goods or
services to the public including without limitation sporting goods stores;
furniture and home-furnishings stores; clothing, shoe, and clothing-accessory
stores; jewelry, luggage, and leather goods stores; department stores; hardware
and home-improvement stores; book, craft, and music stores; florists and flower
stores; and all other stores that sell supplies for household consumption or
use;
         (c)   Pharmacies and other stores that sell medications or medical
supplies;
         (d)   Alcoholic beverage stores; and
         (e)   Laundromats.
   (B)   Use of face coverings.
      (1)   All customers are required to wear face coverings while inside the
enclosed area of any retail establishment or foodservice establishment;
      (2)   All retail establishments shall require staff to wear, and those
staff shall wear, face coverings while working in areas open to the general
public and areas in which interactions with other staff are likely in which
social distancing of at least six feet cannot be observed; and
      (3)   All foodservice establishments shall require staff who interact
with customers (including, without limitation, delivery personnel) to wear, and
those staff shall wear, face coverings while working.
   (C)   Exemptions. Face coverings shall not be required:
      (1)   In outdoor or unenclosed areas appurtenant to retail establishments
or foodservice establishments in which social distancing of at least six feet
is possible and observed;
      (2)   For people whose religious beliefs prevent them from wearing a face
covering;
      (3)   For those who cannot wear a face covering due to a medical or
behavioral condition;
      (4)   For children under ten years old, provided that adults accompanying
children age two through nine shall use reasonable efforts to cause those
children to wear face coverings while inside the enclosed area of any retail
establishment or foodservice establishment;
      (5)   For patrons of foodservice establishments while they are dining;
      (6)   In private, individual offices;
      (7)   When complying with directions of law enforcement officers;
      (8)   In settings where it is not practical or feasible to wear a face
covering, including when obtaining or rendering goods or services such as the
receipt of dental services or while swimming;
      (9)   While exclusively with members of a family or the same household,
and no person other than such family or household is within the same enclosed
area.
   (D)   Individual violations: civil infraction. Any person violating the
provisions of this section by failing to wear a face covering when required
shall be guilty of a civil infraction, punishable by a penalty of $25. Each day
of a continuing violation of this section shall be considered a separate and
distinct offense.
   (E)   Responsible person violations:
      (1)   Civil infraction. Any responsible person violating the provisions
of this section by failing to require employees of the establishment to wear a
face covering when required shall be guilty of a civil infraction, punishable
by a penalty of $25. Each day of a continuing violation of this section shall
be considered a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   Revocation of permits and licenses. In addition to the penalties
established by division (E) hereof, repeated violations of this section by a
responsible person by failing to require employees of the establishment to wear
a face covering may, subject to all procedural protections set forth in the
city code, result in the suspension or revocation of any occupancy permit or
business license issued to business where the repeated violations occurred.
      (3)   Public nuisance. In addition to the penalties established by
division (E) hereof, repeated violations of this section by a responsible
person by failing to require employees of the establishment to wear a face
covering are additionally hereby declared to be a public nuisance, which may be
abated by the city by restraining order, preliminary and permanent injunction,
or other means provided for by the laws of this state. The foregoing
notwithstanding, every effort shall be made to bring establishments into
voluntary compliance with the terms of this section prior to the commencement
of any enforcement action.
   (F)   Duties of establishments and responsible persons. Establishments and
responsible persons shall have a duty to enforce the provisions of this section
only against employees of the establishment. Without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, no establishment or responsible person shall have any duty to
require that customers, visitors, or other members of the general public wear
face coverings.
(Ord. 010521, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person upon conviction of a violation of §
130.09 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or by imprisonment for
not more than one year, or both, in the discretion of the court.
(1995 Code, § 9-1009)
   (C)   Any person upon conviction of a violation of §
130.10 shall be fined not more than $200, or be imprisoned for not more than 30
days.
(1995 Code, § 9-1010)
CHAPTER 131: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
Section
   
131.01   Drug paraphernalia regulations; effect
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Possession of drug paraphernalia
   
131.04   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia
   
131.05   Delivery of drug paraphernalia to a minor
   
131.06   Advertisement of drug paraphernalia
   
131.07   Civil forfeiture
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA REGULATIONS; EFFECT.
   The town drug paraphernalia ordinance and sections thereof will coincide
with existing federal laws and the State Controlled Substance Act.
(1995 Code, § 9-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Controlled substances, see S.C. Code Title 44, Ch. 53
   Sale, manufacture or possession of paraphernalia, see S.C. Code § 44-53-391
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, purchasing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation
of this Act (meaning the Controlled Substance Act of this state). It includes
but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
         (b)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substances;
         (c)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
         (d)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances;
         (e)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (f)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances;
         (g)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs, stems and seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or
refining marijuana;
         (h)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (i)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
         (j)   Containers or other objects used, intended for use or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
         (k)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended
for use or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances
into the human body; and
         (l)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish oil into the
human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctual metal
bowls;
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            4.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            5.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            7.   Chamber pipes;
            8.   Carburetor pipes;
            9.   Electric pipes;
            10.   Air-driven pipes;
            11.   Chillums;
            12.   Bongs; and
            13.   Ice pipes or chillers.
   (B)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      (1)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      (2)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
      (3)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this chapter;
      (4)   The proximity of the object to the controlled substances;
      (5)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
      (6)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver to persons whom he or she knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this chapter; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of this
object, as to a direct violation of this chapter should not present a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      (7)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      (8)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      (9)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      (10)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      (11)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      (12)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (13)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object(s) in
the community; and
      (14)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(1995 Code, § 9-2002)
§ 131.03 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 9-2003) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 MANUFACTURE OR DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to deliver or possess with intent to deliver,
drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should
know, that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, test analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 9-2004) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA TO A MINOR.
   Any person 18 years of age or over who violates §
131.04 by delivering drug paraphernalia to a person under the age of 18 years
of age who is at least three years his or her junior is guilty of a special
offense and shall be subject to the provisions of §
131.99.
(1995 Code, § 9-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 ADVERTISEMENT OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill
or other publication any advertisement, knowing or under circumstances where
one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or
in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug
paraphernalia.
(1995 Code, § 9-2006) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 CIVIL FORFEITURE.
   (A)   Any of the items of personal property listed in this chapter and which
are legally confiscated by the town will be forfeited. The property will be
secured by the Public Safety Department for a period of ten days and at any
time thereafter the town will either destroy the property or advertise notice
of public sale of the property and sell any thereof as may be used for
legitimate purpose.
   (B)   Property subject to be forfeited under this chapter may be seized by
the Public Safety Department upon process issued by the Municipal Judge.
Seizure without process may be made if seizure is incident to arrest or a
search under a search warrant.
(1995 Code, § 9-2007)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
131.01,
131.03,
131.04 and
131.06 is guilty of violating an ordinance of the town and upon conviction may
be imprisoned for not more than 30 days, fined not more than $200, or both.
(1995 Code, §§ 9-2003, 9-2004, 9-2006)
   (C)   Any person 18 years of age or over who violates §
131.05 is guilty of a special offense and upon conviction may be imprisoned for
not more than 30 days, fined not more than $200, or both.
(1995 Code, § 9-2005)
CHAPTER 132: FIREWORKS
Section
   
132.01   Limitations of state law to apply
   
132.02   License required; storage and display regulated
   
132.03   Discharge of fireworks within town prohibited
   
132.04   Impermissible fireworks are contraband
   
132.05   Public displays; other exceptions
§ 132.01 LIMITATIONS OF STATE LAW TO APPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to possess, sell,
offer for sale, store, transport or use within the limits of the town, any
fireworks other than the permissible fireworks as defined by state law.
(1995 Code, § 7-3001) (Ord. passed 12-12-1961) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Permissible fireworks enumerated, see S.C. Code § 40-56-20(3)
§ 132.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; STORAGE AND DISPLAY REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, offer for
sale, store or transport within the town any fireworks without having first
secured the permit or license required by the state laws, and it shall be
unlawful to keep or store for sale, in a place of business where paint, oils,
varnishes, turpentine or gasoline or other inflammable substances are kept in
unbroken containers, any fireworks unless they are kept or stored in a separate
and distinct section or department of the store or place of business; and no
retailer of fireworks within the town shall expose them where the sun shines
through glass on the displayed merchandise, except when the display fireworks
are in the original packages. Fireworks kept for sale on front counters must
remain in the original packages except where an attendant is on constant duty
at all times at counter or counters where they are displayed, but all fireworks
in open stock may be kept in show cases or counters out of the reach of the
public without an attendant on constant duty. Wherever fireworks are displayed,
a sign or signs reading “Fireworks for Sale – No Smoking Allowed” shall be
erected or displayed in that section of the store or place of business set
aside for the sale of fireworks.
(1995 Code, § 7-3002) (Ord. passed 12-12-1961) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS WITHIN TOWN PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to discharge, fire or
explode, or cause to be fired, discharged or exploded within the town limits
any fireworks, under the state laws.
(1995 Code, § 7-3003) (Ord. passed 12-12-1961) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 IMPERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS ARE CONTRABAND.
   All fireworks other than those classified as permissible fireworks under the
state laws are hereby declared to be contraband and may be seized and destroyed
by the police officers of the town.
(1995 Code, § 7-3004) (Ord. passed 12-12-1961)
§ 132.05 PUBLIC DISPLAYS; OTHER EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to toy cap pistols or to
paper caps for use therein when these items contain less than 0.25 grains of
explosive compounds, nor shall it apply to other toys using paper caps; and it
shall not apply to the shipping, sale, possession and use of fireworks for
public displays where these have been duly authorized and approved by the
governing authorities of the town.
(1995 Code, § 7-3005) (Ord. passed 12-12-1961)
Statutory reference:
   Fireworks, generally, see S.C. Code §§ 40-56-1 et seq. and 23-35-45 et seq.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATION AND CODE ENFORCEMENT
      
151.   HISTORIC PROPERTY
      
152.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
153.   TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS
      
154.   PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATION AND CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
Adoption of Codes
   
150.001   International Building Codes adopted
   
150.002   Applicability
   
150.003   Department of Building Safety established
   
150.004   Existing situations unaffected
Building
   
150.015   Fire districts
   
150.016   Building Code adopted; purpose
   
150.017   Definitions; fee schedule
Electrical
   
150.030   Electrical Code adopted; purpose
   
150.031   Administration, enforcement of provisions
   
150.032   Applicability of provisions to homeowners
   
150.033   Permits
   
150.034   Permit fees
   
150.035   Inspections
Plumbing
   
150.050   Plumbing Code adopted; purpose
   
150.051   Additions, insertions, deletions and changes
Gas
   
150.065   Gas Code adopted; purpose
   
150.066   Administration, enforcement of provisions
   
150.067   Scope, effect of provisions
   
150.068   Applicability of provisions to homeowners
   
150.069   Permits
   
150.070   Permit fees
   
150.071   Inspections
Housing
   
150.085   Housing Code adopted; purpose
   
150.086   Administration, enforcement of provisions
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 150.001 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted Chapter One of the Building Codes as
promulgated by the South Carolina Building Codes Council, regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition
of such structures in the Town of Winnsboro providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor.
   (B)   The following climatological and geographical sections of each code
are hereby revised as allowed by law.
      (1)   International Building Code 2018 Edition;
      (2)   International Residential Code 2018 Edition;
      (3)   International Mechanical Code 2018 Edition;
      (4)   International Fuel Gas Code 2018 Edition;
      (5)   International Electrical Code 2018 Edition; and
      (6)   International Fire Code 2018 Edition.
(Ord. 06-17-03C, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06162020C, passed 6-16-2020)
§ 150.002 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all areas within the town, excluding any
parcels of land owned by the state or the federal government and any buildings
or structures located thereon.
(Ord. 06-17-03C, passed 6-17-2003)
§ 150.003 DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING SAFETY ESTABLISHED.
   The Department of Building Safety is hereby established and the official in
charge thereof shall be known as the Building Official.
(Ord. 06-17-03C, passed 6-17-2003)
§ 150.004 EXISTING SITUATIONS UNAFFECTED.
   Nothing in this subchapter or in the codes hereby adopted shall be construed
to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights acquired,
liability incurred or any cause or course of action acquired or existing, under
any act or ordinance hereby repealed; nor shall any just or legal right or
remedy of any character be lost, unpaid or affected by this subchapter.
(Ord. 06-17-03C, passed 6-17-2003)
BUILDING
§ 150.015 FIRE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following area within the town is hereby declared to be the first
fire district: all that portion of the town bounded on the north by Fairfield
Street, a line running generally east and west coincident with the centerline
of Fairfield Street on the east a line running generally north and south
coincident with the centerline of Zion Street on the south a line running
generally east and west coincident with the centerline of Palmer Street and on
the west a line running generally north and south coincident with the
centerline of Vanderhorst Street.
   (B)   All the remaining portions of the town not included in the first fire
district as set forth in division (A) above are hereby declared to be and
constitute the second fire district of the town.
(1995 Code, § 5-1001) (Ord. passed 10-28-1958)
§ 150.016 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the construction,
alteration, use, demolition and removal of buildings or other structures, or
any appurtenances connected or attached thereto, there is hereby adopted the
Building Code adopted in §
150.001, a copy of which has been and is now filed in the office of the
Building Inspector, and which is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference
as fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions thereof shall be
controlling as to all subjects therein contained, within the corporate limits,
except that in the event that any of the provisions are in conflict with other
provisions of this code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations, the
provisions of this code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations shall
prevail and be controlling.
(1995 Code, § 5-1002)
§ 150.017 DEFINITIONS; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   In interpretation of the Building Code the following definitions shall
apply.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Inspector.
      DEPARTMENT OF LAW. The Town Attorney.
      TOWN.  The Town of Winnsboro.
   (B)   Rates, charges and fees for issuance of building permits and other
permits required by the town for construction, alteration, removal or
improvement of buildings and structures within the town and as heretofore
required by the town under the provisions of the Building Code shall be as
follows:
Schedule of Permit Fees
(Permit good for one year from date of issue)
Schedule of Permit Fees
(Permit good for one year from date of issue)
(1) Permit fees.            Schedule Fee
Total valuation $100 and $10.00 base fee up to $1,000 valuation. Random
less                     inspections may be conducted on all construction
                         project
$1,001 to $2,000         $4.00 per thousand or fraction thereof
                         $8.00 for the first $2,000 plus $3.00 for each
$2,001 to $15,000        additional thousand or fraction thereof, to and
                         including $15,000
                         $47.00 for the first $15,000 plus $2.25 for each
$15,001 to $50,000       additional thousand or fraction thereof, to and
                         including $50,000
                         $124.75 for the first $50,000 plus $2.00 for each
$50,001 to $100,000      additional thousand or fraction thereof, to and
                         including $100,000
                         $224.75 for the first $100,000 plus $1.00 for each
$100,000 to $500,000     additional thousand or fraction thereof, to and
                         including $500,000
$500,000 and up          $624.75 for the first $500,000 plus $0.50 for each
                         additional thousand or fraction thereof
(2)   Moving of building or structure. For the moving of any building or
structure, the fee shall be $50. Trailer fee shall be $25.
(3)   Demolition of building or structure. For the demolition of any
building or structure, the fee shall be $25.
(4)   Double fee payment.  Where work for which a permit is required by
this code is started or proceeded with prior to obtaining the permit, the
fees herein specified shall be doubled but the payment of the double fee
shall not relieve any persons from fully complying with the requirements of
this code in the execution of the work nor from any other penalties
prescribed herein.
(5)   Plan-checking fees. When the valuation of the proposed construction
exceeds $1,000 and a plan is required to be submitted, a plan-checking fee
shall be paid to the building official at the time of submitting plans and
specifications for checking. The plan-checking fee shall be equal to one-
half of the building permit fee.
 
(1995 Code, § 5-1003) (Ord. passed 10-20-1970; Ord. passed 2-19-1974)
ELECTRICAL
§ 150.030 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED; PURPOSE.
   The latest edition of the National Electrical Code, as adopted in §
150.001, is hereby adopted as the minimum standard for the installation of all
electrical wiring, devices and equipment in the town, except as otherwise
specifically provided in this subchapter, and is hereby made a part of this
subchapter as fully and to the same extent as if copied herein in full. A copy
of the Code is on file in the office of the Electric Utility Department. In the
event of any conflict between the provisions of the Electrical Code and the
provisions of this code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations, the
provisions of this code shall prevail and be controlling.
(1995 Code, § 5-1011)
§ 150.031 ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Building Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 5-1012)
§ 150.032 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS TO HOMEOWNERS.
   Nothing contained within this subchapter shall prevent any homeowner from
installing or maintaining electrical wiring within his or her own property
boundaries; provided the electrical work is done by himself or herself and is
used exclusively by him or her or his or her family. This privilege does not
convey the right to violate any of the provisions of this subchapter, neither
is it to be construed as exempting any property owner from obtaining a permit
and having the work inspected nor from paying the required fees therefor.
(1995 Code, § 5-1013)
§ 150.033 PERMITS.
   Before any electrical wiring, devices or equipment are installed, repaired
or altered in any building or structure within the town, the person making the
installation, repair or alteration shall obtain a permit therefor from the
Building Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 5-1014)
§ 150.034 PERMIT FEES.
   Before any permit for electrical work shall be issued under the provisions
of this subchapter, the applicant therefor shall pay the permit fees as shall
be determined by Council from time to time.
(1995 Code, § 5-1015)
§ 150.035 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person controlling any electrical wiring in or
of houses or buildings within the town to allow any electrical current to be
turned on or consumed in any building without having first had an inspection
made.
(1995 Code, § 5-1016) Penalty, see §
10.99
PLUMBING
§ 150.050 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED; PURPOSE.
   The International Plumbing Code as adopted in §
150.001 is hereby adopted as the Code of the town relating to the installation
of all plumbing, including the pipes for distributing the water supply, the
fixtures for using water and the drainage pipe for removing waste water and the
sewage, together with fittings and appurtenances of various kinds, all within
or adjacent to the buildings within the town or where connected to the town’s
water or sewerage system, and the whole thereof, except the portions as are
hereafter deleted, altered or amended, is incorporated herein as fully as if
set out at length, and all plumbers shall be required to make installations in
conformity with the Code and the regulations contained therein, a copy of which
Code is on file in the office of the Building Inspector. In the event of any
conflict with the provisions of the Plumbing Code and the provisions of this
code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations, the provisions of this
code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations shall prevail and be
controlling.
(1995 Code, § 5-1031)
§ 150.051 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, DELETIONS AND CHANGES.
   In interpretation of the Plumbing Code the following definitions shall
apply.
   ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY, LOCAL GOVERNING BODY. The Council.
   DEPARTMENT OF LAW. The Town Attorney.
   PLUMBING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT. The Building Inspector.
   PLUMBING OFFICIAL. The Building Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 5-1032)
GAS
§ 150.065 GAS CODE ADOPTED; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby adopted by and for the town the 2006 International Fuel Gas
Code as adopted in §
150.001, and which is referred to, incorporated herein and made a part hereof
for all purposes, a copy of which Code is on file in the office of the Building
Inspector. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the 2006
International Fuel Gas Code adopted by this section and any provision of this
code, state law or ordinance, rule or regulation, the provisions of this code,
state law or ordinance, rule or regulation shall prevail and be controlling.
(1995 Code, § 5-1041)
§ 150.066 ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Building Inspector and/or Gas Department.
(1995 Code, § 5-1042)
§ 150.067 SCOPE, EFFECT OF PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any party owning, operating, controlling or installing any
gas piping of gas appliances from damages to anyone injured thereby, nor shall
the town be held as assuming any liability by reason of inspection authorized
herein, or certificate issued.
(1995 Code, § 5-1043)
§ 150.068 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS TO HOMEOWNERS.
   Nothing contained within this subchapter shall prevent any homeowner from
installing or maintaining gas piping or gas appliances within his or her own
property boundaries; provided the gas work is done by himself or herself and is
used exclusively by him or her or his or her family. The privilege shall not
convey the right to violate any of the provisions of this subchapter, neither
shall it be construed as exempting any property owner from obtaining a permit
and having the work inspected nor from paying the required fees therefor.
(1995 Code, § 5-1044)
§ 150.069 PERMITS.
   Before any gas piping or gas appliances are installed, repaired or altered
in any building or structure within the town, the person making the
installation, repair or alteration shall obtain a permit therefor from the
Building Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 5-1045)
§ 150.070 PERMIT FEES.
   Before any permit for gas fitting work shall be issued under the provisions
of this subchapter, the applicant therefor shall pay the permit fees as shall
be determined by the Council.
(1995 Code, § 5-1046)
§ 150.071 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person controlling any gas piping or gas
appliances in or of houses or buildings within the town to allow any gas to be
turned on or consumed in any building without first having had an inspection
thereof made and a certificate of approval thereof being issued.
(1995 Code, § 5-1047) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see S.C. Code §§ 5-7-280, 6-9-10 and 6-9-60
HOUSING
§ 150.085 HOUSING CODE ADOPTED; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby adopted by and for the town, the Standard Housing Code, 2006
edition, with latest amendments which code is published in book form and
recommended by the Building Code Congress International, Inc., and which is
referred to, incorporated herein, and made a part hereof for all purposes, a
copy of which code is on file in the office of the Building Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 5-1061)
§ 150.086 ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Building Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 5-1062)
CHAPTER 151: HISTORIC PROPERTY
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Architectural Review Board established
   
151.04   Powers and duties
   
151.05   Historic property inventory
   
151.06   Designation of historic properties
   
151.07   Jurisdiction of the Board of Architectural Review
   
151.08   Nominations to the National Register of Historic Places
   
151.09   Certificate of Appropriateness
   
151.10   Design guidelines
   
151.11   Appeals
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is:
      (1)   To protect, preserve and enhance the distinctive architectural and
cultural heritage of the town;
      (2)   To promote the educational, cultural, economic and general welfare
of the people of town;
      (3)   To foster civic pride;
      (4)   To encourage harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and
development of town;
      (5)   To strengthen the local economy; and
      (6)   To improve property values.
   (B)   It is the hope of the town that by encouraging a general harmony of
style, form, proportion and material between buildings of historic design and
those of contemporary design, the town's historic buildings and historic
districts will continue to be a distinctive aspect of the town and will serve
as visible reminders of the significant historical and cultural heritage of the
town and State of South Carolina.
   (C)   This chapter is part of the zoning ordinance of the town and is
enacted pursuant to the S.C. Code §§ 6-29-710 and § 6-29-870 et sequitur.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. A change in the external architectural features of any historic
structure or in the interior of any such structure if the interior feature is
specifically included in the historic designation; a change in the landscape
features of any historic site or place; or work having an adverse effect upon
designated archaeological resources.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. Document issued by the Board of
Architectural Review, following a prescribed review procedure, certifying that
the proposed actions by an applicant are found to be acceptable in terms of
design criteria relating to the individual property or the historic district.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area, designated by the Town Council, upon the
recommendation of the Board of Architectural Review and pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   HISTORIC PROPERTY. Any place (including an archaeological site or the
location of a significant historical event), building, structure, work of art,
fixture or similar object that has been individually designated by Town Council
or designated as a contributing property within a historic district.
   PUBLIC SPACE WITHIN A BUILDING. Spaces designed for use by the public, such
as auditoriums, court rooms, lobbies, entrance halls, etc. These spaces are
usually gathering places as opposed to corridors for public use.
   SUBSTANTIAL HARDSHIP. Hardship, caused by unusual and compelling
circumstances, based on one or more of the following:
      (1)   The property cannot reasonably be maintained in the manner dictated
by the chapter;
      (2)   There are no other reasonable means of saving the property from
deterioration, or collapse; or
      (3)   The property is owned by a nonprofit organization and it is not
feasible financially or physically to achieve the charitable purposes of the
organization while maintaining the property appropriately.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 151.03 ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Creation. To implement the provisions of this chapter, there is hereby
established a Board of Architectural Review, hereinafter referred to as the
Board, for the town consisting of five members. Members shall be appointed by
the Town Council upon the recommendation of the Board.
   (B)   Composition and qualifications.
      (1)   All members of the Board shall have a demonstrated interest in
historic preservation. If available in the community, the Board should have at
least one member who is qualified as:
         (a)   A historian, knowledgeable in local history;
         (b)   An architect or if an architect is not available to serve,
someone knowledgeable in building design and construction.
      (2)   No members shall hold any other municipal office.
      (3)   Members shall assume their duties at the first regular meeting
after their appointment. Members shall serve without compensation except for
reimbursement for authorized expenses attendant to the performance of their
duties.
   (C)   Terms of office.
      (1)   The term of office for each member shall be two years. Any person
who has served as a member of the Board for three consecutive terms shall not
be eligible for reappointment for at least one year. A term of less than one
year shall not be counted in determining eligibility for reappointment.
      (2)   Membership shall be identified by place numbers one through five.
Terms of office for members in the odd-numbered places shall expire in odd
numbered years; terms for even-numbered members expire in even numbered years,
provided, however, that each member shall serve until his successor is
appointed and installed.
   (D)   Removal. Any member of the Board may be removed by the Mayor upon
confirmation of the Town Council, for repeated failure to attend meetings of
the Board or for any other cause deemed sufficient by the Mayor.
   (E)   Appointment to fill a vacancy. If any place on the Board becomes
vacant due to resignation, removal, or for any reason, the Mayor shall appoint
a replacement within 60 days for the remainder of the unexpired term, subject
to confirmation by the Town Council.
   (F)   Conflicts of interest. Any member of the Board who has a personal or
financial interest, either directly or indirectly, in any property which is the
subject of, or affected by, a decision of the Board shall be disqualified from
participating in the decision of the Board concerning the property.
   (G)   Liability of members. Any member of the Board acting within powers
granted by the chapter shall be relieved from personal liability for any damage
and held harmless by the town. Any suit brought against any member of the Board
shall be defended by a legal representative furnished by the town until the
termination of the proceedings.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-21-2023)
Statutory Reference:
   Member requirements, see S.C. Code § 6-29-870(C).
§ 151.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The responsibility of the Board is to promote the purposes and objectives of
this chapter, to review and recommend to Town Council the designation of
individual historic properties and historic districts, and to review plans and
applications, as hereinafter provided, for all construction within historic
districts and construction or demolition pertaining to or affecting duly
designated historic properties. The Board shall have the power to approve,
approve with modifications or deny approval for such applications in accordance
with the prescribed procedures and guidelines.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 151.05 HISTORIC PROPERTY INVENTORY.
   The Board shall maintain a local inventory of buildings, structures,
objects, and sites more than fifty years old. These records shall be available
to the public.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 151.06 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Criteria for historic designation.
      (1)   The Board shall review the local inventory and make recommendations
for historic designation(s) to Town Council based on the following criteria.
      (2)   A property may be designated historic if it:
         (a)   Has significant inherent character, interest, or value as part
of the development or heritage of the community, state, or nation;
         (b)   Is the site of an event significant in history;
         (c)   Is associated with a person or persons who contributed
significantly to the culture and development of the community, state, or
nation;
         (d)   Exemplifies the cultural, political, economic, social, ethnic,
or historic heritage of the community, state, or nation;
         (e)   Individually, or as a collection of resources, embodies
distinguishing characteristics of a type, style, period, or specimen in
architecture or engineering;
         (f)   Is the work of a designer whose work has influenced
significantly the development of the community, state or nation;
         (g)   Contains elements of design, detail, materials, or craftsmanship
which represent a significant innovation;
         (h)   Is part of or related to a square or other distinctive element
of community planning;
         (i)   Represents an established and familiar visual feature of the
neighborhood or community; or
         (j)   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
pre-history or history.
   (B)   Owner notification. Owners of properties proposed to be designated
historic shall be notified in writing 30 days prior to consideration by City/
County Council. Owners may appear before the Town Council to voice approval or
opposition to such designation.
   (C)   Identification on town zoning map. All locally designated historic
properties and historic districts shall be clearly shown on the zoning map.
   (D)   Opposition to designation. Any property owner may object to the
decision by the Town Council to designate his property as historic by filing
suit against the town before the Courts of the State of South Carolina.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 151.07 JURISDICTION OF THE BOARD OF ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW.
   The jurisdiction of the Board, in general, is the town limits. The
jurisdiction of the Board for the recommendation of properties to be designated
historic is the town limits. The jurisdiction of the Board for the review of
proposed alteration to exteriors of buildings, new construction, and demolition
is the individual properties and areas that have been designated by the Town
Council as historic.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 151.08 NOMINATIONS TO THE NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES.
   The Board may conduct first review and evaluation of all proposed
nominations for the National Register of Historic Places for properties that
are within its jurisdiction, prior to consideration by the State Board of
Review. The Board may send their recommendations to the State Historic
Preservation Office for consideration at the meeting of the State Board of
Review. The Board shall not nominate properties directly to the National
Register; only the State Board of Review shall have this final review authority
unless expressly authorized by federal statute.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 151.09 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   A Certificate of Appropriateness is required before a building permit
can be issued for the demolition, new construction, exterior alteration,
modification or addition to a designated historic property. Any building permit
not issued in conformity with this chapter shall be considered void.
   (B)   Application for a Certificate of Appropriateness must be signed by the
owner or his authorized representative and the form must be signed by the
Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Board stating its approval, denial, or
approval with conditions and the reasons for the decision.
   (C)   Required procedure. An application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness shall be obtained from the Town Planning and Zoning Office, and
when completed, filed with the appropriate administrative official as
designated by the Board.
   (D)   Time limits. Applications for a Certificate of Appropriateness shall
be considered by the Board at its next regular meeting, provided they have been
filed at least seven calendar days before the regularly scheduled meeting of
Board. If the Board fails to take action upon any application within 45 days
after the complete application is received, the application shall be considered
approved, except in cases where the Board has postponed an application to
demolish a structure under the provisions contained in this chapter.
   (E)   Board action on application. The Board shall review the application,
using the design guidelines appearing in §
151.10 to make findings of fact to decide whether or not the applicant's plans
are appropriate. The decision of the Board, along with the reasons for each
decision, will be recorded in the minutes and will be available upon request as
a public reference for preservation procedures.
   (F)   Contents of application. The Board shall, in its rules of procedure,
require data as are reasonable and necessary to determine the nature of the
application. An application shall not be considered complete until all the
required data have been submitted.
   (G)   Notification of affected property owners. Prior to the issuance of an
approval or denial of a Certificate of Appropriateness, the Board shall inform
the owners of any property likely to be materially affected by the application,
and shall give the applicant and such owners an opportunity to be heard.
   (H)   Submission of a new application. If the Board determines that a
Certificate of Appropriateness should be denied, a new application affecting
the same property may be submitted only if substantial change is made in the
plans for the proposed work.
   (I)   Maintenance, repair, and interior projects. Nothing in this document
shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any
exterior architectural feature of structures designated as historic when that
repair does not involve a change in design, material, color, or outer
appearance of the structure. The Board shall not consider the interior
arrangements or alterations to the interior of a building unless the interior
of a public building or the public space of a private building is specifically
described and designated as historic. The Board may authorize a staff member to
approve minor projects involving repairs and ordinary maintenance that do not
alter design, materials, color or the outer appearance of a structure or
interior projects not subject to design review.
   (J)   Fines and penalties. The system of fines applied by the town for
violation of the building code will apply to violations of this chapter.
   (K)   Substantial hardship.
      (1)   In the event a Certificate of Appropriateness is denied, the
property owner may apply for an exemption based on the substantial hardship of
maintaining the property according to the design guidelines for historic
properties. Substantial hardship is to be considered by the Commission where
one or more of the following unusual and compelling circumstances exists:
         (a)   The property cannot reasonably be maintained in the manner
dictated by the chapter;
         (b)   There are no other reasonable means of saving the property from
deterioration, or collapse; or
         (c)   The property is owned by a nonprofit organization and it is not
feasible financially or physically to achieve the charitable purposes of the
organization while maintaining the property appropriately.
      (2)   The owner may be required to submit documents to show that he
cannot comply with the design guidelines and earn a reasonable rate of return
on his investment in the property. Information required may include:
         (a)   Costs of the proposed development with and without modification
needed to comply with the design guidelines as determined by the Board;
         (b)   Structural report and/or a feasibility report;
         (c)   Market value of the property in its present condition and after
completion of the proposed project;
         (d)   Cost of the property, date purchased, relationship, if any,
between seller and buyer, terms of financing;
         (e)   For the past two years, annual gross income from the property
with operating and maintenance expenses, depreciation, and annual cash flow
before and after debt service during that time; and
         (f)   Other information considered necessary by the Board to determine
whether or not the property may yield a reasonable return.
   (L)   Demolition. If the Board denies, or postpones for 180 days, a request
to demolish a historic building, the Board shall work closely with the owner to
find an appropriate use for the property, to help find a buyer or to obtain
funding for rehabilitation, including low interest loans or grants. The Board
shall inform the community concerning the threat to the building, its value as
part of the fabric of the community and, through publicity and contacts with
civic groups, seek to provide assistance in preserving the property.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 151.10 DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this chapter to ensure, insofar as
possible, that properties designated as historic shall be in harmony with the
architectural and historical character of the town. In granting a Certificate
of Appropriateness, the Board shall take into account the architectural and
historical significance of the structure under consideration and the exterior
form and appearance of any proposed additions or modifications to that
structure as well as the effect of such change or additions upon other
structures in the vicinity.
   (B)   The Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation.
      (1)   When considering an application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness for new construction, alteration, repair, or restoration, the
Commission shall use the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for
Rehabilitation as guidelines in making its decisions. In addition, the Board
may adopt more specific guidelines for local historic districts and local
historic buildings. These guidelines serve as the basis for determining the
approval, approval with modifications, or denial of an application.
      (2)   The Secretary's Standards for Rehabilitation are:
         (a)   A property will be used as it was historically or be given a new
use that requires minimal change to its distinctive materials, features,
spaces, and spatial relationships.
         (b)   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of distinctive materials or alteration of features,
spaces, and spatial relationships that characterize a property will be avoided.
         (c)   Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its
time, place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical
development, such as adding conjectural features or elements from other
buildings, will not be undertaken.
         (d)   Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance
in their own right will be retained and preserved.
         (e)   Distinctive materials, features, finishes, and construction
techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property will be
preserved.
         (f)   Deteriorated historic features will be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature will match the old in design, color,
texture, and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features will
be substantiated by documentary and physical evidence.
         (g)   Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be
undertaken using the gentlest means possible. Treatments that cause damage to
historic materials will not be used.
         (h)   Archeological resources will be protected and preserved in
place. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures will be
undertaken.
         (i)    New additions, exterior alterations, or related new
construction will not destroy historic materials, features, and spatial
relationships that characterize the property. The new work will be
differentiated from the old and will be compatible with the historic materials,
features, size, scale, and proportion, and massing to protect the integrity of
the property and its environment.
         (j)   New additions and adjacent or related new construction will be
undertaken in such a manner that, if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 151.11 APPEALS.
   Any person may appeal a decision of the Board to the Courts of South
Carolina pursuant to the S.C. Code § 6-29-900 et seq.
(Ord. 92, passed 11-21-2023)
CHAPTER 152: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Authority
   
152.03   Jurisdiction
   
152.04   Rules of language and interpretation
   
152.05   Definitions
Plan Required; Application; Compliance
   
152.20   Approved plan and grading permit required for land disturbance
   
152.21   Exemptions
   
152.22   Application for plan approval and permit
   
152.23   Approval or disapproval of application
   
152.24   Variances and exceptions
   
152.25   Appeals
   
152.26   Extension of time to complete work
   
152.27   Responsibility of applicant
   
152.28   Guidelines for preparation of erosion and sediment control plans
   
152.29   Contents of plan and application
   
152.30   Notification
   
152.31   Inspection
   
152.32   Relationship with other laws and regulations
   
152.33   Enforcement
   
152.34   Stormwater management
   
152.35   Discrepancies
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the general health, safety and welfare of the people of
the town, and to protect the natural assets and resources of the town for
posterity, this chapter is enacted to protect the lands and waters from the
effects of excessive soil erosion and sedimentation, to prevent siltation of
streams and lakes, to prevent clogging of drainage channels, and to prevent
damages to the property of adjacent landowners.
(1995 Code, § 5-1071) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authorities and powers conferred to local
governments by the General Assembly of South Carolina.
(1995 Code, § 5-1072) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands within the town
limits of the town.
(1995 Code, § 5-1073) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.04 RULES OF LANGUAGE AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not merely discretionary; the word
“may” is permissive.
   (B)   The particular shall control the general.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
   (D)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural
the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (E)   All public officials, bodies and agencies referred to herein are those
of this town, unless otherwise indicated.
(1995 Code, § 5-1074) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any building or erection of a structure or any preparation for
same.
   DEVELOPER.  Any person acting in his or her own behalf as a property owner,
who makes application for plan approval and a grading permit under the
provisions of this chapter.
   DRAINAGE. A general term applied to the removal of surface or subsurface
water from a given area either by gravity via natural means or by systems
constructed to so remove water, commonly applied herein to surface water.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The surface and subsurface system for removal of water from
the land, including both the natural elements of stream, marshes, swales and
ponds, whether of an intermittent or continuous nature; and the humanmade
elements such as improved open channels, culverts, retention facilities and
enclosed storm sewers.
   EMBANKMENT OF FILL. A deposit of soil, rock or other material placed by
humans.
   EROSION. The general process by which soil and rock fragments are detached
and moved by the action of wind, water, ice and gravity, either naturally or
induced.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN.  A plan which adequately describes
necessary land management practices and control measures, including a timetable
or schedule for their installation, which will effectively minimize soil
erosion and sedimentation; repaired and approved as provided herein for
application to a particular land area.
   GRADING. Any displacement of soil by stripping, excavating, filling,
stockpiling or any combination thereof; and shall include the land in its
excavated or filled state.
   GRADING PERMIT. A certificate issued to perform work pursuant to an approved
erosion and sediment control plan prepared under the provisions of this
chapter.
   LAND. Any ground, soil or earth, including marshes, swamps, drainageways and
areas not permanently covered by water.
   LAND DISTURBANCE. Any activity involving the clearing, grading,
transporting, filling and any other activity which causes the land to be
exposed to the danger of erosion.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
trust, estate, commission, board, utility, cooperative interstate body, public
or private corporation, public or private institution or other legal body.
   PROFESSIONAL SOIL CONSERVATIONIST. Successful completion of a four-year
course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor’s
degree with major study in soil conservation or a closely related natural
resource or agricultural education or agricultural field such as agronomy,
wildlife biology, agricultural engineering (since there is no board or other
authority to review the various curricula, it is suggested that the course of
study include 30 semester hours in natural resources or agricultural fields
including the equivalent of three semester hours in soils); and three years of
experience of erosion and sediment control practices. This experience should
have been obtained under the supervision of another PROFESSIONAL SOIL
CONSERVATIONIST.
   REGISTERED LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A person who is registered by this state
pursuant to S.C. Code Title 40, Chapter 28.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person who is registered in this state
pursuant to S.C. Code Title 40, Chapter 22.
   RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation on the land which reaches the
drainage system.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process which operates at or near the surface of the
ground, to deposit soil, debris and other materials either on other ground
surfaces or in water channels.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT BOARD. The Soil and Water Conservation
District Board for the town, as established by the state statute.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the
ground, including but not limited to tennis courts, swimming pools, fences and
buildings.
   VEGETATION. All plant growth, including trees, shrubs, grasses and mosses.
(1995 Code, § 5-1075) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
PLAN REQUIRED; APPLICATION; COMPLIANCE
§ 152.20 APPROVED PLAN AND GRADING PERMIT REQUIRED FOR LAND DISTURBANCE.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the surface of land in the town
shall not be disturbed or changed for any purposes whatsoever, but not
including those exemptions outlined in §
152.21, except in accordance with a plan for control of erosion and
sedimentation approved by and a grading permit issued by the town (indicating
approval) prior to any grading, construction or land disturbances of any
nature.
(1995 Code, § 5-1076) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.21 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Agricultural or silvicultural land management and cultural practices,
or to the construction of non-farm buildings and structures used in a farming
operation;
   (B)   Construction or land improvement of single-family residences or other
accessory buildings. A single-family residence property owner may make land
improvements on his or her single lot without an approved erosion and sediment
control plan and without obtaining a grading permit;
   (C)   Mining and mineral resource extraction operations conducted in
accordance with a valid mining permit issued by the Mining and Reclamation
Division of the State Land Resources Commission;
   (D)   Emergency repairs or maintenance of existing structures and facilities
which require ground to be broken. The responsible person shall notify the town
in writing within five working days of the emergency repairs and maintenance
actions;
   (E)   Construction or land improvement by a state or federal agency
conducted in accordance with a state or federal land management program;
   (F)   Construction of transmission lines for electricity, water, telephone,
gas, sanitary sewers and storm sewers and other utility construction which will
require disturbing the natural ground surface of less than one acre. The width
of the right-of-way shall be considered as the area to be disturbed; and
   (G)   Any site, not otherwise exempted, being one acre or less.
(1995 Code, § 5-1077) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.22 APPLICATION FOR PLAN APPROVAL AND PERMIT.
   (A)   The developer shall apply in writing to the town for a grading permit
to disturb or change land in the town limits. The application shall be
accompanied by two copies of an erosion and sediment control plan prepared in
accordance with §§
152.28 and
152.29. The plan shall be certified by the applicant and by a registered
professional engineer, professional soil conservationist or a registered
landscape architect.
   (B)   A landowner may develop and certify his or her sediment and erosion
control plan for a tract of land containing two acres or less, provided: the
area to be disturbed will not allow water in any one direction for over 200
feet without a reduction in velocity; the cuts and fills established will not
exceed a height or depth of over five feet; and there will be no concentrated
off-site water to be controlled on the site. The plan so developed must meet
the objective of §
152.28 and be submitted to the town.
(1995 Code, § 5-1078) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.23 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   If the plan conforms with the requirements of this chapter, the town
shall approve the plan and issue a grading permit to the applicant with a copy
of the approved plan.
   (B)   If the erosion and sediment control plan does not conform with the
requirements of this chapter, the plan shall be disapproved, and written
notification indicating the reason or reasons for plan disapproval shall be
forwarded to the applicant by the town.
   (C)   Review of erosion and sediment control plan shall require 30 days or
less from the date of submittal until the time a decision is rendered, either
approving or disapproving the plan. If, at the end of the 30-day period, a
decision has not been reached, the plan shall be deemed approved and a grading
permit issued on demand.
   (D)   If an erosion and sediment control plan is disapproved, the applicant
may elect to correct the indicated deficiencies in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter and resubmit the plan to the town.
(1995 Code, § 5-1079) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.24 VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   The town may, upon application to it and showing undue hardship, grant
variances and exceptions to any of the provisions of this chapter, provided the
variance or exception is, in the judgment of the Board, in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 5-1080) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.25 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the town may appeal to the
Town Council in writing within 15 working days. The Council shall notify the
applicant within 30 days as to the affirmation or denial of the appeal.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision on an appeal to the town may
appeal to the court of competent jurisdiction. The appeal shall be filed within
30 days after the decision of the Council.
(1995 Code, § 5-1081) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.26 EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMPLETE WORK.
   If the applicant is unable to complete the work within the time specified in
the approved plan and grading permit, he or she may, prior to the expiration of
that time, present in writing a request to the town for an extension of time,
setting forth the reasons for the requested extension. The town shall approve
or deny the request for an extension of time, subject to any additional erosion
and sediment control measures as may be reasonably required.
(1995 Code, § 5-1082) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.27 RESPONSIBILITY OF APPLICANT.
   The applicant shall be responsible for carrying out the proposed work in
accordance with the approved erosion and sediment control plan and grading, and
in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 5-1083) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.28 GUIDELINES FOR PREPARATION OF EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   Erosion and sediment control plans shall be prepared according to the
following guidelines, as applicable, prior to submission.
   (B)   Plans shall include appropriate measures and practices for erosion and
sediment control, installed in a timely sequence during the development
process, and maintained to ensure their proper functioning.
      (1)   Select land where the drainage pattern, topography and soils are
favorable for the intended use. Tracts of land vary in suitability for
different uses. Consider the major characteristics of the land area and the
kinds of soil in identifying and evaluating potential erosion and sediment
problems, and in selecting appropriate control measures and practices.
      (2)   Expose the smallest practical area of land for the least possible
time during development.
      (3)   When feasible, retain and protect natural vegetation. Save topsoil,
where practical, for replacing on graded areas.
      (4)   Use temporary plant cover, mulching and/or structures to control
runoff and protect areas subject to erosion during construction.
      (5)   Provide for handling the increased runoff caused by changes in
topography, soil and surface conditions. Emphasis should be placed on
conservation of existing on-site soil. Effective means include the use of
diversion ditches, grassed or surfaced waterways and outlets, enlarged and
protected drainage channels, grade control structures and effective use of
street gutters and storm sewers.
      (6)   Use sediment basins or other forms of silt traps, where practical,
to remove heavy sediment loads from runoff waters leaving the disturbed area.
      (7)   Install the permanent vegetative cover and the long-term erosion
protection measures or structures as soon as practical in the development
process.
(1995 Code, § 5-1084) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.29 CONTENTS OF PLAN AND APPLICATION.
   The erosion and sediment control plan and application for grading permit
shall include but not be limited to the following data as applicable:
   (A)   A vicinity map sufficient to locate the site and to show the
relationship of the site to its general surroundings at a scale of not less
than one mile to one inch;
   (B)   A site plan, drawn to a scale of not less than 200 feet to one inch,
and supporting specifications and schedules showing:
      (1)   The banner lines of the site on which the work is to be performed,
including the approximate acreage of the site;
      (2)   Existing contours with intervals of not more than five feet;
      (3)   Proposed physical improvement on the site, including present
development and future utilization, if known;
      (4)   All drainage provisions, flood protection provisions, erosion and
sediment control measures, vegetative practices or other protective devices to
be utilized in connection with, or as a part of, the proposed work;
      (5)   Provisions for erosion control during construction (temporary) and
during the life of the facility (permanent). These provisions shall include a
timing schedule and sequence of operations indicating the anticipated starting
and completion dates of the particular development sequence, and the estimated
time of control measures. Specifications accompanying the plan shall include,
as appropriate, seeding mixes and application rates, type of sod, seedbed
preparation, lime and fertilizer application, mulching and other related data;
      (6)   A complete and adequate grading plan for borrow pits and material
processing facilities, where applicable, including provisions for adequate
drainage in the areas;
      (7)   A general description of the predominant soil types of the site;
      (8)   The name and address of the owner, developer and petitioner, and
the individual responsible for satisfactory completion of the work described in
the plan, if different from the above;
      (9)   Title, scale, north arrow, data and name of the individual or
organization preparing the plan, with seal when applicable; and
      (10)   The plan and application shall be supported by supplemental
reports, specifications, data and additional reports, specifications, data and
additional information as the town may reasonably require, including but not
limited to finished contours, elevations, dimensions, locations, slopes, storm
drainage computations and field investigation reports on soil, drainage and
flooding.
   (C)   Applicant’s certification statement:
   “I (We) hereby certify that all clearing, grading, construction and/or
development will be done pursuant to this plan.
                                                                                                                                       
   Date                                  Permit Applicant”
   (D)   Design certification statement:
   “I hereby certify that this plan is designed to contain sediment on the
property concerned to the maximum extent feasible. Provisions for erosion and
sediment control are in accordance with the Sediment and Erosion Control
Ordinance (Chapter 152 of the city code).
                                                                                                                
Date
      Registered Professional Engineer, Professional Soil Conservationist, or
Registered Landscape Architect”
(1995 Code, § 5-1085) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.30 NOTIFICATION.
   The Town Utility Director and/or the Building Inspector shall provide proper
notification of the erosion and sediment control ordinance to those persons
applying for a building and/or grading permit and shall provide the necessary
forms required for application for securing approval of the erosion and
sediment control plan by the town. A copy of this chapter may also be made
available upon request.
(1995 Code, § 5-1086) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.31 INSPECTION.
   The town or its authorized representative shall periodically inspect the
work done under the approved plan and grading permit, as deemed advisable. Upon
completion of the work, the town shall make a final inspection and, if the work
has been completed in accordance with the plan and permit, the town shall issue
to the applicant a letter of satisfactory completion.
(1995 Code, § 5-1087) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.32 RELATIONSHIP WITH OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   Whenever the provisions of this chapter impose more restrictive standards
than are required in or under any other law, regulation or ordinance, the
requirements herein contained shall prevail. Whenever the provisions of any
other law, regulation or ordinance require more restrictive standards than are
required herein, the requirements of the law, regulation or ordinance shall
prevail.
(1995 Code, § 5-1088) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.33 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person who engages in any grading operation subject to the provisions of
this Act without first obtaining a permit as required by §
152.20 or who willfully violates the provisions of a grading plan submitted to
obtain a grading permit shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be subject to the provisions of §
152.99.
(1995 Code, § 5-1089) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.34 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The 1991 Stormwater Management Act, being S.C. Code §§ 48-14-10 et
seq., which creates a uniform statewide program to manage stormwater runoff and
reduce sedimentation from land disturbing activities, became effective June 26.
Enforcement for land disturbing areas on five or more acres started on October
1, 1992.
   (B)   Land Resources Commission will operate the program for the town and
the county. On acreage of less than five acres, enforcement for land disturbing
areas will be in accordance with this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 5-1091) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.35 DISCREPANCIES.
   When discrepancies exist between requirements of this code and the State
Stormwater Management Act, being S.C. Code §§ 48-14-10 et seq., the legislation
imposing the greater restrictions shall apply.
(1995 Code, § 5-1092) (Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified, any person who willfully violates the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days or fined not more
than $200, or both.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
152.33, upon conviction shall be imprisoned for not more than six months or
fined not more than $1,000, or both.
(1995 Code, § 5-1089)
   (C)   If deemed necessary, the Town Utility Department may recommend to the
Town Council that the permit be revoked and obtain injunctive relief to enjoin
violations of the provisions of this chapter, and any person damaged as a
result of the violations may, upon proper showing of the damages, obtain
payment therefor by a civil action.
(1995 Code, § 5-1090)
(Ord. passed 7-1-1986)
CHAPTER 153: TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Prohibited in first fire district
   
153.03   License required for trailer park
   
153.04   Sanitation requirements
   
153.05   Space requirements
   
153.06   Permit required for additions to trailers
   
153.07   Records of occupancy
   
153.08   Exception for private use
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRAILER COACH. Any portable structure or vehicle so constructed and designed
as to permit occupancy thereof for temporary or permanent dwelling, sleeping or
storage purposes, regardless of whether equipped with wheels or resting on any
type of temporary or permanent foundation.
   TRAILER COACH PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of ground upon which one
or more trailer coaches are placed regardless of whether or not a charge is
made for the accommodations, and shall include any building, structure, tent,
vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of the
park.
(1995 Code, § 5-3001) (Ord. passed 6-13-1960)
§ 153.02 PROHIBITED IN FIRST FIRE DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park, for use or
occupancy, any trailer coach of any kind overnight on any street, highway or
other public place within the town and no trailer coach shall be parked for use
or occupancy within the limits of the first fire district as described in §
150.015(A), or as may be hereinafter established by the town.
(1995 Code, § 5-3002) (Ord. passed 6-13-1960) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.03 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR TRAILER PARK.
   Prior to the opening, operation or maintaining of a trailer park, the owner
(s) shall first apply to the town for a license or permit to open, operate, or
maintain the park. Application shall be in writing to the Finance Director and
shall state the proposed location, the size of the lot, the number of trailer
accommodations, water and sewer services available and the name and address of
the owner and operator, and any other pertinent information which may be
desired by the town pertaining to the proposed operation. The cost of the
license shall be determined by the town’s business license ordinance. The
license will be determined by the total gross income.
(1995 Code, § 5-3003) (Ord. passed 6-13-1960)
§ 153.04 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Each trailer coach park shall provide sanitary facilities, water supply,
sewer connections and provisions for storage or containing of garbage, all of
which shall meet the regulations of the town pertaining to utility and sewer
services and shall also meet the requirements of the Town and County Health
Departments. No license, as above required, shall be issued by the town until
the proposed owner or operator has received from the Town or County Health
Officer a certification that the site meets the health regulations. The license
shall be valid only during the period the trailer coach park continues to meet
the Health Department requirements.
(1995 Code, § 5-3004) (Ord. passed 6-13-1960)
§ 153.05 SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   No trailer shall be placed within 25 feet of the street line abutting each
trailer coach park, nor shall any trailer be placed closer than ten feet to any
adjoining property line, nor within ten feet of any other trailer.
(1995 Code, § 5-3005) (Ord. passed 6-13-1960)
§ 153.06 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ADDITIONS TO TRAILERS.
   No additions shall be made to any trailer coach without first obtaining a
building permit as required by the town and all additions shall be subject to
the Building Code.
(1995 Code, § 5-3006) (Ord. passed 6-13-1960)
§ 153.07 RECORDS OF OCCUPANCY.
   The owner or operator of each trailer park shall keep permanent records
showing the names and addresses of each owner and each occupant of each trailer
coach, the date of arrival and date of leaving the trailer coach park, and the
model, make, year and license of each trailer coach and motor vehicle used in
connection therewith. The records shall be available to inspection by the
officials of the Town and County Health Departments and law enforcement
officers.
(1995 Code, § 5-3007) (Ord. passed 6-13-1960)
§ 153.08 EXCEPTION FOR PRIVATE USE.
   This chapter shall not apply to any person, firm or corporation who places a
trailer on his, her or their private property for any purpose other than
commercial use.
(1995 Code, § 5-3008) (Ord. passed 6-13-1960)
CHAPTER 154: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Compliance with road specifications required for annexation
   
154.02   Vested rights to develop property
Planning Commission
   
154.15   Planning Commission established
   
154.16   Membership
   
154.17   Organization, meetings, rules, staff and finances
   
154.18   Bylaws
   
154.19   General powers and duties
Zoning Regulation
   
154.30   Zoning ordinance adopted
Subdivision Regulation
   
154.45   Development design standards adopted
Cross-reference:
   Development impact fees for water and wastewater disposal facilities, see §
50.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 COMPLIANCE WITH ROAD SPECIFICATIONS REQUIRED FOR ANNEXATION.
   (A)   No parcel or tract of land shall be annexed into the town unless the
same fronts on an existing paved public road which is part of the State
Department of Highway and Public Transportation system of roadways.
   (B)   No parcel or tract of land presently within the town limits shall be
subdivided unless and until the owner or owners thereof first construct thereon
a road or roads which are connected to and accepted into the state highway
system by the State Department of Highways and Public Transportation and which
provide access (usable by automobiles and other vehicles) to all lots within
the subdivision.
   (C)   SUBDIVIDED as used herein shall be deemed to be the division of a
parcel of real estate into two or more parcels by any means whatsoever
including but not limited to sale or lease.
(Ord. 02-20-01, passed - -)
§ 154.02 VESTED RIGHTS TO DEVELOP PROPERTY.
   Pursuant to the State Vested Rights Act, being S.C. Code, Title 6, Chapter
29, Article 11:
   (A)   Scope and title. All applicable ordinances, municipal code sections
and regulations relating to zoning, planning and land development within the
municipality are subject to this section, which shall be known as the Vested
Rights to Develop Property Ordinance;
   (B)   Definition. Except as hereinafter set forth, the words, terms and
phrases when used in this section shall have the meaning as set forth in S.C.
Code § 6-29-1520, as enacted by Act 287 of 2004.
      SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN. In addition and as a supplement to the
definition set forth in S.C. Code § 6-29-1520, as enacted by Act 287 of 2004,
further defined to mean those documents that comprise a complete application
for a zoning permit, certificate of zoning compliance, variance, special
exception, planned unit development, sketch plat or sketch plan, or other
similar approval that authorizes the landowner to proceed with investment in
grading, installation of utilities, streets, and other infrastructure, and to
undertake other significant expenditures necessary to prepare for application
for a building permit.
   (C)   Establishment and conditions of vested rights.
      (1)   A vested right to develop property in accord with a site specific
development plan is triggered upon the final approval of the site specific
development plan by the final official or body of the municipality authorized
to approve a site specific development plan and the payment to the municipality
of all applicable established fees.
      (2)   Except as hereinafter set forth, a vested right established by this
section is subject to the conditions and limitations as set out in S.C. Code §§
6-29-1540 and 6-29-1550, as enacted by Act 287 of 2004.
      (3)   A vested right for an approved site specific development plan
expires two years after the date of final approval by the final official or
body authorized to approve a site specific development plan.
      (4)   No vested rights are established for phased development plans,
including approved or conditionally approved phased development plans and
including phased development plans applicable to property proposed for
annexation. An approved or conditionally approved site specific development
plan is required prior to approval with respect to each phase of a phased
development plan.
      (5)   A vested site specific development plan may be amended if the
amendment conforms to, or does not cause greater nonconformity with, the then
current provisions of the municipal zoning, planning and land development
ordinances, municipal code sections or regulations. Approval or conditional
approval of an amendment does not re-set or restart the expiration period of a
vested right.
      (6)   No sooner than three months, and no later than 45 days prior to the
expiration of the two-year vested right period for an approved site specific
development plan, the landowner of property with a vested right in a site
specific development plan may apply to the authorized official or body for an
annual extension of the vested right. The authorized official or body must
approve an application for an annual extension of the vested right unless an
amendment to the land development ordinances or regulations has been adopted
that prohibits approval. No more than five annual extensions of the vested
right may be approved.
(Ord. 062105C, passed 6-21-2005)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 154.15 PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of
the area which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote
the welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development,
the Town Planning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Planning
Commission, is hereby established as authorized by Act 487, South Carolina Acts
of 1967, as amended, being S.C. Code 6-29-310 through 6-29-380; all previous
ordinances pertaining to the creation, powers and organization are hereby
dissolved; and the Planning Commission shall forthwith be organized, empowered
and governed by the following provisions set out in this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 5-2001) (Ord. passed 3-17-1987)
§ 154.16 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members to be appointed by the
Town Council. The terms of office of the members shall be for four years,
except that of the five members first appointed, one member shall be appointed
for a term of one year, town members for two years, one member for three years,
and one member for four years. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for
the unexpired term by the Mayor, who shall also have the authority to remove
any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members
shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses
incurred in connection with their official duties.
(1995 Code, § 5-2002) (Ord. passed 3-17-1987)
§ 154.17 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, RULES, STAFF AND FINANCES.
   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from
among its members. The term of the Chairperson and other officers shall be one
year with eligibility for reelection. It shall appoint a Secretary who may be
an officer or an employee of the governing authority or of the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of
business and shall keep a record of its recommendations; and shall meet at the
call of the Planning Commission at which official action is taken shall be open
to the public and all records of the Commission shall be a public record. The
Commission may appoint any employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its
work and may make expenditures for salaries of any employees and staff,
contracts with consultants, and for the purchase of required equipment and
supplies. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be
within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the Town Council.
(1995 Code, § 5-2003) (Ord. passed 3-17-1987)
§ 154.18 BYLAWS.
   (A)   Name of Commission.  The official name of the Commission shall be the
Town Planning Commission.
   (B)   Officers.
      (1)   Election of officers. Annually, at the regular meeting of the
Planning Commission held in the month of July, the Commission shall elect a
Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson and a Secretary. The officers may succeed
themselves once.
      (2)   Chairperson. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the
Planning Commission and at other meetings and public hearings called by the
Commission. He or she shall call special meetings of the Planning Commission
when required and shall transmit reports, plans and recommendations of the
Planning Commission to the appropriate governing authority, and in general
shall act as spokesperson for the Commission.
      (3)   Vice Chairperson. The Vice Chairperson shall serve as Chairperson
in the absence or the disability of the Chairperson. In the event of the death
or resignation of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall perform the
latter’s duties until a time as the Commission shall elect a new Chairperson.
      (4)   Secretary.  The Secretary shall assist the Chairperson in the
preparation of agenda for Planning Commission meetings, shall prepare and send
out notices for regular and special meetings, shall establish and maintain the
Commission’s files and its books of account, and shall have the custody of all
funds coming into the possession of the Commission and shall deposit the same
in the name of the Commission in a bank or banks as the Commission may select.
Under the Commission’s direction and upon its authorization, the Secretary
shall sign all orders and checks for the payment of money and shall pay out and
disburse Commission funds.
      (5)   Additional duties. The Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary
shall undertake any other duties and functions as may from time to time be
required by the Commission or by its bylaws.
   (C)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings. The regular meetings of the Planning Commission
shall be held on the third Thursday of each month, at 7:00 p.m. at the call of
the Chairperson. There will be no regular meeting in December.
      (2)   Special meetings. Special meetings shall be called by the
Chairperson, provided that reasonable advance notice is given each member.
      (3)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of three members.
      (4)   Order of business.  The order of business at all regular meetings
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Roll call;
         (b)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting;
         (c)   Unfinished business;
         (d)   New business; and
         (e)   Adjournment.
      (5)   Meetings and records open. All meetings of the Planning Commission
at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records
of the Commission shall be a public record.
      (6)   Voting. All members must vote, unless there is a conflict of
interest, which must be so stated. The Chairperson has the option of voting;
Chairperson must vote to break any tie vote.
   (D)   Amendments to bylaws. Changes may be made to the bylaws of the
Planning Commission by the affirmative vote of the majority of the entire
membership of the Commission.
(1995 Code, § 5-2004) (Ord. passed 11-2-1989)
§ 154.19 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   From and after the time when the Planning Commission shall have
organized and selected its officers and shall have adopted its rules of
procedure, the Commission shall have all the powers, duties and
responsibilities set forth in Act 487, South Carolina Acts of 1967, as amended,
being S.C. Code 6-29-310 through 6-29-380.
   (B)   In general the Planning Commission shall have the power and duties to:
      (1)   Prepare and revise periodically a comprehensive plan and program
for the development of its jurisdiction;
      (2)   Prepare and recommend for adoption to the Town Council as a means
for implementing the plan and program:
         (a)   Zoning ordinances or resolutions, and maps and appropriate
revisions thereof for its jurisdiction;
         (b)   Regulations for the subdivision of land and appropriate
revisions thereof within its jurisdictions, and to administer the regulations
that may be adopted;
         (c)   An official map and appropriate revision thereof showing the
exact location of existing or proposed public street, highway and utility
rights-of-way and public building site, together with regulations to control
the erection of buildings or other structures or changes in land use within the
rights-of-way, building sites or open spaces within its political jurisdiction
or a specified portion thereof; and
         (d)   A capital program for its jurisdiction based on the
comprehensive plan and the capital improvements necessary to implement the
plan. Such a capital program shall include an annual capital budget, to the
Town Council as directed.
      (3)   Recommend principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area;
      (4)   Prepare and recommend to the Town Council for adoption ordinances
promoting orderly development in accordance with the comprehensive plan;
      (5)   Determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan for the growth and
improvement of the area;
      (6)   Review and recommend to the Town Council any needed changes in the
zoning ordinance and the official map of the town; as well as the subdivision
regulations, official map and other codes, ordinances and controls related to
the town’s development; and
      (7)   Keep the Town Council and the general public informed and advised
as to these matters.
(1995 Code, § 5-2005) (Ord. passed 3-17-1987)
ZONING REGULATION
§ 154.30 ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the document cited as the zoning
ordinance of the town, adopted November, 2102, as amended, which is
incorporated herein as if set forth in full, a copy of which is on file in the
office of the Building Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 5-2011) (Ord. 091713, passed 9-17-2013; Ord. 110612A, passed 11-
-2012)
SUBDIVISION REGULATION
§ 154.45 DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   The subdivision regulations for the town, as set forth in Ord. 110612A, as
amended, are hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies
are available through town offices.
(Ord. 110612A, passed 11- -2012)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
V.   REZONING
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.          Date Passed Description
                              Agreement with Municipal Association of South
081799            8-17-1999   Carolina for collection of business license taxes
                              from telecommunications companies
01-22-08          1-22-2008   Authorizing wholesale water contract with the
                              Town of Ridgeway
090208            11-11-2008  Amendment to Ridgeway water purchase contract
                              Agreement with Myers Timber Company to manage
122011            12-20-2011  selective harvesting of timber on town land
                              adjacent to reservoir
                              Approving a loan assistance agreement and the
Res. 030717       3-7-2017    South Carolina Water Quality Revolving Fund
                              Authority
                              Approving an agreement to make and to accept a
112117            11-21-2017  loan agreement between the town and Water Quality
                              Revolving Fund Authority
                              Entering an agreement with the Municipal
                              Association of South Carolina to act as a
Res. 2018-101618A 10-16-2018  claimant agency for the collection of debt on
                              behalf of the town in accordance with the Setoff
                              Debt Collection Act
                              Approving an agreement between the Town of
072120            7-21-2020   Winnsboro and Fairfield County to share
                              administrative costs of the Fairfield Joint Water
                              and Sewer System
                              Authorizing the town to enter into an
73                4-5-2023    intergovernmental agreement relating to South
                              Carolina Local Revenue Services
                              Approving the second supplement to the agreement
82                8-1-2023    to share costs between the town and the Fairfield
                              Joint Water and Sewer System
                              Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental
83                8-8-2023    sewer infrastructure agreement with Fairfield
                              Joint Water and Sewer System
                             
 
TABLE II: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the issuance of combined utility system
990405   4-5-1999    revenue refunding bonds (second supplemental amendatory
                     ordinance)
-        11-17-2009  Authorizing the issuance of combined utility revenue bonds
                     (third supplemental amendatory ordinance)
2016A    9-6-2016    Providing for the issuance and sale of combined utility
                     system improvement revenue bonds
                     Providing for the issuance and sale of combined utility
090616A  9-6-2016    system revenue bonds, amended and restated master bond
                     ordinance
                     Amending Ord. passed 11-17-2009, to amend the Debt Service
                     Reserve Fund Requirement, approving changes to the loan
120417B  12-19-2017  agreement between the town and the South Carolina Water
                     Quality Revolving Fund Authority; approving the amendment
                     and restatement of the Debt Service Fund and approving the
                     release of Debt Service Reserve Fund moneys
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Granting to Carolina Pipeline Company the right, power
                         and authority to lay, maintain and operate natural gas
Appendix I - - -         mains, pipes and services on, along, across and under
                         the streets, alleys, bridges and other public places
                         and to do a local natural gas business of the town,
                         for a period of 30 years
                         Granting the right, privilege and franchise to General
                         Telephone Company of the Southeast, its successors and
                         assigns, to construct, erect, build, equip, own,
                         maintain and operate in, along, under, over and across
                         the streets, avenues, alleys, bridges, viaducts and
Appendix I - - -         public grounds of the town any and all appliances,
                         structures and fixtures necessary or convenient for
                         rendition of telephone and other communication service
                         and for conducting a general local and long distance
                         telephone business; providing for the assignment of
                         franchise, for consideration, for repeal of
                         conflicting ordinances and/or partial invalidity
                         A cable television franchise ordinance for the town is
Appendix I - - -         listed here by reference as if it were incorporated
                         fully in this code
                         Approving the sale or transfer of Winnsboro/Ridgeway
--           5-21-2002   Cablevision, Inc. to Chester Telephone Company per
                         franchise agreement dated 11-16-1999
                         Amending the existing Cablevision franchise (11-16-
--           5-21-2002   1999) with Winnsboro/Ridgeway Cablevision Inc. to
                         extend the time for system upgrade
                         A franchise agreement between Winnsboro and the Town
02182020     2-18-2020   of Blythewood granting Winnsboro the non-exclusive
                         right, power and authority of water transmission and
                         distribution within the Town of Blythewood
72           2-7-2023    Granting consent to application for franchise for
                         cable or video service with Spectrum Southeast, LLC
                        
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord.    Date   Description
No.     Passed
02-04-  2-4-   Approving the conveyance of Lot C on a plat dated 11-20-2002,
03B     2003   containing 0.085 acre, more or less, to Lang-Mekra North America,
               LLC
               Authorizing the town to lease a portion of the water tank located on
        1-7-   Cook Road to Fairfield County for the purposes of locating two radio
010714  2014   antennas on the tank, and the placement of an auxiliary radio
               equipment building adjacent to the tank for the county’s EMS
               Department
               Authorizing the town to sell Mt. Zion Institute, located on a parcel
012114  3-4-   consisting of 3.27 acres at 250 North Walnut Street, to Friends of
        2014   Mt. Zion Institute, a not-for-profit corporation, for the
               rehabilitation of the historic structures of Mt. Zion Institute
               Declaring surplus property consisting of 3.27 acres, for stimulating
               commercial enterprises within the town for a proposed government
        12-4-  complex designed and financed according to a memorandum of
120417A 2017   understanding between Fairfield County and First and Main
               Development, LLC, as may be amended to add MZI Holdings, LLC under
               the terms and conditions described in the deed and to authorize the
               Mayor to sign the deed of 3.27 acres to MZI Holdings, LLC
              
 
TABLE V: REZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezoning a 3.15 acre lot, owned by Mount Zion Institute,
072010   7-20-2010   LLC and identified as Tax Map No. 126-01-11-028, from R-
                     1 to PDD-C, Planned Development District—Commercial
                     Rezoning 22 acres owned by Fairfield County School
030519A  3-5-2019    District, and identified as Tax Map No. 144-02-02-002-00,
                     from C-2, General Commercial, to R-3, Multi-Family
                     Residential District
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to 1995 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. Code Section Code Section
S.C. Code Section         Code Section
4-9-90                    11.04
5-7-110                   32.06
5-7-220                   31.23
5-7-230                   35.13
5-7-250 through 5-7-280   30.056
5-7-260                   31.50
5-7-280                   150.071
5-9-40                    30.018
5-13-10 through 5-13-100  11.02
5-13-90                   31.09
5-15-10 et seq.           30.001
5-15-61                   30.073
5-15-130                  30.075
5-15-150                  30.018
5-31-2510                 52.12
5-31-2520                 52.12
5-31-2530                 52.12
5-31-2540                 52.12
5-31-2550                 52.12
6-1-410                   110.11,
                          110.16
6-9-10                    150.071
6-9-60                    150.071
6-17-20                   50.05
6-29-310 through 6-29-380 154.15,
                          154.19
6-29-700                  151.01
6-29-870 et seq.          151.01
6-29-870(C)               151.03
6-29-900 et seq.          151.11
Title 6, Ch. 29, Art. 11  154.02
6-29-1520                 154.02
6-29-1540                 154.02
6-29-1550                 154.02
12-56-10 et seq.          33.44
Title 16                  130.01
23-35-45 et seq.          132.05
30-4-10 et seq.           30.031
                          110.02,
Title 38, Ch. 7           110.11,
                          110.16
                          110.02,
Title 38, Ch. 45          110.11,
                          110.16
38-7-20                   110.02
Title 40, Ch. 22          152.05
Title 40, Ch. 28          152.05
40-56-1 et seq.           132.05
40-56-20(3)               132.01
Title 44, Ch. 53          131.01
44-53-391                 131.01
Title 46, Ch. 7           70.01
                          90.01 –
47-1-10 et seq            90.22,
                          90.99
                          90.01 –
47-3-10 et seq.           90.22,
                          90.99
47-3-540                  90.05
                          90.01 –
47-5-10 et seq.           90.22,
                          90.99
48-14-10 et seq.          152.34,
                          152.35
                          53.40,
49-23-10 et seq.          53.41,
                          53.43
56-5-30                   70.01
56-5-710                  70.01
56-5-5610                 96.06
56-5-5680                 96.06
56-5-720                  70.10,
                          Ch. 73 Sched. II
                          110.02,
Title 58, Ch. 9, Art. 20  110.11,
                          110.16
63-5-510                  130.11
 
REFERENCES TO 1995 CODE
1995 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1995 Code Section                      2013 Code Section
Preface                                11.02
Historical Sketch Supplementary Facts, 11.03
New Charter                            Charter
1-1001                                 30.001
1-2001                                 30.015
1-2002                                 30.016
1-2003                                 30.017
1-2004                                 30.018
1-3001                                 30.030
1-3002                                 30.031
1-3003                                 30.032
1-3004                                 30.033
1-3005                                 30.034
1-3006                                 30.035
1-3007                                 30.036
1-3008                                 30.037
1-3021                                 30.050
1-3022                                 30.051
1-3023                                 30.052
1-3024                                 30.053
1-3025                                 30.054
1-3026                                 30.055
1-3027                                 30.056
1-3041                                 10.01
1-3042                                 10.03,
                                       10.04
1-3043                                 10.05
1-3044                                 10.06
1-3045                                 10.07
1-3046                                 10.08
1-3047                                 10.09
1-3048                                 10.99
1-3049                                 11.01
1-4001                                 31.01
1-4002                                 31.02
1-4003                                 31.03
1-4004                                 31.04
1-4005                                 31.05
1-4006                                 31.06
1-4007                                 31.07
1-4008                                 31.08
1-4009                                 31.09
1-4021                                 31.20
1-4022                                 31.21
1-4023                                 31.22
1-4024                                 31.23
1-4031                                 31.35
1-4041                                 31.50
1-5001                                 33.01
1-5002                                 33.02
1-5003                                 33.03
1-5004                                 33.04
1-5005                                 33.05
1-5006                                 33.06
1-5007                                 33.07
1-5008                                 33.08
1-5009                                 33.09
1-5021                                 33.25
1-5022                                 33.26
1-5023                                 33.27
1-5024                                 33.28
1-5025                                 33.29
1-5026                                 33.30
1-5027                                 33.31
1-5028                                 33.32
1-5029                                 33.33
1-5030                                 33.34
1-5031                                 33.35
1-5032                                 33.36
1-5033                                 33.37
1-5034                                 33.38
1-5035                                 33.39
1-5036                                 33.40
1-5037                                 33.41
1-5038                                 33.42
1-5039                                 33.43
1-5051                                 34.01
1-5052                                 34.02
1-5053                                 34.03
1-5054                                 34.04
1-5055                                 34.05
1-5056                                 34.06
1-5057                                 34.07
1-5058                                 34.08
1-5059                                 34.09
1-5060                                 34.10
1-5061                                 34.11
1-5062                                 34.12
1-5063                                 34.13
1-5064                                 34.14
1-6045                                 36.15
1-7001                                 35.01
1-7002                                 35.02
1-7003                                 35.03
1-7004                                 35.04
1-7005                                 35.05
1-7006                                 35.06
1-7007                                 35.07
1-7008                                 35.08
1-7009                                 35.09
1-7010                                 35.10
1-7011                                 35.11
1-7012                                 35.12
1-7013                                 35.13
1-8001                                 30.070
1-8002                                 30.071
1-8003                                 30.072
1-8004                                 30.073
1-8005                                 30.074
1-8006                                 30.075
2-1001                                 32.01
2-1002                                 32.02
2-1003                                 32.03
2-1004                                 32.04
2-1005                                 32.05
2-1006                                 32.06
2-2001                                 92.01
2-2002                                 92.02
2-2003                                 92.03
2-2004                                 92.04
2-2005                                 92.05
2-2006                                 92.06
2-2007                                 92.07
2-2021                                 92.20
2-2022                                 92.21
2-2023                                 92.22
2-2024                                 92.23
2-3001                                 32.20
2-3002                                 32.21
2-3003                                 32.22
2-3004                                 32.23
2-3005                                 32.24
3-1001                                 94.01
3-1002                                 94.02
3-1003                                 94.03
3-1004                                 94.04
3-1005                                 94.05
3-1006                                 94.06
3-1007                                 94.07
3-1009                                 94.08
3-1021                                 94.20
3-1022                                 94.21
3-1023                                 94.22
3-1031                                 72.01
3-1032                                 72.02
3-1033                                 72.03
3-1034                                 72.04
3-1035                                 72.05
3-1036                                 72.06
3-1037                                 72.07
3-1038                                 72.08
3-1039                                 72.09
3-1040                                 72.10
3-1041                                 72.11
3-1042                                 72.12
3-1043                                 72.13
3-1044                                 72.14
3-1051                                 91.01
3-1052                                 91.02
3-1053                                 91.03
3-1054                                 91.04
3-1055                                 91.05
3-1056                                 91.06
3-1057                                 91.07
3-1058                                 91.08
3-1059                                 91.09
3-1060                                 91.10
3-1061                                 91.11
3-1062                                 91.12
3-1063                                 91.13
3-1064                                 91.14
3-1065                                 91.15
3-1066                                 91.16
3-1067                                 91.17
3-1068                                 91.18
3-1069                                 91.19
3-1070                                 91.99
3-2001                                 95.01
3-3001                                 36.30
3-3002                                 36.31
3-3003                                 36.32
3-3004                                 36.33
3-3005                                 36.34
3-3006                                 36.35
4-1001                                 50.01
4-1002                                 50.02
4-1003                                 50.03
4-1004                                 50.04
4-1005                                 50.05
4-2001                                 53.01
4-2002                                 53.02
4-2003                                 53.03
4-2004                                 53.04
4-2005                                 53.05
4-2006                                 53.06
4-2007                                 53.07
4-2008                                 53.08
4-2009                                 53.09
4-2010                                 53.10
4-2011                                 53.11
4-2012                                 53.12
4-2013                                 53.13
4-2021                                 53.25
4-2022                                 53.26
4-2023                                 53.27
4-2031                                 54.01
4-2032                                 54.02
4-2033                                 54.03
4-2034                                 54.04
4-2035                                 54.05
4-2036                                 54.06
4-2036.1                               54.07
4-2037                                 54.08
4-2038                                 54.09
4-2039                                 54.10
4-2051                                 54.25
4-2052                                 54.26
4-2053                                 54.27
4-2054                                 54.28
4-2071                                 53.99,
                                       54.99
4-2072                                 53.65
4-2073                                 53.66,
                                       54.60
4-3001                                 54.40
4-3002                                 54.41
4-3003                                 54.42
4-3004                                 54.43
4-3005                                 54.44
4-3006                                 54.45
4-3007                                 54.46
4-3008                                 54.47,
                                       54.99
4-3009                                 54.48
4-3010                                 54.50
4-4001                                 52.01
4-4002                                 52.02
4-4003                                 52.03
4-4004                                 52.04
4-4005                                 52.05
4-4006                                 52.06
4-4007                                 52.07
4-4008                                 52.08
4-4009                                 52.09
4-4010                                 52.10
4-4011                                 52.11
5-1001                                 150.015
5-1002                                 150.016
5-1003                                 150.017
5-1011                                 150.030
5-1012                                 150.031
5-1013                                 150.032
5-1014                                 150.033
5-1015                                 150.034
5-1016                                 150.035
5-1031                                 150.050
5-1032                                 150.051
5-1041                                 150.065
5-1042                                 150.066
5-1043                                 150.067
5-1044                                 150.068
5-1045                                 150.069
5-1046                                 150.070
5-1047                                 150.071
5-1061                                 150.085
5-1062                                 150.086
5-1071                                 152.01
5-1072                                 152.02
5-1073                                 152.03
5-1074                                 152.04
5-1075                                 152.05
5-1076                                 152.20
5-1077                                 152.21
5-1078                                 152.22
5-1079                                 152.23
5-1080                                 152.24
5-1081                                 152.25
5-1082                                 152.26
5-1083                                 152.27
5-1084                                 152.28
5-1085                                 152.29
5-1086                                 152.30
5-1087                                 152.31
5-1088                                 152.32
5-1089                                 152.33
5-1090                                 152.99
5-1091                                 152.34
5-1092                                 152.35
5-2001                                 154.15
5-2002                                 154.16
5-2003                                 154.17
5-2004                                 154.18
5-2005                                 154.19
5-2011                                 154.30
5-3001                                 153.01
5-3002                                 153.02
5-3003                                 153.03
5-3004                                 153.04
5-3005                                 153.05
5-3006                                 153.06
5-3007                                 153.07
5-3008                                 153.08
Ch. 6                                  36.01
6-1001                                 51.01
6-1002                                 51.02
6-1003                                 51.03
7-2001                                 111.01
7-2002                                 111.02
7-2003                                 111.03
7-2004                                 111.04
7-3001                                 132.01
7-3002                                 132.02
7-3003                                 132.03
7-3004                                 132.04
7-3005                                 132.05
7-4001                                 112.01
7-4002                                 112.02
7-4003                                 112.03
7-4004                                 112.04
7-4005                                 112.05
7-5001                                 113.01
7-5002                                 113.02
7-5004                                 113.03
7-5005                                 113.04
8-1001                                 70.01
8-1002                                 70.02
8-1003                                 70.03
8-1004                                 70.04
8-1005                                 70.05
8-1006                                 70.06
8-1007                                 70.07
8-1008                                 70.08,
                                       Ch. 73 Sched. I
8-2002(a)                              Ch. 73 Sched. III
8-2002(b)                              71.01
8-2003                                 71.02
8-2004                                 71.03
8-2005                                 71.04
8-2007                                 71.07,
                                       Ch. 74 Sched. I
9-1001                                 130.01
9-1002                                 130.02
9-1003                                 130.03
9-1004                                 130.04
9-1005                                 130.05
9-1006                                 130.06
9-1007                                 130.07
9-1008                                 130.08
9-1009                                 130.09,
                                       130.99
9-1010                                 130.10,
                                       130.99
9-2001                                 131.01
9-2002                                 131.02
9-2003                                 131.03,
                                       131.99
9-2004                                 131.04,
                                       131.99
9-2005                                 131.05,
                                       131.99
9-2006                                 131.06,
                                       131.99
9-2007                                 131.07
Appendix I                             TSO III
                                       
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.     Date Passed Code Section
                         36.30 –
-            1-23-1979   36.34,
                         50.04
-            2-4-2003    Ch. 73 Sched. II
030717       3-7-2017    TSO I
04172018-A   4-17-2018   36.04
2018-101618A 10-16-2018  TSO I
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
-            - -         Ch. 74 Sched. I
-            - -         Ch. 73 Sched. III
-            4-16-2002   94.99
-            - -         TSO III
-            - -         TSO III
-            - -         TSO III
02-20-01     - -         154.01
-            5-7-1946    70.07
-            7-1-1947    111.01
-            1-26-1948   32.24
-            1-26-1948   50.02
-            1-26-1948   70.07
-            1-26-1948   92.03 –
                         92.07
-            1-26-1948   94.07
-            1-26-1948   95.01
-            1-26-1948   113.02
-            10-5-1948   113.03
-            9-20-1955   31.01 –
                         31.09
-            2-12-1957   35.01,
                         35.08
-            2-19-1957   35.10,
                         35.12
-            3-11-1958   51.01 –
                         51.03
-            10-28-1958  150.015
-            12-28-1959  112.01 –
                         112.05
-            6-13-1960   153.01 –
                         153.08
-            12-12-1961  132.01 –
                         132.05
-            11-25-1963  35.13
-            4-7-1970    50.03
-            4-7-1970    94.08
-            4-21-1970   52.01 –
                         52.11
-            7-7-1970    33.01
-            7-21-1970   32.20 –
                         32.23
-            10-20-1970  150.001
-            9-5-1972    70.05
-            12-4-1972   113.01
-            2-19-1974   150.001
-            1-20-1976   30.001
-            6-15-1976   33.07
-            9-5-1978    70.06
                         54.40 –
-            2-16-1982   54.48,
                         54.50,
                         54.99
                         53.01 –
                         53.13,
                         53.25-
                         53.27,
                         53.65,
                         53.66,
                         53.99,
-            3-2-1982    54.01 –
                         54.06,
                         54.09,
                         54.10,
                         54.25,
                         54.27,
                         54.60,
                         54.99
-            6-7-1983    34.02 –
                         34.14
-            6-21-1983   33.04
-            10-2-1984   53.04
-            11-5-1984   36.35
-            2-19-1985   113.04
-            1-7-1986    54.07
                         54.41 –
-            6-3-1986    54.43,
                         54.47,
                         54.99
                         91.01 –
-            6-3-1986    91.19,
                         91.99
                         152.01 –
                         152.05,
-            7-1-1986    152.20-
                         152.35,
                         152.99
-            2-10-1987   50.05
                         154.15 –
-            3-17-1987   154.17,
                         154.19
-            9-6-1988    70.08,
                         Ch. 73 Sched. I
01-17-89B    2-7-1989    30.070,
                         30.071
05-16-89     6-6-1989    72.01 –
                         72.14
-            11-2-1989   154.18
990405       4-5-1999    TSO II
081799       8-17-1999   TSO I
051600A      5-16-2000   70.09
02-19-02B    2-19-2002   36.03
-            5-21-2002   TSO III
-            5-21-2002   TSO III
02-04-03A    2-4-2003    70.10
02-04-03B    2-4-2003    TSO IV
06-03-03     6-3-2003    53.40 –
                         53.50
06-17-03C    6-17-2003   150.001 –
                         150.004
01-06-04     1-6-2004    36.02
06-15-04     6-15-2004   36.03
062105C      6-21-2005   154.02
12-6-05      12-6-2005   71.08
071806       7-18-2006   30.035
09-05-06     9-5-2006    33.44
                         52.12,
11-20-06-A   11-20-2006  52.28,
                         Ch. 52 Appx A
112006B      12-5-2006   52.25 –
                         52.28
011607H      1-16-2007   30.050
01-22-08     1-22-2008   TSO I
09-16-08     9-16-2008   53.27
090208       11-11-2008  TSO I
                         51.02,
08-18-09-A   8-18-2009   51.03,
                         51.04
-            11-17-2009  TSO II
03-16-10     3-16-2010   91.03,
                         91.18
06-15-10-C   6-15-2010   30.072
072010       7-20-2010   TSO V
040511       4-5-2011    52.12
120611       - -2011     52.25 –
                         52.28
122011       12-20-2011  TSO I
071712       7-17-2012   11.04
110612A      11- -2012   154.30,
                         154.45
110612B      11-5-2012   54.49
110612C      11-5-2012   110.19
                         110.01 -
031913       3-5-2013    110.19,
                         110.99
082013       8-20-2013   110.19
091713       9-17-2013   154.30
010714       1-7-2014    TSO IV
012114       3-4-2014    TSO IV
                         96.01 –
4152014-B    5-20-2014   96.14,
                         96.99
080514       8-5-2014    130.11
102114       10-21-2014  54.02
050515       5-19-2015   50.06
2016A        9-6-2016    TSO II
090616A      9-6-2016    TSO II
112117    11-21-2017  TSO I
120417A      12-4-2017   TSO IV
120417B      12-19-2017  TSO II
2018-101618B 11-6-2018   33.44
101618C      11-6-2018   TSO IV
121917A      1-2-2018    50.07
030519A      3-5-2019    TSO V
030519B      3-5-2019    54.41
010720       2-4-2020    50.08
02182020     2-18-2020   TSO III
-            5-19-2020   52.27
06162020C    6-16-2020   150.001
072120       7-21-2020   TSO I
010720-B     1-19-2021   50.08
010521       1-19-2021   130.12
                         110.01 –
111621-A     12-7-2021   110.19,
                         110.99
                         96.01 –
62           10-18-2022  96.14,
                         96.99 
                         90.01 –
63           11-15-2022  90.22,
                         90.99
64           1-3-2023    11.04
72           2-7-2023    TSO III
73           4-5-2023    TSO I
82           8-1-2023    TSO I
83           8-8-2023    TSO I
92           11-21-2023  151.01 –
                         151.11
93           11-21-2023  50.04
                        
 
