CITY OF WINNER, SOUTH DAKOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1086, passed 10-21-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE # 972
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF
WINNER; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN;
PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF
AMENDING SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS
ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE
Be It Ordained By the City Council of the City of Winner:
   Section 1.   The Code entitled "Code of Ordinances for the City of Winner,
South Dakota" (the "Code") published by American Legal Publishing Corporation,
consisting of Titles I through XV is adopted. All provisions of the Winner
Municipal Code, which has been in place prior to this enactment, are
transferred to The Code of Ordinances and re-numbered accordingly.
   Section 2.   All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before November 15, 2010, and not included in the Code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein, are repealed.
   Section 3.   The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
   Section 4.   Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, shall be guilty of a Class 2
Misdemeanor and punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), shall be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than thirty (30)
days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each act of violation and each day
upon which any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
The penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly
provided, shall apply to the amendment of any Code section whether or not such
penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty
prescribed above, the city may pursue other remedies such as abatement of
nuisances, injunctive relief, and revocation of licenses or permits.
   Section 5.   Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in the form as
to indicate the intention of the common council to make the same a part of the
Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the
Code includes the additions and amendments.
   Section 6.   Ordinances adopted after November 15, 2010, that amend or refer
to ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if
they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
This Ordinance, and the Code of Ordinances adopted and enacted hereby, shall be
in full force and effect twenty days from and after passage, approval, and
publication of this Ordinance.
DATED this 19th day of October, 2010.
City of Winner                     Attest:
Jody Brozik /s/                   Chandra Weidner /s/
Jody Brozik, Mayor                  Chandra Weidner, Finance Officer
                                                                                             
First Reading:         October 5, 2020
Second Reading:         October 19, 2020
Passage and approval:   October 19, 2020
Publication:            October 21, 2020
For any public notice that is published one time:
Published once at the approximate cost of ___________.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Rules of construction
   
10.03   Catchlines of sections
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Reference to other sections
   
10.07   Reference to offices
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Powers to enact, amend or repeal ordinances and resolutions; generally
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.13   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.14   Publication and effect
   
10.15   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.16   Corporate limits
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature, as revised, codified,
rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles, chapters
and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Winner Code”, for which
designation “Winner Code of Ordinances” or “codified ordinances” may be
substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(Prior Code, § 1.01.01)
§ 10.02 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code, the following rules shall be observed and
the following definitions shall apply, unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council.
   (A)   Generally. The provisions of this code shall be liberally construed to
affect the purposes expressed therein or implied from the expression thereof.
In case of doubt or ambiguity in the meaning of such provisions, the general
shall yield to the particular. Reference for interpretation and construction
shall tend to further the accomplishment of the elimination of the particular
mischiefs for which the provisions were enacted. Words shall be construed in
their common and usual significance unless the contrary is clearly indicated.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
      (1)   Acts by assistants. Wherever in this code any act is required to be
done by an officer in the line of his or her general duties or by a department
head or inspector, such shall be construed to permit the doing of such act by
the agent or subordinate of such person; provided that the agent or subordinate
is duly authorized and duly qualified to perform such act. Such rule shall
apply also to license holders, where such act is not otherwise required to be
performed personally by such person, either by specific law or by the nature of
such act.
      (2)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (3)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding or thing shall have
reference to a municipality concerned or affected.
      (4)   Variations in punctuation; typographical errors; and the like. No
variation in punctuation, either formal or informal, consistent or not, shall
affect the validity of this code, nor shall obvious or apparent defects in
spelling or typography be construed as to invalidate any portion hereof, so
long as the purpose and intent of the section is clear.
(Prior Code, § 1.01.02)
Statutory reference:
   General terms descriptive of an officer, act, proceeding and the like, see
SDCL § 9-1-1
§ 10.03 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and
shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of
the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1.01.06)
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Winner, Tripp County, South Dakota.
   CODE or THIS CODE. The Winner Municipal Code in its entirety, including each
and every section thereof. The entire CODE is intended by the Council to
constitute an ordinance in revision of the ordinances of the city, within the
meaning of SDCL §§ 9-19-16 and 9-19-17.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time in which any act provided by this code or
other ordinance is to be done is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last is a holiday and then it also is excluded.
Fractions of a day are to be disregarded in computations which include more
than one day, and involve no questions of priority.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Winner, Tripp County, South Dakota.
   COUNTY. The County of Tripp, South Dakota.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   ELECTOR(S) or QUALIFIED ELECTOR(S). Voter(s).
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   GOVERNING BODY. The board of trustees, the board of commissioners or the
common council, as the case may be, of a municipality concerned or affected.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   LOT. Includes PARCEL or TRACT OF LAND.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   MAY. A permissible reference.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. All cities and towns organized under
the laws of this state but shall not include any other political subdivisions.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   OATH. Includes an affirmation, and the words “swear” and “sworn” shall be
equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed”.
   ORDINANCE. A permanent legislative act within the limits of its powers of
the governing body of a municipality.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   OWNER. As used in this code relating to local improvements, the grantee in
the last deed of conveyance of any lot or parcel of land recorded in the office
of the register of deeds of the county or counties in which the municipality is
located, or his or her heirs or successors.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to associations, companies,
corporations, firms, partnerships, organizations and bodies politic and
corporate as well as to individuals and any other legal entities, or any agent
or employee thereof.
   PUBLICATION.
      (1)   Any requirement for publication shall mean publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality concerned or affected, if any; but if
none, then, in a legal newspaper published in such municipality, if any; but if
none, then, in any legal newspaper which serves such municipality, except as
provided by SDCL § 9-13-13.
      (2)   Personal service either within or without the state upon the person
affected thereby by delivery of a copy of a notice required to be published
shall be equivalent to the required PUBLICATION.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   RESOLUTION. Any determination, decision or direction of the governing body
of a municipality of a temporary or special character for the purpose of
initiating, effecting, or carrying out its administrative duties and functions.
(SDCL § 9-19-1)
   SDCL. South Dakota Codified Laws.
   SHALL. A mandatory reference.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write, his
or her name being written near such mark, and written by a person who writes
his or her own name as a witness.
   STATE or THIS STATE. The State of South Dakota.
   STREET. Includes AVENUE.
(SDCL § 9-1-1)
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes typewriting and typewritten, printing and
printed, except in the case of signatures, and where the words are used by way
of contrast to typewriting and printing. WRITING may be made in any manner,
except that when a person entitled to require the execution of a writing
demands that it be made with ink, it must be so made.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 1.01.09)
§ 10.06 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this local government exercising the powers,
duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer
of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.09 POWERS TO ENACT, AMEND OR REPEAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; GENERALLY.
   Every municipality may enact, make, amend, revise or repeal all such
ordinances, resolutions and regulations as may be proper and necessary to carry
into effect the powers granted thereto.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this code, nor in the ordinance adopting this
code, shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect in any manner:
      (1)   Any ordinance or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for
the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence
of the city’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
      (4)   Any right or franchise granted by the city;
      (5)   Any budget or appropriation ordinance;
      (6)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (7)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (8)   Any ordinance adopted after the effective date of this code;
      (9)   Any ordinance relating to the annual tax levies; or
      (10)   Any special ordinance.
   (B)   All such ordinances are hereby saved from repeal and recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
in this code.
(Prior Code, § 1.01.07)
§ 10.12 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoined and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to code.
      (1)   (a)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be
made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of
this code in the following language:
   “That § _________ of the City of Winner Municipal Code, South Dakota, is
hereby amended to read as follows: . . . .”
         (b)   The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
      (2)   (a)   If a new section not existing in the code is to be added, the
following language shall be used:
   “That the Municipal Code of Winner, South Dakota, is hereby amended by
adding a section, to be numbered § _________, which said section reads as
follows: . . . .”
         (b)   The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(Prior Code, § 1.01.10)
   (B)   Supplementation of code; generally.
      (1)   Supplements to this code shall be prepared and printed whenever
authorized or directed by the Council. A supplement to the code shall include
all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the
period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the code. The
pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the
code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or
partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have
been inserted, the code will be current through the date of the adoption of the
latest ordinance included in the supplement.
      (2)   In the preparation of a supplement to this code, all portions of
the code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the
omission thereof from reprinted pages.
      (3)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
         (a)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
         (b)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement and make changes in
such catchlines, headings and titles;
         (c)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
         (d)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning
to “this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “§§ _________ to _________” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code);
         (e)   Provide citation references to previous city ordinances and
state codes below sections;
         (f)   Number pages consecutively per chapter; and
         (g)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(Prior Code, § 1.01.11)
§ 10.14 PUBLICATION AND EFFECT.
   This code shall be printed and published in book form and shall take effect
as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1.01.08)
§ 10.15 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.16 CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The corporate limits of the city are hereby declared to be such as have
heretofore been, and shall hereafter be legally established and amended by law
and ordinances of the city as shown on the official map thereof on file in the
office of the City Finance Officer, which such map is incorporated in this code
by reference and adopted as the official map showing the boundaries and limits
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1.01.04)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever in this code or any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited or
is made or declared to be unlawful, or an offense, or wherever in such code or
ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, any
person who shall be convicted of any such violation shall be fined not more
than $500 or imprisoned in the county jail not longer than 30 days, or shall
receive both such fine and imprisonment. Each day in which a violation of this
code or other ordinance continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1.01.05) (Ord. 863, passed - -)
CHAPTER 11: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
11.01   Definitions
§ 11.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is left unattended on any
public street, alley, public place or parking lot within the city for a longer
period than 48 hours without the owner or person in charge notifying the City
Police Department and making arrangements for the parking of such motor
vehicle. However, a motor vehicle is not abandoned when it is parked next to a
home where the occupant or owner of said motor vehicle is living or visiting.
The above definition of an ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is intended to apply to
those motor vehicles that have been abandoned by the owner, person in charge or
occupant thereof.
   ACROBATIC FLYING. Any intentional aircraft maneuver or stunt not necessary
to air navigation or operation of aircraft in such manner as to endanger human
life or safety by the performance of unusual or dangerous maneuvers.
   AIRCRAFT. Any aeroplane, airplane, gasbag, flying machine, balloon, any
contrivance now known, or hereafter invented, used or designed for navigation
or flight in the air.
   AIRPORT. The Winner Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the air
space required for the flight of aircraft in landing to taking off at the
airport or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES. Any engine driven vehicle of a type which utilizes at
least two wheels and is designed for the purpose of off highway traffic, but
does not include duly licensed four-wheel drive vehicles or duly licensed
motorcycles or motorbikes.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the City Engineer’s interpretation of any
provision of this code of ordinances or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   ARSD.  The Administrative Rules of South Dakota.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street upon which through traffic is permitted.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. The service tier, which includes the retransmission of
local broadcast signals.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons or property.
   BUILDING CODE. The Uniform Building Code promulgated by the International
Conference of Building Officials, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (one and one-half meters) outside the interface of the building wall.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The City Health Officer, the Fire Chief, Building
Inspector or any other city official authorized by the city jurisdiction with
the enforcement of this code.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer to
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Any structure, public or private, that is adapted for
occupancy for:
      (1)   Transaction of business;
      (2)   Rendering of professional services;
      (3)   Amusement;
      (4)   The display, sale or storage of goods, wares or merchandise; or
      (5) The performance of work or labor, including, but not limited in its
application to:   
         (a)   Hotels, rooming and apartment houses;
         (b)   Office buildings;
         (c)   Public buildings;
         (d)   Stores;
         (e)   Theaters;
         (f)   Markets;
         (g)   Restaurants;
         (h)   Grain elevators;
         (i)   Abattoirs;
         (j)   Warehouses;
         (k)   Work shops;
         (l)   Factories; and
         (m)   All out buildings, sheds, barns and other structures and
premises used for business purposes.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street when 50% or more of
the frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by
buildings in use for business.
   CABLE TELEVISION RECEPTION SERVICE. The delivery by the grantee to
television receivers (or any other suitable type of electronic terminal or
receiver) of the electronic signals and other communications services carried
over the system.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CABLE SYSTEM. A system utilizing certain
electronic and other components that deliver various communications services to
subscribing members of the public.
   CITY. The City of Winner, Tripp County, South Dakota.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. The use of any aircraft for hire, aerial
photography, rental of space for aircraft storage, for crop spraying or
dusting, flight training activity, aircraft charter and taxi, air ambulance
service, aircraft engine and accessory maintenance, including sale of parts for
engines and airframes and sale of accessories, aircraft rental and sales, and
aircraft storage, gasoline and lubricant sales.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Winner, Tripp County, South Dakota.
   CROSSWALK. That part of a street designated or set apart as a crosswalk from
one side of a street to the other for the use of pedestrians.
   CURB. The extreme edge or lateral boundary of a roadway whether marked by
curbing or not so marked.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or structure deemed to be dangerous under
the provisions of §§
151.055 through
151.093 of this code of ordinances.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operation.
   DRIVER. The rider, driver or leader of a horse, and the driver or operator
of a vehicle.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or
contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent
or sale for which the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum,
the installation of utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads, and the construction of streets) is completed before June 21,
1988.
   EXPANSION TO EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring of concrete
pads, or the construction of streets).
   FCC. Federal Communications Commission.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land area from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Insurance Administration, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazards have been designated as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood hazard
boundary-floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   GARBAGE, SANITATION. All putrescible wastes, except sewage and body wastes,
including vegetable wastes, animal offal and carcasses of dead animals, but
excluding recognizable industrial by-products, and shall include all such
substances from all public and private establishments and from all residences.
   GARBAGE, SEWER. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   GENITAL PARTS. See SEXUAL.
   GRANTEE. Midcontinent Cable Systems Company of South Dakota or anyone who
succeeds Midcontinent Cable Systems Company of South Dakota.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor unusable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage purposes is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   HOUSING CODE. The Uniform Housing Code promulgated by the International
Conference of Building Officials, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INSPECTOR. The Building and Zoning Inspector or agent who performs under any
zoning or building ordinances of the city.
   JUNK. Consists of any two or more junked motor vehicles as defined in this
section, deteriorated, wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled mobile
homes, trailers, boats, machinery, refrigerators, washing machines and other
appliances, furniture, building materials, plumbing fixtures, tires, plastic,
wood, wastepaper, concrete rubble, green hides or other articles or things
which from their worn condition are rendered useless for the purpose in which
they were made.
   JUNK DEALERS. Any person, firm or corporation engaged in business as a
dealer or trader in junk, as defined in this section.
   JUNK YARD. Any area, lot or location where two or more junked vehicles,
deteriorated, wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled mobile homes,
trailers, boats, machinery, refrigerators, washing machines and other
appliances, furniture, building materials, plumbing fixtures, tires, plastic,
wood, wastepaper, concrete rubble, green hides or other articles are loaded or
stored.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed
thereto both a valid state license plate or plates, or the condition of which
is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperable or discarded.
   LANDING AREA. The area of airport used for the landing, taking off or
taxiing of aircraft.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any employee or officer of the state or any
political subdivision thereof and who is responsible for the prevention and
detection of crime and the enforcement of the criminal or highway traffic laws
of the state or the city, within the city.
   LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES. Any material which is composed predominantly of
any of the following hydrocarbons, or mixtures of the same: propane; propylene;
butane (normal butane and isobutane); and butylenes.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel on
the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf
carts, campers and trailers.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. A structure for which the start of construction commenced
on or after June 21, 1988.
   NEW MOBILE HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent or sale for which the
construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which the mobile home is to
be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and the construction of
streets) is completed on or after June 21, 1988.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any structure, tree or use of land which does not conform
to regulations prescribed in the zoning regulations or an amendment thereto, as
of the effective date of such regulations.
   OCCUPANT. The individual or partnership who, or the corporation that, has
the use of or occupies any building, either residence or commercial, or a part
of a portion thereof, whether the actual owner, tenant or sub-tenant. In the
case of vacant buildings, residences or commercial, or any vacant portion of
the building, the owner, agent or other person having custody of said building
shall have the responsibility of an OCCUPANT of said building.
   OWNER. The actual owner of the building, individual, partnership or
corporation, the agent of the owner in charge of said building, the person to
whom any rental upon said building is paid. In the case of building leased
under agreement whereby the lessee is responsible for maintenance and repairs,
the lessee will in such cases also be considered as the OWNER for the purpose
of this code of ordinances.
   PAWNBROKER.
      (1)   Any person who:
         (a)   Engages in the business of lending money on the deposit or
pledge of personal property, other than choses in action, securities or
evidence of indebtedness; or
         (b)   Purchases personal property with an expressed or implied
agreement or understanding to sell it back at a stipulated price.
      (2)   Any PAWNBROKER may effect the purchase of secondhand personal
property for resale purposes under the terms of this code of ordinances by
acquiring any pawn ticket of his or her own issued by transfer.
   PERMIT. A permit issued under the authority of the city to carry on any or
all of the commercial aeronautical activities.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, “7” has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of 10.
   PREMISES. A lot or parcel of land, improved or unimproved, parking areas
thereon, walkways and sidewalks.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city that is privately owned
and is not public property as defined in this section.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley or highway which shall include the entire
width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the
purposes of vehicle travel and shall also mean any other publicly owned
property or facility.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   REFUSE. Includes all non-putrescible wastes.
   REMOVAL AGENCY. The police department of the city or any public body,
private or non-profit organization which shall be authorized by the city to
remove and salvage abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, junked or
partially dismantled motor vehicles.
   RESIDENCE BUILDING. Any structure which is used for the housing and living
quarters for not more than one family.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street not comprising a
business district, when the frontage thereon for a distance of 300 or more feet
is more than 50% occupied by dwellings.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway, improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SECONDHAND GOODS DEALER.
      (1)   Any person, other than a pawnbroker or dealer in precious metals
and precious gems, who purchases, collects, trades, sells or deals in the
following secondhand goods:
         (a)   Business machines;
         (b)   Tape recorders and tapes;
         (c)   All radio transmitters and receivers;
         (d)   Musical instruments;
         (e)   Cameras and camera accessories;
         (f)   Power tools;
         (g)   Sporting goods;
         (h)   Stereos, stereo equipment and records;
         (i)   Tools and tool boxes;
         (j)   Television sets;
         (k)   Weapons;
         (l)   Bicycles;
         (m)   Radios;
         (n)   Microwave ovens; and
         (o)   Jewelry.
      (2)   This definition shall exempt the following transactions:
         (a)   Any person selling new, unused articles, and any receiving or
taking in used articles or trade from the purchasers of the new articles
against the purchase price of said new articles which are sold for their market
values;
         (b)   Any person collecting antique items for personal use only;
         (c)   Casual and occasional sales of used household goods by the owner
thereof to the public, on a non-receiving basis, if the seller, at time of
sale, is not engaged for profit in the business of selling goods of that or a
similar nature; this category includes those sales commonly referred to as
“garage sales”;
         (d)   Any person dealing exclusively in the resale of used
automobiles;
         (e)   Any person that operates a junk yard for wrecked automobiles;
         (f)   Transactions involving goods sold on consignment; and
         (g)   Transactions in secondhand goods at stores or events sponsored
by non-profit corporations or associations or fraternal or religious
organizations.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEXUAL. The genitals, pubic area, anus or perineum of any person, or the
vulva of a female.
   SIDEWALK. A strip of property lying in front of and between the curb line
and property line of the adjoining or abutting lot, piece or parcel of land
within the city.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any engine driven vehicle of a type which utilizes sled type
runners, wheels, or skis with an endless belt tread or similar means of contact
with the surface upon which it is operated.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not as part of the main structure. For a structure (other
than a mobile home) without a basement or poured footings, the START OF
CONSTRUCTION includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure
or any part thereof on its piling or foundation. For mobile homes not within a
mobile home parks or mobile home subdivisions, START OF CONSTRUCTION is the
date on which the construction of facilities for servicing the site on which
the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the construction of
streets, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and
installation of utilities) is completed.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   STREET. Any highway, avenue, boulevard, alley or other road, square or
public place open to public travel by vehicles, motor or otherwise.
   STREET INTERSECTION. The part of the street where a street joins another at
an angle, whether it crossed the other street or not, and shall include the
full width of the street between curb lines, extended, of the intersecting
streets.
   STRUCTURE. Any objects constructed or installed by humans, including, but
without limitation, buildings, towers, smoke stacks and overhead transmission
lines and radio antenna.
   SUBSCRIBERS. Those persons contracting to receive cable television reception
services.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, construction or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not the alteration
affects the external dimensions, or the structure. The term does not, however,
include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of wastewater facilities and/or of
wastewater treatment works and/or of water pollution control of the city or his
or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   UTILITY SUPERVISOR. The duly appointed supervisor, or sanitary officer, or
his or her duly authorized representative.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this code
of ordinances that permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by
this code of ordinances where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary
hardship.
   VEHICLE OPERATOR. Every person who operates or who is in actual physical
control of a motorized vehicle.
   VEHICLE OWNER. Any person, other than a lien holder, having the property in
or title to a motorized vehicle and entitled to the use and possession thereof.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATER. From the city water supply system.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 1.02.01) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 747, passed - -)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   ELECTED OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY EMPLOYEES
      
33.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   CORRECTIONS ENTERPRISES
      
35.   ELECTIONS
      
36.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Travel expenses; rates
   
30.02   Finance Officer pre-authorization of expenditures
   
30.03   Authority to sign checks on city bank accounts
   
30.04   Fees for insufficient funds payment
Retirement System
   
30.15   Participating municipality
   
30.16   Membership
   
30.17   Salary deduction
   
30.18   Matching funds
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 TRAVEL EXPENSES; RATES.
   (A)   The city will adopt and follow the rate schedule set by the state for
travel expenses for officials, employees and volunteer fire personnel while
representing the city. This will be updated annually as the state adjusts each
year on July 1.
   (B)   No elected official, employee or volunteer fire personnel shall
receive any remuneration while performing any services for the city within a
radius of ten miles of the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 2.06.01) (Ord. 336, passed - -; Ord. 400, passed - -; Ord. 425,
passed - -; Ord. 429, passed - -; Ord. 482, passed - -; Ord. 507, passed - -;
Ord. 637, passed - -; Ord. 667, passed - -; Ord. 700, passed - -; Ord. 773,
passed - -)
§ 30.02 FINANCE OFFICER PRE-AUTHORIZATION OF EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   In accordance with SDCL § 9-23-1, the city hereby authorizes
prepayment of expenditures not to exceed $300,000 biweekly.
   (B)   This prepayment authorization is for the following types of
expenditures: administrative (such as sales taxes, payroll, payroll taxes,
employee benefits, deposit refunds, deposit returns, reissued checks, and
corrected checks); costs owed to the U.S. Post Office for mailings; 911
Internet; payments issued in exchange for items accepted for recycling;
payments issued to replenish the cash drawer at the recycling center; and
Register of Deeds’ fees. Additionally, permits that allow for the operations of
the city are also included under this prepayment authorization to ensure the
seamless functioning of municipal services.
   (C)   All authorized prepayments will be paid through a check signed by the
Mayor, the President of the City Council or the Vice President of the City
Council and the Finance Officer or an authorized Deputy Finance Officer.
   (D)   In addition to the foregoing, all service contracts that have been
previously approved, sales taxes, and any other expenditure that has been
authorized by a vote of the City Council may be paid through automated
withdrawals.
(Ord. 923, passed 4-1-2019; Ord. 1009, passed 9-20-2021; Ord. 1049, passed 5-1-
2023; Ord. 1086, passed 10-21-2024)
§ 30.03 AUTHORITY TO SIGN CHECKS ON CITY BANK ACCOUNTS.
   All checks issued on a city bank account shall be issued under two
signatures, namely: the Mayor, the President of the City Council or the Vice
President of the City Council, and the Finance Officer or the Deputy Finance
Officer, provided, however, that certain special accounts such as prisoner
funds accounts have different signature requirements established by resolution.
(Ord. 1075, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 30.04 FEES FOR INSUFFICIENT FUNDS PAYMENTS.
   The Finance Officer may impose and collect a fee for any payment made to the
city and returned due to insufficient funds as provided for in SDCL § 57A-3-
421. The amount of the fee shall be the maximum amount allowed under SDCL §
57A-3-421 unless the City Council shall set a lower amount by resolution. This
insufficient funds fee shall apply to all methods and classes of payments made
to the city, whether checks, money orders, ACH payments or otherwise, which are
returned for insufficient funds or account closed. The collection made by the
Finance Officer shall include any applicable sales tax on such fees.
(Ord. 1072, passed 4-1-2024)
RETIREMENT SYSTEM
§ 30.15 PARTICIPATING MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   Effective since June 1, 1974, the city is a participating municipality
in the state retirement system, as provided by law, for the purpose of
including full-time police officers and full-time general employees in its
employee retirement system.
   (B)   As a participating municipality, the retirement system benefits for
city employees are in accordance with the state retirement system, as of the
effective date of this section, and will be changed or updated as required.
(Prior Code, § 2.05.01) (Ord. 440, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 30.16 MEMBERSHIP.
   All full-time police officers and full-time general employees of the city
shall be included in the membership of the retirement system.
(Prior Code, § 2.05.02) (Ord. 440, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 30.17 SALARY DEDUCTION.
   (A)   The City Finance Officer is hereby directed to deduct 8% of the
salaries paid to full-time police officers and jailers, and to deduct 6% of the
salaries paid to full-time general employees, and forward the same to the
retirement system.
   (B)   The deductions are to be made from each and every participating
member’s salary on each and every payroll and for each and every payroll period
subsequent to the city’s participation in the retirement system.
(Prior Code, § 2.05.03) (Ord. 440, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 860,
passed - -)
§ 30.18 MATCHING FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Finance Officer is hereby authorized to pay from city funds:
      (1)   Eight percent matching funds for full-time police officers and
jailers; and
      (2)   Six percent matching funds for full-time general employees.
   (B)   These matching funds are to be forwarded to the retirement system,
together with the payment of the employees’ contributions as provided in §
30.17.
(Prior Code, § 2.05.04) (Ord. 440, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 860,
passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Representation of wards
   
31.02   Mayor term and election
   
31.03   Board of Adjustment
   
31.04   Ethical obligations
Meetings
   
31.20   Regular meetings
   
31.21   Special meetings
   
31.22   Adjourned meetings
   
31.23   Open meetings
   
31.24   Agenda
   
31.25   Consent agenda
   
31.26   Executive sessions
   
31.27   Presiding officer and Council organization
   
31.28   Call to order
   
31.29   Roll call
   
31.30   Quorum
   
31.31   Compel attendance
   
31.32   Reading of minutes
   
31.33   Mayor’s vote
   
31.34   Silence as affirmative vote
   
31.35   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
31.36   Compensation for Mayor and Council
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 REPRESENTATION OF WARDS.
   There shall be two representatives from each ward to serve two-year terms
and elected in alternate years.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.01) (Ord. 736, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Area description, describes three wards, see §
35.01 
§ 31.02 MAYOR TERM AND ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected by the registered city voters for a two-year term
in the even-numbered years.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.02) (Ord. 736, passed - -)
§ 31.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall serve as the Board of Adjustment. The Board of
Adjustment is hereby designated to hear and render a decision on all requests
for variances, conditional uses and zoning appeals. The Board of Adjustment
may, in specific cases to avoid unwarranted hardship which constitutes an
unreasonable deprivation of use as distinguished from the mere grant of a
privilege, make upon an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the full membership
of the Board of Adjustment, conditional uses or grant variances to the terms of
this code of ordinances, subject to appropriate conditions or safeguards being
adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall designate an individual to act as Secretary to
the Board of Adjustment when acting in zoning cases, but shall take no part in
the deliberations. Meetings of the Board of Adjustment acting in zoning cases
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times, as the
Board shall determine. Such Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (C)   All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the public.
Those meetings designated as public hearings shall allow for testimony from all
interested parties. The Board, acting in zoning cases, shall keep minutes of
its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the City Finance Officer and shall be a public record.
The Board of Adjustment, acting in zoning cases, shall adopt from time to time,
subject to the approval of the City Council, such rules and regulations as it
may deem necessary to carry the appropriate provisions of the zoning
regulations into effect.
(Prior Code, § 2.02.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 31.04 ETHICAL OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Code of ethics.
      (1)   Every elected municipal official shall exercise ordinary and
reasonable care in the performance of his or her duties, exhibiting honest and
good faith, and using the care, skill, common sense and informed judgment that
a reasonably prudent person would use in a similar situation.
      (2)   Every elected municipal official is elected to a position of public
trust toward the city, its taxpayers, residents, and employees. Thus, when
conducting the business of the city, every elected municipal official must
avoid and disclose all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of
interest, especially those potential conflicts of interest described in SDCL §§
6-1-1 and 6-1-2. In that regard:
         (a)   An elected municipal official shall not perform any labor, or
furnish equipment or supplies to the city for compensation. He or she shall not
be interested directly in any contract with the city which may have
remunerative awards to the elected official.
         (b)   1.   No elected municipal official may participate in discussing
or vote on any issue in which the elected official has a conflict of interest.
Each elected official shall decide if any potential conflict of interest
requires such member to be disqualified from participating in discussion or
voting. However, no elected official may participate in discussing or voting on
an issue if the following circumstances apply:
               a.   The elected official has a direct pecuniary interest in the
matter before the City Council; or
               b.   At least two-thirds of the City Council votes that an
elected official has an identifiable conflict of interest that should prohibit
the member from discussing and voting on a specific matter.
            2.   If an elected municipal official with a direct pecuniary
interest participates in discussion or votes on a matter before the City
Council, that official's vote will be invalidated.
      (3)   Every elected municipal official shall maintain the confidentiality
of all matters pertaining to the city in accordance with the South Dakota open
meetings laws, executive session laws, and other related laws and regulations.
      (4)   Recognizing that honest differences of opinion are natural and
healthy, every elected municipal official shall work with other elected
officials in a spirit of harmony and cooperation and in the best interest of
the city, in spite of differences that may arise during the resolution of
issues before the Council. Every elected official shall respect and abide by
the decisions of the Council and shall not undermine or diminish decisions
reached by a majority of the Council.
      (5)   Every elected municipal official shall confine his or her official
efforts to those that apply to his or her office. Specifically, Council members
shall confine their actions in the form of policy making, ordinance enacting,
authorizing action by city officers and employees, and evaluation; and the
Mayor is the executive elected official who is to confine his or her actions to
those of conducting meetings, executing decisions and agreements of the
Council, and overseeing the general administration of the city's affairs
through cooperation with and assistance to the City Finance Officer. Every
elected municipal official shall recognize that it is his or her responsibility
not to run the day-to-day affairs of the city, but to work collectively with
all other elected officials in cooperation with the Finance Officer to ensure
that the city is well run by the implementation of proper policies, procedures
and decision-making.
      (6)   Every elected municipal official shall recognize and adhere to the
tenet that authority rests only with the City Council assembled in a meeting,
and not with any individual elected official. Each elected official shall make
no personal promise nor take any individual action which may compromise the
Council or the city. Each decision rendered by the City Council shall be
reached after discussing all relevant aspects of the issue with the other
elected officials in a meeting in compliance with the South Dakota open
meetings laws in effect at the time of the meeting. Individual members of the
City Council, outside of regularly constituted meetings of the City Council
shall have no authority to make decisions, to commit the Council to actions, to
inquire into issues beyond those of which any member of the public may properly
inquire, or to supervise or direct day-to-day city activities.
      (7)   Every elected municipal official shall strive to work collectively
with the other elected officials to operate the city in the best interests of
the city, its residents, its taxpayers, and its employees.
      (8)   Every elected municipal official shall uphold and enforce all
applicable laws, rules, regulations, and court orders affecting the city,
including the ordinances and policies of the city.
      (9)   Every elected municipal official shall refer all complaints through
the proper "chain of command" within the city to determine if an informal and/
or administrative solution can be obtained. In the event an informal and/or
administrative solution is not obtained, then the issue may be brought before
the City Council for resolution after consideration by the appropriate
committee, but no individual elected official should otherwise become involved
in the resolution of any matter that may thereafter come before the entire City
Council for official action.
      (10)   Every elected municipal official shall respect and treat
professionally all officers and employees of the city. No individual elected
official shall pressure, threaten, or intimidate, directly or indirectly, any
officer or employee, or any other elected official to do a certain thing or act
a certain way.
      (11)   Every elected municipal official shall comply with this code of
ethics. Failure to abide by this code of ethics is a breach of the public
trust.
   (B)   Sanctions.
      (1)   If an elected municipal official is accused of violating this code
of ethics, the City Council may investigate the allegation. If the
investigation reveals a possible violation, the Council may conduct a hearing
in executive session after giving notice to the elected official accused of
violating the code of ethics. If, after such hearing, the Council determines
that a violation has occurred, the City Council shall have the authority to
impose one of the following sanctions:
         (a)   With the concurrence of a majority of the City Council, to
privately reprimand, in executive session, the elected official who violates
the code of ethics, in which case no official record of the matter will be
kept;
         (b)   With the concurrence of a majority of the City Council, to
privately reprimand, in executive session, the elected official who violates
the code of ethics, but to maintain an official written record of the matter;
         (c)   With the concurrence of a majority of the City Council, to issue
a public censure, in open session following the hearing, to the elected
official who violates the code of ethics, which shall be made a part of the
minutes of the City Council; or
         (d)   With regard only to a member of the City Council, pursuant to
SDCL § 9-8-5, with the concurrence of two-thirds of the City Council, the
Council may expel the Council member and declare a vacancy in that office. The
City Council does not, however, have the statutory authority to expel the
elected Mayor from office.
      (2)   In any case, if the City Council determines it to be appropriate,
in addition to and apart from any one of the foregoing sanctions, the City
Council shall have the authority to disavow by official resolution the improper
acts or statements by an individual elected municipal official, the action to
be taken in open session and placed upon the minutes of the City Council.
      (3)   The City Council recognizes that outside the scope of this section,
removal of an elected municipal official may only be done for a reason provided
by law, and only through such process as the law defines, including
particularly cases of misfeasance or other applicable violations of South
Dakota law.
(Ord. 830, passed 3-18-2013)
MEETINGS
§ 31.20 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The City Council shall hold regular meetings on the first and third Monday
of each and every month of the year at the hour of 6:30 p.m. in Council
chambers located in city hall. Whenever a regularly scheduled meeting of the
Council falls upon a day designated by law as a legal or national holiday, then
such meeting shall be held on the first workday following that holiday at 6:30
p.m.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.21 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor shall call special meetings of the Council whenever the Mayor
believes public business requires it, or at the express written consent of any
two Council members. Notice of such special meeting shall be given to all
Council members at least 24 hours before such special meeting is held either
personally or by notice through facsimile, electronic mail, or telephone unless
a waiver of such notice is obtained either before or at such special meeting.
The notice required under this section shall state the date and hour of the
meeting and the purpose for which such meeting is called. No such business
shall be conducted except as stated in the notice.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.22 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Council may adjourn a meeting to a later date, in which event the adjourned
meeting shall be considered as a part of the first meeting.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.23 OPEN MEETINGS.
   In compliance with state law, Council meetings shall be open to the public.
It shall be unlawful for any person, not a member of the Council, to make any
disturbance or interfere in any way with the deliberations of the Council at
meetings. No persons, not a member of the Council, shall address or deliver any
remarks to the Council at such meetings without first asking for the privilege
of doing so. The city offers a public input opportunity at every meeting
pursuant to its policy.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.24 AGENDA.
   Prior to a Council meeting, the Finance Officer shall receive all reports,
communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract documents or other matters to
be addressed during the Council meeting. The Finance Officer shall arrange a
list of such matters according to the order of business and provide each
Council member, Mayor, and City Attorney with a copy of the agenda prior to the
Council meeting as far in advance of the meeting as time will permit but at
least 24 hours prior to the meeting.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.25 CONSENT AGENDA.
   The city hereby adopts the use of a consent agenda to ensure the efficiency
and effectiveness of meetings. Items that are expected to require no discussion
or debate may be placed on the meeting agenda under the heading “consent
agenda.” City Council members should review the consent agenda items prior to
the meeting on the expectation that no discussion will take place during the
Council meeting. Items may be moved out of the consent agenda section at the
request of any member of the Council prior to approval of the agenda. No motion
or vote of the Council is required with respect to a request to move an item
out of the consent agenda. When a member of the Council requests that an item
be moved out of the consent agenda section, the Mayor shall decide where to
place that item on the agenda. When an item on the consent agenda does not
qualify as a consent agenda item or is requested to be moved, that item shall
be moved out of the consent agenda and the rest of the items in that section
shall remain in the consent agenda. Approval of the agenda by the Council
constitutes approval of each of the items listed under the consent agenda
portion of the meeting. No separate vote to approve the consent agenda portion
is required. Minutes of the meeting will include the full text of any item
adopted under the consent agenda portion of the meeting.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.26 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   Council, by motion, may close meetings for executive sessions for purposes
permitted by state law. Upon exiting executive session, the Council shall
reconvene in open meeting to take such actions as may be appropriate.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.27 PRESIDING OFFICER AND COUNCIL ORGANIZATION.
   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer at all Council meetings. The City
Council, at its first regular meeting after the annual election, shall organize
by electing one of its members as President and one as Vice President. The
President and Vice President shall hold their respective offices for the
ensuing year. In the Mayor’s absence, the President shall be the presiding
officer of the Council. During any absence or temporary disability of the
Mayor, the President of the Council shall be acting Mayor and shall possess all
the power of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor and President of the
Council, the Vice President shall perform the presiding officer duties.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.28 CALL TO ORDER.
   The Mayor, or President or Vice President in the Mayor’s absence, shall take
the chair precisely at the hour appointed for the meeting and shall call the
Council to order.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.29 ROLL CALL.
   Before proceeding with City Council business, the Mayor shall call roll of
the members, and the names of those present shall be entered in the minutes by
the Finance Officer.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.30 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the members elected to the City Council shall constitute a
quorum at any regular or special meeting of the Council. In the absence of a
quorum, the presiding officer shall at the instance of any two members present,
compel the attendance of absent members.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.31 COMPEL ATTENDANCE.
   The City Council may compel the presence of absent members by sending the
Public Safety Commissioner, Chief of Police, or any police officer to require
their attendance. If any member refuses to attend or contact the Mayor after
being notified, the absent member shall state their reasons therefor to the
Council at its next meeting, and if the Council, excluding the member whose
refusal to attend is under consideration, unanimously deems such reasons
insufficient in light of all circumstances, the Council may impose such penalty
which in their discretion the case warrants.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.32 READING OF MINUTES.
   Unless a Council member requests a reading of the minutes, such minutes may
be approved without reading, provided that the Finance Officer has previously
furnished each member with a copy of the minutes. The minutes may appear on the
agenda in the consent agenda section.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.33 MAYOR’S VOTE.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council but shall be entitled
to vote only on any questions when there is a tie vote, excluding issues
relating to expenditures and passages of ordinances. The Mayor shall preserve
order and decide all questions of order subject to an appeal from the Council.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.34 SILENCE AS AFFIRMATIVE VOTE.
   Unless a Council member states they are abstaining from a vote, their
silence shall be recorded as an affirmative vote.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.35 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly Revised, as published by Scott, Foresman and
Company, shall govern the Council in its deliberation in cases not otherwise
provided for by ordinance, rule, or regulation.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 31.36 COMPENSATION FOR MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and Council members shall receive monthly compensation for their
service through attending meetings. A time sheet will be kept for every meeting
and approved by the Mayor. Compensation will be paid as follows:
   (A)   Council. For every regularly scheduled City Council meeting, Council
members will be compensated $120 per regular meeting for a total of $240 per
month. Council persons will additionally be compensated for attendance of their
respective appointed committee meetings at a rate of $60 per meeting, six
meetings per month, for a total of $360 total compensation per month. Should
public business require an additional meeting, or an additional meeting is
requested in writing by any two Council members, additional compensation will
be provided at the rate above for a special Council meeting ($120) or committee
meeting ($60).
   (B)   Mayor. For every regularly scheduled City Council meeting, the Mayor
will be compensated $150 per regular meeting for a total of $300 per month. The
Mayor will additionally be compensated for attendance of all committee meetings
at a rate of $30 per meeting, 20 meetings per month, for a total of $600 total
compensation per month. Should public business require an additional meeting,
or an additional meeting is requested in writing by any two Council persons,
additional compensation will be provided at the rate above for a special
Council meeting ($150) or committee meeting ($30).
   (C)   Compensation terms. Compensation will be paid only to eligible members
who attend a meeting. Failure to attend a meeting of the City Council will
result in no compensation for that meeting. Trading committee meetings between
Council persons is acceptable and encouraged. Only those attending a committee
meeting will receive compensation for that meeting.
(Ord. 945, passed 3-16-2020; Ord. 1025, passed 4-18-2022)
CHAPTER 32: CITY EMPLOYEES
Section
   
32.01   Finance Officer with administrative duties
   
32.02   Public Safety Commissioner with administrative duties
   
32.03   Public Works Director with administrative duties
   
32.04   City Engineer
   
32.05   Airport Manager
   
32.06   City Attorney
   
32.07   Assistant City Attorney
   
32.08   Zoning Administrator
§ 32.01 FINANCE OFFICER WITH ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES.
   (A)   The Council, pursuant to SDCL § 9-14-3 as amended, establishes the
office of City Finance Officer instead of an Auditor or Treasurer.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of the Council, a Finance
Officer with administrative duties, who shall perform such duties as outlined
in the job description as prescribed by the Council, pursuant to SDCL § 9-14-3.
   (C)   The Finance Officer, with administrative duties, in addition to having
the normal duties and responsibilities of a Finance Officer, shall be
responsible to the Mayor and Council for the proper administration of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.03.01) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 763, passed - -; Ord. 862,
passed - -; Ord. 937, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 32.02 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSIONER WITH ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of the Council, a Public Safety
Commissioner to manage and oversee the operations of the Police Department, the
Jail, the 911 Communications Department and the Code Enforcement Office. The
Public Safety Commissioner shall perform such duties, including administrative
duties pursuant to the job description, as prescribed by the Council, pursuant
to SDCL § 9-14-3.
(Prior Code, § 2.03.02) (Ord. 922, passed 3-18-2019; Ord. 937, passed 11-4-
2019)
§ 32.03 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR WITH ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of the Council, a Public Works
Director to manage and oversee the public works of the city as determined by
the Council, and who shall perform such duties, including administrative duties
pursuant to the job description, as prescribed by the Council, pursuant to SDCL
§ 9-14-3.
(Prior Code, § 2.03.03) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 866, passed - -; Ord. 937, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 32.04 CITY ENGINEER.
   The Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of the Council, a City Engineer,
whose duties shall include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Review all development permits to assure that the permit requirements
of this code of ordinances have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required;
   (C)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said whatever course so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (D)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
to which the new or substantially improved structures have been flood proofed;
   (E)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
to which the new or substantially improved structures have been flood proofed;
   (F)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the City
Engineer shall obtain certification from a registered professional engineer or
architect;
   (G)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the City Engineer shall make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in the code of ordinances;
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with division (F) above, the City Engineer shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data available from a federal, state or other
source, in order to administer the provisions of Chapter 152 of this code of
ordinances; and
   (I)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this section shall be
maintained in the office of the City Engineer and shall be open for public
inspection.
(Prior Code, § 2.03.04) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 32.05 AIRPORT MANAGER.
   (A)   It is understood the Manager will provide aeronautical services of a
private business nature other than the management of the airport. These
services will include aircraft maintenance and gasoline sales. In that regard
it is understood that the Manager is considered to be an employee or agent of
the city when he or she is engaged in activity directly related to the
management of the airport and for other services provided by him or her. Other
than for management, he or she shall not be considered an employee of the city.
   (B)   The Manager shall:
      (1)   Furnish management for the airport and program general duties
therefor;
      (2)   Represent the city in matters pertaining to the airport when
requested, attend all meetings relative to the operation of the airport and
attend any conference requested by the Mayor or the Airport Committee of the
city;
      (3)   Operate on a seven-day week basis from 8:00 a.m. until sundown, and
in case of necessity at any hour or hours;
      (4)   Supervise or provide supervision for the day-to-day maintenance of
the airport, buildings, grounds, hangar and the landing area;
      (5)   Check the airport lighting at least once a week or more often if
required, to determine if the runway lighting system is in good working order
and whether all light bulbs, light fixtures, win tee, obstruction markers and
airport marking beacon are functioning properly. The Manager shall make minor
repairs as found by his or her inspection to be necessary, and shall replace
burned-out light bulbs promptly; light bulbs are to be supplied by the city. He
or she shall notify the city of any repairs required that are of a major nature
and beyond his or her ability to repair, and request instructions as to how to
proceed to have the deficiency corrected. It shall be his or her duty to
analyze from time to time the runway lighting system performance record, and
advise the city of any repairs that should be made to the system, which are
revealed as a result of examination of the performance record;
      (6)   Maintain the turf and grounds as necessary on airport property not
leased to others. The city shall furnish the equipment for this maintenance;
      (7)   Be responsible for notifying the city when snow removal is
necessary. The Manager shall make frequent inspections of the landing area
during the wintertime, and shall promptly notify the city of drifting
conditions or other circumstances that require immediate attention;
      (8)   The Manager shall be responsible for snow removal from walkways,
paths, roadways and such now as may be immediately adjacent to and surrounding
the hangar. The intent of this division (B)(8) is to require the Manager, by
janitor service, to take care of such minor snow removal as he or she can
reasonably be expected to do by means of hand shoveling and which would
otherwise be uneconomical for the city to perform;
      (9)   (a)   Thoroughly clean (or cause to be cleaned) the hangar and
office, and keep same in a clean and livable condition at all times. The
restrooms in the terminal building shall be kept clean at all times and
supplied with the necessary facilities; and
         (b)   Windows shall be kept clean at all times.
      (10)   Be responsible for notifying the Federal Aviation Administration
promptly of all field conditions affecting the safe use of the airport;
      (11)   Cooperate with all federal, state and municipal bodies insofar as
all matters are concerned which are under their control;
      (12)   Consult with the city in all matters relating to proposals from
businesses to locate on the airport, and handle all correspondence and other
matters relating to such proposals as directed by the city;
      (13)   The Manager shall see that the premises are kept clean, neat, safe
and orderly at all times free of waste, rubbish, weeds and debris, and shall
mow the airport runway areas as often as is necessary:
         (a)   The Manager shall maintain and mow all of the premises with city
equipment, it being understood that the city will furnish the necessary water
and electricity for the operation of the runway facilities of the Municipal
Airport. The utilities used in the municipally owned buildings located thereon
shall be the responsibility of the Manager; and
         (b)   An inventory of all of the municipally owned tools and equipment
is the responsibility of the Manager. Said Manager is responsible for the
returning of the same to the city at the expiration of this said agreement or
any extension thereof and in as good condition as it is now, normal wear and
tear and damage by the elements excepted.
      (14)   The Manager will not purchase nor contract for any debts in the
name of the city without first obtaining specific approval thereof on proper
requisition;
      (15)   Said Manager agrees to obtain and pay for all licenses, permits,
approvals, fees or similar authorizations or changes required under federal,
state, local laws or ordinances insofar as the same are necessary to exercise
the conditions of this said agreement;
      (16)   The Manager will be responsible for all notams, reports, notices
or advice to pilots for all FAA and State Aeronautical Commission Publications
and shall see that any of such notams, reports, notices or advice to pilots is
given the widest possible circulation to all interested pilots;
      (17)   The Manager shall from time to time advise the city as to all
commercial and private plane activity at the airport;
      (18)   The Manager shall report all violations by commercial operators
and private pilots, to appropriate federal and state agencies and the Chief of
Police of the city; and
      (19)   The Manager shall procure premises liability insurance for the
shop where he or she intends to do his or her repair work, products liability
insurance for all products including, but not limited to, the sale of gasoline,
for repair and replacement work on aircraft, and for aircraft sales. This
coverage shall be for $300,000 per occurrence and $100,000 per person. The
Manager shall also procure hangarman’s liability insurance for $100,000 per
occurrence. The city shall be listed as additional insured on all of above said
insurance coverage and Manager shall deposit with the City Finance Officer a
certificate of above said insurance.
   (C)   The Manager shall provide the following services:
      (1)   Attendant on duty seven days a week from 8:00 a.m., local time,
until sundown, and in case of emergency or necessity at any hour or hours;
      (2)   Maintenance shop for aircraft mechanic;
      (3)   Sale of gasoline;
      (4)   Air ambulance service;
      (5)   Air taxi service;
      (6)   Aircraft rental; and
      (7)   Student instruction.
   (D)   The city shall not be liable for any negligence on the part of the
independent contractors or operators.
   (E)   The failure of the Manager to provide an attendant seven days a week
or to procure an independent operator to provide air ambulance and air taxi
service shall be deemed a material breach of this contract.
(Prior Code, § 2.03.05) (Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 32.06 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of the Council, a City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 2.03.06)
§ 32.07 ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY.
   The Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of the Council, an Assistant City
Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 2.03.07)
§ 32.08 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An administrative official, who shall be known as the Zoning
Administrator, shall be hired by the city to administer and enforce the zoning
regulations. The City Council may direct such other persons as may be needed to
assist the Administrator.
   (B)   If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of
this section are being violated, he or she shall notify, in writing the person
responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of
illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations or
structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any other action authorized by this section to ensure compliance with or
to prevent violation to its provisions. The Zoning Administrator shall report
all actions to the City Council at the next general meeting of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.03.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
CHAPTER 33: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
33.01   Establishment
   
33.02   Number of members; quorum
   
33.03   Appointed years
   
33.04   Chairperson of Planning Commission
   
33.05   Employees of Planning Commission
   
33.06   Information furnished by public officials
   
33.07   Expenditures
   
33.08   Preparation of comprehensive plan
   
33.09   Surveys and studies
   
33.10   Adoption of comprehensive plan
   
33.11   Public hearing
   
33.12   Vote requirement
   
33.13   Approval for construction
   
33.14   Submission and approval of improvement projects
   
33.15   Platting jurisdiction of municipality
   
33.16   Approval on platting of land
   
33.17   Time allowance
   
33.18   Dedication not accepted by approval of plat
   
33.19   Plat approval before being recorded
   
33.20   Approval after attachment of platting jurisdiction
   
33.21   Street construction
   
33.22   Buildings prohibited on unapproved streets
Fire Department
   
33.35   Creation
   
33.36   Membership
   
33.37   Fire Chief duties
   
33.38   Authority
   
33.39   Barricades
   
33.40   Fire Marshal
   
33.41   Offenses
 
   
33.99   Penalty
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a planning commission for the city which
shall be designated as City Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall keep a record of all proceedings,
including minutes, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if
absent or failure to vote indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be a public record
and be filed with the City Finance Officer within two days. The Planning
Commission shall adopt from time to time, subject to the approval of the City
Council, rules and regulations, as it may deem necessary for the conduct of its
affairs and to carry the appropriate provisions of this subchapter into effect.
The Commission shall be compensated for its service as determined by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.01) (Ord. 296, passed - -; Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 33.02 NUMBER OF MEMBERS; QUORUM.
   There shall be seven members appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
Council. A majority of the members constitutes a quorum to do business. When a
seat on the Planning Commission is vacant due to removal, resignation, death,
or by operation of law, the quorum consists of the majority of the remaining
members who are qualified to serve. Except where otherwise provided, a majority
of the quorum shall be sufficient to decide regular business.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.02) (Ord. 296, passed - -; Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 1062, passed 10-2-
2023)
§ 33.03 APPOINTED YEARS.
   The City Council shall appoint a Planning Commission, the total membership
of which shall be an uneven number. The term of each of the appointed members
of the Planning Commission shall be for a set period of time. When the Planning
Commission is first appointed, the lengths of the terms should be varied so
that no more than two terms shall expire in the same year.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.03) (Ord. 296, passed - -; Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 33.04 CHAIRPERSON OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall elect its Chairperson from among
its members for a term of one year with eligibility for re-election.
      (2)   The Chairperson may fill other offices as the Planning Commission
may create in a manner prescribed by the rules of such Commission.
   (B)   Meetings shall be regularly scheduled and held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Planning Commission may determine.
The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be
open to the public, except as provided by SDCL § 1-25-2.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.04) (Ord. 296, passed - -; Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 33.05 EMPLOYEES OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission may appoint such employees as it may seem necessary
for its work, whose appointment, promotion, demotion and removal shall be
subject to the same provisions of law, including civil service regulations, as
govern other corresponding civil employees of the municipality. The Commission
may also contract with city planners, engineers, architects and other
consultants as well as federal and state agencies for such services as it may
require, provided, that all contracts shall first be approved by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.05) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.06 INFORMATION FURNISHED BY PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All public officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning
Commission, within a reasonable time, such available information as it may
require for its work.
   (B)   The Commission, its members and employees, in the performance of its
functions, may enter upon any land, make examinations and surveys, place and
maintain necessary monuments and marks thereon.
   (C)   In general, the Commission shall have all such powers as may be
necessary to enable it to fulfill and perform its functions, promote municipal
planning to carry out all the purposes of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.06) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.07 EXPENDITURES.
   The expenditures of the Planning Commission, exclusive of those made from
funds received by gift, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the
purpose by the local legislative body, which shall provide the funds, equipment
and accommodations necessary for the Commission’s work.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.07) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.08 PREPARATION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   It shall be a function and duty of the Planning Commission to make and adopt
a plan for the physical development of the municipality, including any areas
outside of the boundary and within its planning jurisdiction which, in the
Commission’s judgment bear relation to the planning of the municipality. The
comprehensive plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts and descriptive
and explanatory matter, shall show the Commission’s recommendations for the
said physical development and may include, among other things, the general
location, character and extent of streets, bridges, viaducts, parks, parkways,
waterways and waterfront developments, playgrounds, airports and other public
ways, grounds, places and spaces; the general location of public schools, of
public buildings and other public property; a zoning ordinance for the
regulation of the height, area, build, location and use of private and public
structures and premises, and of population density as may be provided by law;
the general location and extent of public utilities and terminals, whether
publicly or privately owned, for water, light, power, heat, sanitation,
transportation, communication and other purposes; the acceptance, widening,
removal, extension, relocation, narrowing, vacation, abandonment or change of
use of any of the foregoing public ways, grounds, places, spaces, buildings,
properties, utilities or terminals; the general location, character layout, and
extent of community centers and neighborhood units, and the general character,
extent and layout of the replanning of blighted districts and slum areas. The
Commission may from time to time amend, extend or add to the plan or carry any
of the subject matter into greater detail.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.08) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.09 SURVEYS AND STUDIES.
   In the preparation of the comprehensive plan, the Planning Commission shall
make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of the existing conditions
and probable future growth of the municipality and its environs. The plan shall
be made with the purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted
and harmonious development of the municipality, which will, in accordance with
existing and future needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order,
convenience, prosperity or the general welfare, as well as efficiency and
economy in the process of development.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.09) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.10 ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Planning Commission shall adopt the comprehensive plan as a whole by a
single resolution, or, as the work of making the whole comprehensive plan
progresses, may from time to time adopt a part or parts thereof, any such part
to correspond generally with one or more of the functional subdivisions of the
subject matter of the plan.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.10) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.11 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Before adoption of the comprehensive plan or part thereof, the Planning
Commission shall hold at least one public hearing, notice of the time and place
of which shall be given at least ten days in advance by publication in a legal
newspaper of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.11) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.12 VOTE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The adoption of the plan or any part, amendment or additions, shall be
by resolution carried by the affirmative votes of not less than a majority of
all the members of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The resolution shall refer expressly to the maps, descriptive matter
and other matters intended by the Commission to form the whole or part of the
plan, and the action taken shall be recorded on the adopted plan or part
thereof, by the identifying signature of the Chairperson and the Secretary of
the Commission, and a copy of the plan or part thereof shall be certified to
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.12) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.13 APPROVAL FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   Whenever any such Planning Commission shall have adopted the comprehensive
plan of the municipality or any part thereof, then and thenceforth, no street,
park or other public way, ground, place, space, no public building or
structure, no public utility, whether publicly or privately owned, if covered
by the comprehensive plan or any adopted part thereof, shall be construed or
authorized in the municipality or within its subdivision jurisdiction as
defined in SDCL § 11-6-26, until and unless the location and extent thereof
shall have been submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review pursuant to
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.13) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.14 SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS.
   The acceptance, widening, removal, extension, relocation for any street or
other public way, ground, place, property or structure shall be subject to
submission and approval by the Planning Commission, which shall communicate its
approval or disapproval to the City Council with reasons therefor, and the City
Council shall then determine whether to approve or disapprove the submission.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.14) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.15 PLATTING JURISDICTION OF MUNICIPALITY.
   From and after the time when the Planning Commission of any municipality
shall have adopted a comprehensive plan which includes at least a major street
plan or shall have progressed in its comprehensive planning to the stage of
making and an adoption of a major street plan, and shall have filed a certified
copy of such major street plan in the office of the Register of Deeds of the
county in which the municipality is located, no plat of a subdivision of land
lying within the municipality, or of land within three miles of its corporate
limits and not located in any other municipality, shall be filed or recorded
until it shall have been submitted to and a report and recommendations thereon
made by said
Commission to the Council and the Council has approved the plat.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.15) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.16 APPROVAL ON PLATTING OF LAND.
   Any platting or subdivision of land containing two or more lots, no matter
how described, must be submitted to the Planning Commissions for approval. Any
plat submitted for approval shall contain the name and address of a person to
whom notice of hearing may be sent; and no plat shall be acted upon by the
Council without affording a hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of
which shall be sent by mail to said address not less than five days before the
date fixed therefor.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.16) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.17 TIME ALLOWANCE.
   The plat shall be approved or disapproved within 60 days after submission
thereof; otherwise such plat shall be deemed to have been approved and a
certificate to that effect shall be issued by the Council on demand; provided,
however, that the applicant for the approval may waive this requirement and
consent to the extension of such period. The ground of disapproval of any plat
shall be stated upon the records of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.17) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.18 DEDICATION NOT ACCEPTED BY APPROVAL OF PLAT.
   The approval of a plat by the Council shall not be deemed to constitute or
affect an acceptance by the municipality of public of the dedication of any
street or other ground shown on the plat.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.18) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.19 PLAT APPROVAL BEFORE BEING RECORDED.
   When any map, plan, plat or replat is tendered for filing in the office of
the Register of Deeds, it shall be the duty of any such officer to determine
whether such proposed map, plan, plat or replat is or is not subject to the
provisions of this subchapter and whether the endorsements required by this
subchapter appear thereon, and no Register of Deeds or deputy shall accept for
record, or record any such map, plan, plat or replat unless and until the same
shall have been approved by the Council of such municipality as required by
SDCL §§ 11-6-26 and 11-6-26.1.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.19) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.20 APPROVAL AFTER ATTACHMENT OF PLATTING JURISDICTION.
   From and after the time when the platting jurisdictions of any municipality
shall have attached by virtue of the adoption of a major street plan as
provided in SDCL § 11-6-26, the municipality or other public authority shall
not, except as provided by SDCL § 11-6-37, accept, lay out, open, improve,
grade, pave or light any street or lay or authorize the laying of water mains,
sewers, connections or other facilities or utilities in any street within the
municipality unless such street shall have been accepted or opened as, or shall
have otherwise received the legal status of, a public street prior to the
adoption of a comprehensive plan, or unless such street corresponds in its
location and lines with a street shown on a subdivision plat approved by the
Council or on a street plat made by and adopted by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.21) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.21 STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   The Council, or, in the case of a street outside of the municipality, the
governing body of such outside territory, may locate and construct or may
accept any other street if the ordinance or other measure for such location and
construction or for such acceptance be first submitted to the Planning
Commission for its approval, and, if disapproved by the Commission, be passed
by not less than two-thirds of the entire membership of Council or said
governing body; and a street approval by the Commission upon such submission,
or constructed or accepted by said two-thirds vote after disapproval by the
Commission, shall have the status of an approved street as fully as through it
has been originally shown on a subdivision plat approved by the Council or on a
plat made and adopted by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.22) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
§ 33.22 BUILDINGS PROHIBITED ON UNAPPROVED STREETS.
   From and after the time when the platting jurisdiction of any municipality
shall have attached by reason of the adoption of a major street plan as
provided in SDCL § 11-6-26, no building permit shall be issued for or no
building shall be erected on any lot within the territorial jurisdiction of
said Commission as provided in SDCL § 11-6-26, unless the street giving access
to the lot upon which said building is proposed to be placed shall be accepted
as opened as, or shall have otherwise received the legal status of, a public
street prior to that time, or unless such street corresponds in its location
and lines with a street shown on a subdivision plat approved by the Council or
on a street plat made and adopted by said Commission or with a street located
or accepted by the Council, or, in the case of territory outside of the
municipal corporation, by the governing body thereof, after submission to said
Commission, and, in case of said Commission’s disapproval, by the favorable
vote required in SDCL § 11-6-37. Any building erected in violation of this
section shall be deemed an unlawful structure, and the municipality or
governing body may bring action to enjoin such erection or cause it to be
vacated or removed.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.23) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.35 CREATION.
   There is created a Fire Department for the municipality for the purpose of
protecting life and property by:
   (A)   Providing fire prevention and suppression services;
   (B)   Responding to other emergencies where Fire Department personnel and
equipment can relieve threats to property or human health and safety; and
   (C)   Investigating fires.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.01) (Ord. 13, passed 8-12-1912; Ord. 797, passed - -)
§ 33.36 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Fire Department shall consist of the Chief of the Fire Department and
such other officers and members as needed from time to time. The officers and
members of the Fire Department are appointed by consent of the members of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.02) (Ord. 13, passed 8-12-1912; Ord. 797, passed - -)
§ 33.37 FIRE CHIEF DUTIES.
   The Chief of the Department shall:
   (A)   Ensure that in his or her absence that a competent member of the
Department is available to command any incidents at all times;
   (B)   Render to the Mayor and Council from time to time, when requested,
written reports of the conduct of his or her office; and
   (C)   Be responsible and accountable for the fire apparatus and equipment of
the municipality and its care, housing and protection.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.03) (Ord. 13, passed 8-12-1912; Ord. 797, passed - -)
§ 33.38 AUTHORITY.
   The Fire Chief or officer of the Fire Department in charge at the scene of a
fire or other emergency involving the protection of life or property or any
part thereof, shall have the authority to direct such operation as necessary to
extinguish or control any fire, perform any rescue operation, investigate the
existence of suspected or reported fires, gas leaks or other hazardous
conditions or situations, or take any other action necessary in the reasonable
performance of duty. In the exercise of such power, the Fire Chief is
authorized to prohibit any person, vehicle, vessel or thing from approaching
the scene and is authorized to remove, or cause to be removed or kept away from
the scene, any vehicle, vessel or thing which could impede or interfere with
the operations of the Fire Department and, in the judgment of the Fire Chief,
any person not actually and usefully employed in the extinguishing of such fire
or in the preservation of property in the vicinity thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.04) (Ord. 13, passed 8-12-1912; Ord. 797, passed - -)
§ 33.39 BARRICADES.
   The Fire Chief or officer of the Fire Department in charge at the scene of
an emergency is authorized to place ropes, guards, barricades or other
obstructions across any street, alley, place or private property in the
vicinity of such operation so as to prevent accidents or interference with the
lawful efforts of the Fire Department to manage and control the situation and
to handle fire apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.05) (Ord. 13, passed 8-12-1912; Ord. 797, passed - -)
§ 33.40 FIRE MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be the Fire Marshal, but he or
she shall receive no compensation therefor.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Marshal to attend to the enforcement
of the provisions of this subchapter and all other provisions pertaining to the
protection from fire.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal shall have the authority to declare a structure
unsafe for occupancy based upon any damage sustained at an emergency.
   (D)   The Fire Marshal shall have the right to enter upon any premises at
all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting the same. Such right of
entry, however, is subject to §
151.058(C) of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.06) (Ord. 797, passed - -)
§ 33.41 OFFENSES.
   Any person who willfully commits any of the following offenses is subject to
the penalties identified in §
10.99:
   (A)   Hinders or resists any firefighter or police officer in the official
performance of their duty, conducts himself or herself in a disorderly or noisy
manner at such emergency or refuses to obey any necessary and lawful order;
   (B)   Drives over, upon or across any fire hose;
   (C)   Tampers with or damages any fire alarm or detection system, fire
apparatus, fire tools or equipment, or fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.07) (Ord. 13, passed 8-12-1912; Ord. 797, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever being the owner or agent of the owner of the land located
within platting jurisdiction of any municipality as described in SDCL § 11-6-
26, knowingly or with intent to defraud, transfers or sells or agrees to sell
or negotiates to sell such land by reference to or exhibition of or by other
use of a subdivision of such land before such plat has been approved by the
Council and recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds, shall forfeit and
pay a penalty pursuant to §
10.99 for each lot so transferred or sold or agreed or negotiated to be sold;
and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other
document used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the
transaction from such penalties. Said municipality may enjoin such transfer or
sale of agreement by action for injunction or may recover the said penalty by
civil action.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.20) (Ord. 403, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -)
CHAPTER 34: CORRECTIONS ENTERPRISES
Section
   
34.01   Establishment of authority
   
34.02   Municipal jail
   
34.03   Location
   
34.04   Jail enterprise
   
34.05   Jail operational command and control
   
34.06   Jail per diem rates charged
   
34.07   Halfway house
   
34.08   Location
   
34.09   Halfway house enterprise
   
34.10   Halfway house operational command and control
   
34.11   Halfway house per diem rates charged
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF AUTHORITY.
   The city shall be authorized to operate and maintain corrections
enterprises, to include a municipal jail and a halfway house.
(Ord. 924, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 34.02 MUNICIPAL JAIL.
   The municipal jail shall provide regional jail services, for charge on a per
diem basis, to such counties, state entities and federal entities as are found
appropriate for the facilities and services offered and which enter into a
contract for such services.
(Ord. 924, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 34.03 LOCATION.
   The municipal jail shall be located in, and shall operate its various
programs within, the city jail facility located at 217 East Third Street.
(Ord. 924, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 34.04 JAIL ENTERPRISE.
   The municipal jail shall be operated as an enterprise of the city, with its
own budget and accounting according to criteria set forth by state auditors. An
annual budget of the operation shall be prepared each year, and an audit of the
enterprise shall be conducted as a part of the city’s normal audit at such
intervals designated by the City Council or by law. The enterprise shall be
conducted in a manner that is deemed appropriate with a consideration of
generating revenues to cover all operating expenses with a surplus to be
available for other purposes as designated by the City Council.
(Ord. 924, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 34.05 JAIL OPERATIONAL COMMAND AND CONTROL.
   The municipal jail shall be under the command and control of a Jail
Administrator, who shall have such personnel under his or her command as
determined by the City Council. The Jail Administrator shall answer to, and
shall be under the direct supervision of the Public Safety Commissioner.
(Ord. 924, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 34.06 JAIL PER DIEM RATES CHARGED.
   The per diem rates charged by the municipal jail shall be as set by the City
Council in consultation with the Public Safety Commissioner and the Jail
Administrator.
(Ord. 924, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 34.07 HALFWAY HOUSE.
   The city halfway house shall provide regional halfway house services, for
charge on a per diem basis, to such governmental entities as are found
appropriate for the facilities and services offered and which enter into a
contract for such services.
(Ord. 924, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 34.08 LOCATION.
   The city halfway house shall be located in, and shall operate its various
programs within, the city halfway house facility located at 310 Madison Street.
(Ord. 924, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 34.09 HALFWAY HOUSE ENTERPRISE.
   The city halfway house shall be operated as an enterprise of the city, with
its own budget and accounting according to criteria set forth by state
auditors. An annual budget of the operation shall be prepared each year, and an
audit of the enterprise shall be conducted as a part of the city’s normal audit
at such intervals designated by the City Council or by law. The enterprise
shall be conducted in a manner that is deemed appropriate with a consideration
of generating revenues to cover all operating expenses with a surplus to be
available for other purposes as designated by the City Council.
(Ord. 924, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 34.10 HALFWAY HOUSE OPERATIONAL COMMAND AND CONTROL.
   The city halfway house shall be under the command and control of a Halfway
House Supervisor, who shall have such personnel under his or her command as
determined by the City Council. The Halfway House Supervisor shall answer to,
and shall be under the direct supervision of the Public Safety Commissioner.
(Ord. 924, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 34.11 HALFWAY HOUSE PER DIEM RATES CHARGED.
   The per diem rates charged by the city halfway house shall be as set by the
City Council in consultation with the Public Safety Commissioner and the
Halfway House Supervisor.
(Ord. 924, passed 4-15-2019)
CHAPTER 35: ELECTIONS
Section
   
35.01   Area description
   
35.02   Polling location
   
35.03   Ward map
   
35.04   Election by majority
§ 35.01 AREA DESCRIPTION.
   There shall be three wards in the city:
   (A)   The First Ward shall be the area east and south of a line beginning at
the city limits on the platted right-of-way of South Main Street, north to
Sixth Street, east to Jefferson Street, north to Second Street, east to South
Dakota Highway 44, and east on South Dakota Highway 44 to the city limits; and
   (B)   The Second Ward shall be the area west and south of a line beginning
at the platted right-of-way of South Main Street, north to Sixth Street, east
to Jefferson Street, north to Fifth Street, west to South County Road, south to
Seventh Street, and west to the city limits; and
   (C)   The Third Ward shall be the area north of a line beginning at the city
limits on West Seventh Street, east to South County Road, north to Fifth
Street, east to Jefferson Street, north to Second Street, east to South Dakota
Highway 44, and east on South Dakota Highway 44 to the city limits.
(SDCL § 9-19-16) (Prior Code, § 2.01.01) (Ord. 190, passed - -; Ord. 317,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 736, passed - -; Ord. 810, passed - -;
Ord. 1016, passed 12-6-2021)
§ 35.02 POLLING LOCATION.
   The polling location for all municipal elections shall be determined by the
City Council and published by the required deadlines governing the conduct of
municipal elections.
(SDCL § 9-19-16) (Prior Code, § 2.01.02) (Ord. 190, passed - -; Ord. 317,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 736, passed - -; Ord. 758, passed - -)
§ 35.03 WARD MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aad9f9acd32abf7731f81e33baecc989267ea6ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2212.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 2.01.03) (Ord. 1016, passed 12-6-2021)
§ 35.04 ELECTION BY MAJORITY.
   In all elections for elective office within the city, including Council
members and Mayor, if no candidate in a race involving three or more candidates
receives a majority of the votes cast for that particular elective office, a
runoff election shall be held three weeks from the date of the first election.
At the runoff election, the two candidates receiving the highest number of
votes at the first election shall be on the ballot. However, if there is a tie
for second place in the first election and there is no tie for first place, all
tying second place candidates shall be placed along with the first place
candidate on the ballot for the runoff election. The runoff election shall be
held at the same polling places and shall be conducted, returned and canvassed
in the same manner as the first election. The person receiving the highest
number of votes at the runoff election is elected.
(Ord. 931, passed 8-5-2019)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
Casualty Reserve Fund
   
36.001   Establishment of Fund
   
36.002   Maximum amount
   
36.003   Restricted use of Fund
   
36.004   Interest earned from investment
Capital Improvement Fund
   
36.015   Purpose
   
36.016   Allocation
Sales Tax
   
36.030   Purpose
   
36.031   Effective date and enactment of tax
   
36.032   Use tax
   
36.033   Collection
   
36.034   Use of revenue
   
36.035   Interpretation
Lodging, Dining and Alcoholic Beverage Tax
   
36.050   Purpose
   
36.051   Effective date and enactment of tax
   
36.052   Collection
   
36.053   Use of revenue
   
36.054   Interpretation
Urban and Rural Service Districts
   
36.065   Purpose
   
36.066   Intent
   
36.067   Definitions
   
36.068   Rural Service District
   
36.069   Urban Service District
   
36.070   Annexed agricultural land
   
36.071   Transfer to Urban District
   
36.072   Filing with County Auditor
   
36.073   Certification of tax levy to County Auditor; allocation and spread of
levies
Discretionary Taxation
   
36.100   Discretionary taxation of real property; definitions and formula; new
construction and/or renovations
 
   
36.999   Penalty
CASUALTY RESERVE FUND
§ 36.001 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a fund to be designated as the Casualty
Reserve Fund.
   (B)   The city shall, in its annual appropriation, set forth a specific
amount of monies not to exceed the sum of $30,000, which shall be deposited in
the Casualty Reserve Fund and said amount appropriated shall be transferred to
the Casualty Reserve Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2.07.01) (Ord. 541, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 36.002 MAXIMUM AMOUNT.
   Pursuant to SDCL § 9-21-16.1, at no time shall the money in the Casualty
Reserve Fund exceed the sum of $100,000.
(Prior Code, § 2.07.02) (Ord. 541, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 36.003 RESTRICTED USE OF FUND.
   The monies in the Casualty Reserve Fund shall only be expended for the
payment of expenses to replace and repair property of the municipality which
may be damaged or lost as a result of the casualty loss.
(Prior Code, § 2.07.03) (Ord. 541, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 36.004 INTEREST EARNED FROM INVESTMENT.
   If the Casualty Reserve Fund is at the maximum amount allowed as set out
above, any interest earned from investment of the fund shall be placed in the
Municipalities General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2.07.04) (Ord. 541, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND
§ 36.015 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide a Capital Replacement Reserve
Fund for the City Law Enforcement Center and other purposes authorized by SDCL
§ 9-21-31, including paying off the City Regional Law Enforcement facility
center bond debt early.
(Prior Code, § 2.09.01) (Ord. 560, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 755,
passed - -)
§ 36.016 ALLOCATION.
   Effective January 1, 2005, the city will annually allocate to the Capital
Replacement Reserve Fund $327,385 out of the city regional law enforcement
facility revenues and shall place the amount into the fund in four
installments:
   (A)   The first installment being paid within 45 days after the first
quarter of the fiscal year;
   (B)   The second installment being paid within 45 days after the second
fiscal quarter of the year;
   (C)   The third installment being paid within 45 days after the third
quarter of the fiscal year; and
   (D)   The fourth installment being paid within 45 days after the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 2.09.02) (Ord. 560, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 755,
passed - -)
SALES TAX
§ 36.030 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide additional needed revenue for
the city by imposing a municipal retail sales and use tax granted to the
municipality by the state in SDCL § 10-52 entitled “Uniform Municipal Non-Ad
Valorem Tax Law” and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.01) (Ord. 505, passed - -; Ord. 584, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 749, passed - -; Ord. 751, passed - -; Ord. 760, passed - -)
§ 36.031 EFFECTIVE DATE AND ENACTMENT OF TAX.
   From and after January 1, 2006, there is hereby imposed as a municipal
retail occupational sales and service tax upon the privilege of engaging in
business, a tax measured by 2% on the gross receipts of all persons engaged in
business within the jurisdiction of the municipality, who are subject to the
state retail occupational sales and service tax, SDCL § 10-45 and acts
amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.02) (Ord. 505, passed - -; Ord. 584, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 749, passed - -; Ord. 751, passed - -; Ord. 760, passed - -)
§ 36.032 USE TAX.
   In addition, there is hereby imposed an excise tax on the privilege of use,
storage and consumption within the jurisdiction of the municipality of tangible
personal property or services purchased from and after January 1, 2006, at the
same rate as the municipal sales and service tax upon all transactions or use,
storage and consumption which are subject to the State Use Tax Act, SDCL § 10-
46, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.03) (Ord. 505, passed - -; Ord. 584, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 749, passed - -; Ord. 751, passed - -; Ord. 760, passed - -)
§ 36.033 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to authorization granted by SDCL § 10-52 and
acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue and Regulation in accordance with the same rule and regulations
applicable to the state sales tax and under such additional rules and
regulations as the Secretary of Revenue and Regulation of the state shall
lawfully prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.04) (Ord. 505, passed - -; Ord. 584, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 749, passed - -; Ord. 751, passed - -; Ord. 760, passed - -)
§ 36.034 USE OF REVENUE.
   All revenues received under this subchapter shall go into the General
Municipal Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.05) (Ord. 505, passed - -; Ord. 584, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 749, passed - -; Ord. 751, passed - -; Ord. 760, passed - -)
§ 36.035 INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the State Occupational Sales and Service Act, SDCL § 10-45
and acts amendatory thereto and the state use tax, SDCL § 10-46 and acts
amendatory hereto, and that this shall be considered a similar tax except for
the rate thereof to that tax.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.06) (Ord. 505, passed - -; Ord. 584, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 749, passed - -; Ord. 751, passed - -; Ord. 760, passed - -)
LODGING, DINING AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE TAX
§ 36.050 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is provide additional needed revenue for the
city by imposing a municipal gross receipts tax pursuant to the powers granted
to the municipality by the state by SDCL § 10-52A, and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.01) (Ord. 771, passed - -; Ord. 780, passed - -)
§ 36.051 EFFECTIVE DATE AND ENACTMENT OF TAX.
   From and after January 1, 2009, there is hereby imposed a municipal gross
receipts tax at the rate of 1% upon the gross receipts of all leases or rentals
of hotel, motel, campsite or other lodging accommodations within the
municipality for periods of less than 28 consecutive days, the sales of
alcoholic beverages as defined in SDCL § 35-1-1 and the sale of food and
beverages where the public is invited to eat, dine or purchase and carry out
prepared food for immediate consumption. The tax applies to the gross receipts
of all persons or entities engaged in business within the jurisdiction of the
city, who are subject to the state retail occupational sales and service tax,
SDCL § 10-45 and acts amendatory thereto.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.02) (Ord. 771, passed - -; Ord. 780, passed - -)
§ 36.052 COLLECTION.
   Such tax is levied pursuant to the authorization granted by SDCL § 10-52A
and acts amendatory thereto, and shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue and Regulation in accordance with the same rules and regulations
applicable to the state sales tax and under such additional rules and
regulations as the Secretary of Revenue of the state shall lawfully prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.03) (Ord. 771, passed - -; Ord. 780, passed - -)
§ 36.053 USE OF REVENUE.
   Any revenues received under this subchapter may be used only for the purpose
of land acquisition, architectural fees, construction costs, payment for civic
center, auditoriums or athletic facility buildings, including the maintenance,
staffing and operations of such facilities, and the promotion and advertising
of the municipality, its facilities, attractions, activities and any other
lawful activity as is envisioned in SDCL § 10-52A.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.04) (Ord. 771, passed - -; Ord. 780, passed - -)
§ 36.054 INTERPRETATION.
   It is declared to be the intention of this subchapter and the taxes levied
hereunder that the same shall be interpreted and construed in the same manner
as all sections of the State Retail Occupational Sales and Service Act, SDCL §
10-45 and acts amendatory thereto, and that this shall be considered a similar
tax except for the rate thereof to that tax.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.05) (Ord. 771, passed - -; Ord. 780, passed - -)
URBAN AND RURAL SERVICE DISTRICTS
§ 36.065 PURPOSE.
   These regulations comprise the requirements of the city urban and rural
property classifications for the purpose of ad valorem property taxation
ordinance and shall be referred to as urban and rural property classification
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2.11.01) (Ord. 772, passed - -)
§ 36.066 INTENT.
   It is hereby declared to be the intent and purpose of this subchapter that
the property within the corporate limits of the city be classified as urban and
rural for purposes of ad valorem property taxation consistent with the
provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 2.11.02) (Ord. 772, passed - -)
§ 36.067 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RURAL PROPERTY. All platted or unplatted property not developed for
commercial, industrial or urban residential purposes within the corporate
limits of the city and placed by the city within the rural service district as
provided by this subchapter.
   URBAN PROPERTY. All platted property developed for commercial, industrial or
urban residential purposes within the corporate limits of the city and placed
by the city within the Urban Service District as provided by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.11.03) (Ord. 772, passed - -)
§ 36.068 RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   The Rural Service District shall include only such platted or unplatted
lands as in the judgment of the city at the time of the adoption of the
ordinance are rural in character, are used or usable for agriculture, and are
not developed for commercial, industrial or urban residential purposes, and for
these reasons are not benefitted to the same degree as other lands by municipal
services financed by general taxation. The Rural Service District may include
lands, which are not contiguous to one another. The ordinance may designate
lands outside the municipality, which, if annexed, shall be included within the
Rural Service District.
(Prior Code, § 2.11.04) (Ord. 772, passed - -)
§ 36.069 URBAN SERVICE DISTRICT.
   The Urban Service District shall include all lands within the boundaries of
the municipality, which are not included in the Rural Service District.
(Prior Code, § 2.11.05) (Ord. 772, passed - -)
§ 36.070 ANNEXED AGRICULTURAL LAND.
   The tax levy and assessed value on the agricultural land annexed shall not
exceed the average tax levy and average assessed value on unannexed
agricultural land in adjoining townships in the county as long as the annexed
agricultural land remains rural property as defined by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.11.06) (Ord. 772, passed - -)
§ 36.071 TRANSFER TO URBAN DISTRICT.
   Whenever any parcel of land, owned by one person or by two or more persons
jointly or in common at the time of its inclusion in the Rural Service
District, is platted, in whole or in part, and whenever application is made for
a permit for the construction of a commercial, industrial or urban residential
development or improvement to be situated on such parcel or any part thereof,
the board or officer approving such plat or building permit shall report this
to the city, which shall make and enter an order transferring such parcel from
the Rural Service District to the Urban Service District.
(Prior Code, § 2.11.07) (Ord. 772, passed - -)
§ 36.072 FILING WITH COUNTY AUDITOR.
   A certified copy of every ordinance, amendment and order adopted or entered
pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the County Auditor before it
becomes effective.
(Prior Code, § 2.11.08) (Ord. 772, passed - -)
§ 36.073 CERTIFICATION OF TAX LEVY TO COUNTY AUDITOR; ALLOCATION AND SPREAD OF
LEVIES.
   The amount of taxes levied each year by the city shall be certified to the
County Auditor in the manner now or hereafter provided by law. Taxes levied for
payment of bonds shall continue to be spread upon all taxable property within
the boundaries of the city in proportion to the assessed valuation thereof. The
remaining amount of the taxes levied each year shall be allocated by the County
Auditor to the Urban Service District and the Rural Service District in amounts
proportionate to the current benefit ratio times the current benefit between
the full and true values of all taxable property within the Urban Service
District and all taxable property within the Rural Service District. Within
each district, the amount so allocated shall be spread upon all taxable
property in proportion to the assessed valuation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2.11.09) (Ord. 772, passed - -)
DISCRETIONARY TAXATION
§ 36.100 DISCRETIONARY TAXATION OF REAL PROPERTY; DEFINITIONS AND FORMULA; NEW
CONSTRUCTION AND/OR RENOVATIONS.
   (A)   Discretionary taxation of real property. The purpose of this section
is to provide reduced taxation of the following identified properties pursuant
to SDCL 10-6-137.
   (B)   Industrial structures. Any new industrial structure, or any addition,
renovation, or reconstruction to an existing structure, including a power
generation facility, which new structure or addition has a true and full value
of $30,000 or more, added to real property shall qualify to be assessed
pursuant to the discretionary formula described in division (H) below, pursuant
to SDCL 10-6-137(2).
   (C)   Commercial structures. Any new commercial structure, or any addition,
renovation, or reconstruction to an existing structure, which new structure or
addition has a true and full value of $30,000 or more shall qualify to be
assessed pursuant to the discretionary formula described in division (H) below,
pursuant to SDCL 10-6-137(4).
   (D)   Commercial residential structures. Any new commercial residential
structure, or addition to an existing structure, containing four or more units,
if the new structure or addition has a true and full value of $30,000 or more,
shall qualify to be assessed pursuant to the discretionary formula described in
division (H) below, pursuant to SDCL 10-6-137(5).
   (E)   Residential structures.
      (1)   Any new residential structure, or any addition to or renovation of
an existing structure, located within a redevelopment neighborhood, which new
structure, addition, or renovation has a true and full value of $20,000 or
more, added to real property shall qualify to be assessed pursuant to the
discretionary formula described in division (H) below, pursuant to SDCL 10-6-
137(7).
      (2)   In order to improve the quality of housing, all real property
located within the corporate limits of the City of Winner, South Dakota shall
qualify as property located in a redevelopment neighborhood. The redevelopment
neighborhood is being established because the area includes buildings or
improvements which, by reason of age, deterioration, obsolescence, and
dilapidation injuriously affect the area to the detriment of public health,
safety, morals or welfare; and, because the redevelopment of housing is being
prevented by the predominance of defective or inadequate street layout; faulty
lot layout in relation to size, adequacy, accessibility, or usefulness; the
deterioration of site improvements; and obsolete platting, pursuant to SDCL 10-
6-141.
   (F)   Special classifications. All commercial, industrial, and
nonresidential agricultural property which increases more than $10,000 in true
and full value as a result of reconstruction or renovation of structure shall
qualify to be assessed pursuant to the discretionary formula described in
division (H) below. All real property qualifying under this section completed
on December 5, 2022 and thereafter, as determined by the Director of
Equalization, is classified in the manner prescribed in this section, pursuant
to SDCL 10-6-137(8).
   (G)   Valuation.
      (1)   Any real property located within the corporate limits of the City
of Winner, South Dakota, classified pursuant to the following shall, following
construction, initially be valued for taxation purposed in the usual manner,
and that value shall be referred to as the "pre-adjustment value." The assessed
value to be used for tax purposes shall follow the discretionary formula
described in division (H) below. Following the five or seven year period as
provided in division (H), the property shall be assessed at the same percentage
as all other property for tax purposes.
      (2)   Reconstruction and renovation as used in this chapter means only
improvements that increase the true and full value of the structure and shall
not include normal maintenance and repair.
      (3)   The assessed value during any of the five or seven years provided
in division (H) may not be less than the assessed value of the property in the
year proceeding the first year of the tax years following construction.
      (4)   Any structure that is partially constructed on the assessment date
may be valued for tax purposes pursuant to this section and the valuation may
not be less than the assessed valuation of the property in the year preceding
the beginning of construction.
      (5)   Property owners of any of the above described property may request
the City Council not apply the discretionary formula, in which case the full
assessment shall be made without application of the formula. In waiving the
formula for the structure of one owner, the City Council is not prohibited from
applying the formula for subsequent new structures by that owner.
   (H)   Discretionary formula.
      (1)   Any real property improvements qualifying for the discretionary
formula pursuant to divisions (B), (C) and (F) shall be assessed as follows:
 
First year  20% of pre-adjustment value
Second year 40% of pre-adjustment value
Third year  60% of pre-adjustment value
Fourth year 80% of pre-adjustment value
Fifth year  100% of pre-adjustment value
 
      (2)   Any real property improvements qualifying for the discretionary
formula pursuant to divisions (D) and (E) shall be assessed as follows:
 
First year   15% of pre-adjustment value
Second year  25% of pre-adjustment value
Third year   35% of pre-adjustment value
Fourth year  50% of pre-adjustment value
Fifth year   60% of pre-adjustment value
Sixth year   75% of pre-adjustment value
Seventh year 100% of pre-adjustment value
 
(Ord. 1045, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
36.030 through
36.035 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be fined per §
10.99. In addition, all such collection remedies authorized by SDCL § 10-45,
and acts amendatory thereto, and SDCL § 10-46, and acts amendatory thereto are
hereby authorized for the collection of these excise taxes by the Department of
Revenue and Regulation.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.07)
   (C)   Any person failing or refusing to make reports or payments prescribed
by §§
36.050 through
36.054 and the rules and regulations relating to the ascertainment and
collection of the tax herein levied shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned in the municipal
jail for 30 days or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, all such
collection remedies authorized by SDCL § 10-45, and acts amendatory thereto,
are hereby authorized for the collection of these excise taxes by the
Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 2.10.06)
(Ord. 505, passed - -; Ord. 584, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 749,
passed - -; Ord. 751, passed - -; Ord. 760, passed - -; Ord. 771, passed - -;
Ord. 780, passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   RATES AND COLLECTIONS
      
51.   ELECTRICITY
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   WASTEWATER
      
54.   SOLID WASTE
      
55.   CEMETERY
CHAPTER 50: RATES AND COLLECTIONS
Section
   
50.01   Rates
   
50.02   Electricity and water meters
   
50.03   Utility statements
   
50.04   Deposits, delinquent accounts, fees and appeal process
   
50.05   Disconnect fee
   
50.06   Payment of utility bill
   
50.07   Past due account collections
   
50.08   Retention of unclaimed utility refunds
§ 50.01 RATES.
   (A)   The Council shall set and adjust all rates, fees, deposits and any
other costs for all utilities and services covered within this chapter through
the ordinance process and published separately.
   (B)   Water. The following schedule of rates and charges within and without
the city for water and service is hereby established:
      (1)   Residential/churches water rates.
         (a)
 
First 2,000 gallons or less $14.50
Next 3,000 gallons          $7.50 per thousand gallons
Excess of 5,000 gallons     $3.50 per thousand gallons
 
         (b)   Effective January 1, 2023, applied to utility bills on March 1,
2023 and thereafter, the rates will be adjusted as follows:
 
First 2,000 gallons or less (minimum usage) $19.50
Next 3,000 gallons                          $7.62 per thousand gallons
Excess of 5,000 gallons                     $3.56 per thousand gallons
 
      (2)   Commercial/government water rates.
         (a)
 
First 2,000 gallons or less $16.60
Next 3,000 gallons          $8.50 per thousand gallons
Next 10,000 gallons         $3.50 per thousand gallons
Excess of 15,000 gallons    $3 per thousand gallons
 
         (b)   Effective January 1, 2023, applied to utility bills on March 1,
2023 and thereafter, the rates shall be adjusted as follows:
 
First 2,000 gallons or less (minimum usage) $21.60
Next 3,000 gallons                          $8.63 per thousand gallons
Next 10,000 gallons                         $3.56 per thousand gallons
Excess of 15,000 gallons                    $3.05 per thousand gallons
 
      (3)   Non-profit recreational organizations located outside the city
limits. The monthly rates for non-profit recreational organizations who are
users of municipal water and located outside the city limits are as follows:
         (a)   1.   Beginning on January 1, 2023, non-profit recreational
organizations, which are users of municipal water and located outside of city
limits, shall be charged a monthly rate of $0.90 per thousand gallons, or
fraction thereof, for the first 1,000 gallons and all over 1,000 gallons.
            2.   Beginning on January 1, 2024, the rate shall increase by $0.05
per 1,000 gallons, or fraction thereof.
            3.   Beginning on January 1, 2025, the rate shall increase by $0.05
per 1,000 gallons, or fraction thereof.
            4.   Beginning on January 1, 2026, the rate shall increase by $0.05
per 1,000 gallons, or fraction thereof.
            5.   Beginning on January 1, 2027, the rate shall increase by $0.05
per 1,000 gallons, or fraction thereof.
            6.   Beginning on January 1, 2028, the rate shall increase by $0.05
per 1,000 gallons, or fraction thereof.
            7.   Thereafter, unless a different rate of adjustment is
established by subsequent ordinance or resolution prior to the next January 1,
the rate for that next following year shall increase by $0.05 per 1,000
gallons, or fraction thereof, and the same each succeeding year until the
further act of the City Council.
         (b)   Such rates shall apply to all non-profit recreational
organizations whose total acreage devoted to recreational purposes shall exceed
40 acres.
         (c)   All sales of water to such non-profit recreational organizations
are made subject to the ongoing unilateral right of the city to immediately
discontinue all or any portion of the water being supplied pursuant to this
division (B)(3), without prior notice if necessary and for such period of time
as the city determines in its discretion.
      (4)   Vacant property water rates. If there is no structure by which the
property connects to the water system, such as in the case of property on which
only surface irrigation is conducted for lawn care, gardening and the like, the
actual usage will be billed at the residential rate for the months in which
water is used, but in any month in which there is no usage, there will not be a
water charge imposed.
      (5)   Bulk water delivery system. A bulk water delivery system, located
at the city maintenance shop, is available for use by the general public, and
fees, method of payment and access to the system are as follows:
 
Minimum 2,500 gallons or less         $30 per month
Each 1,000 gallons over 2,500 gallons $5 per month
Excess of 5,000 gallons               $3.50 per thousand gallons
 
         (a)   Minimum fee for up to 2,500 gallons, per month per patron,
payable in advance by the first of each month, to be deposited with the Finance
Officer prior to receiving the system. Excess gallons over the 2,500 gallons
minimum will be determined and billed to the appropriate customer.
         (b)   Those patrons who have been approved by the Finance Office and
who have deposited the required minimum $30 will be placed on a list,
maintained at the Finance Office and only those patrons who have made a payment
will be permitted access to the use of the facility.
         (c)   The system will be accessible from 8:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday, on regular working days.
      (6)   Outlaw rates.
         (a)   Consumers located without the municipal limits, but within one
mile thereof, shall be charged rates equivalent to current rates being charged
by the county water user district.
         (b)   New rate schedule will be adopted when necessary to conform to
county water user rates.
      (7)   Tapping fee outside municipal limits. Consumers located without the
municipal limits but within one mile thereof shall pay a tapping fee of:
 
Up to one inch line $300
Up to two inch line $450
 
      (8)   Tapping fee; municipal limits.
         (a)   Consumers located within the municipal city limits thereof shall
pay a tapping fee of:
 
Up to one inch line $300
Up to two inch line $450
 
         (b)   Fee to include tap saddle and shut off on existing main to be
installed by the city. All additional material and labor are the responsibility
of the consumer.
         (c)   Before tapping into the city water main, the consumer or their
contractor shall first pay the tapping fee at the City Finance Office in order
to obtain the tap saddle and shut off from the city. Upon payment of the fee,
the consumer or their contractor shall arrange for installation of the tap
saddle by the city's Water Department. Failure to first pay the tapping fee, or
failure to arrange for installation of the tap saddle by the city crews, or
both, shall subject the consumer or their contractor to a civil penalty of
$1,000 which shall be in addition to the tapping fees. All tapping fees and any
penalty must be paid in full before the water is turned on to the property.
      (9)   Surcharge. In addition to all water usage rates set forth above in
this section, there shall also be imposed a surcharge pursuant to SDCL § 9-40-
15 to pay, redeem and discharge the 2013 State Revolving Fund Loan from the
South Dakota Conservancy District in the amount of $450,000, such surcharge
rate being $1.30 per month for each residential and nonresidential water
customer, such surcharge to be applied exclusively to the satisfaction of the
city's obligations under said loan, and to continue until such time as said
loan obligations have been satisfied.
   (C)   Sanitary sewer. The following schedule of rates and charges within and
without the city for sanitary sewer and service is hereby established for all
residential dwellings, churches, schools, hospital and commercial businesses:
      (1)   Residential/church user fee rates based on gallons of water usage.
         (a)
 
First 2,000 gallons or less $11.50
Next 3,000 gallons          $6.50 per thousand gallons
Next 95,000 gallons         $2.10 per thousand gallons
 
         (b)   Effective January 1, 2023, applied to utility bills on March 1,
2023 and thereafter, the rates shall be adjusted as follows:
 
First 2,000 gallons or less (minimum usage) $15.50
Next 3,000 gallons                          $6.60 per thousand gallons
Next 95,000 gallons                         $2.14 per thousand gallons
 
      (2)   Commercial/government sewer user fee based on gallons of water
usage.
         (a)
 
First 2,000 gallons or less $13
Next 3,000 gallons          $6.50 per thousand gallons
Next 95,000 gallons         $2.10 per thousand gallons
 
         (b)   Effective January 1, 2023, applied to utility bills on March 1,
2023 and thereafter, the rates shall be adjusted as follows:
 
First 2,000 gallons or less (minimum usage) $17
Next 3,000 gallons                          $6.60 per thousand gallons
Next 95,000 gallons                         $2.14 per thousand gallons
 
      (3)   Tapping fee.
         (a)   Fee to include access to existing main and observation and
oversight by city employee during the tapping process. All additional material
and labor is the responsibility of the user.
 
Tap fee within the city                   $300
Tap fee without the municipal city limits $300
 
         (b)   Before tapping into the city sanitary sewer main, the consumer
or their contractor shall first pay the tapping fee at the City Finance Office.
Upon payment of the fee, the consumer or their contractor shall arrange for
observation and oversight of the tap procedure to be performed by the
contractor under the direction of the city's Sewer Department. Failure to first
pay the tapping fee, or failure to install the tap as directed by the city
crews, or both, shall subject the consumer or their contractor to a civil
penalty of $1,000 which shall be in addition to the tapping fees. All tapping
fees and any penalty must be paid in full before the water is turned on to the
property.
      (4)   Surcharge. In addition to all sanitary sewer usage rates set forth
above in this section, there shall also be imposed a surcharge pursuant to SDCL
§ 9-40-15 to pay, redeem and discharge the 2017 Rural Development Loan from the
United States Department of Agriculture in the amount of $917,000, such
surcharge rate being $3 per month for each residential and nonresidential
sanitary sewer customer, such surcharge to be applied exclusively to the
satisfaction of the city's obligations under said loan, and to continue until
such time as said loan obligations have been satisfied.
   (D)   Electric. The following schedule of rates and charges for electricity
and service of the said system is hereby established, effective with the
January 2018 meter readings and thereafter until amended:
      (1)   Residential/church rates.
         (a)
 
Customer charge - per month $15.50
Charge per kWh              $.0980
 
         (b)   Effective January 1, 2023, applied to utility bills on March 1,
2023 and thereafter, the rates shall be adjusted as follows:
 
Customer charge - per month (minimum usage) $19.50
Charge per kWh                              $.1080
 
      (2)   Small commercial/government rates. Available to non-residential
commercial and governmental customers with single-phase or three-phase service
requirements with monthly demands of less than 25 kW in ten or more months out
of the previous 12 months.
         (a)
 
Customer charge - per month $22
Charge per kWh              $.1000
 
         (b)   Effective January 1, 2023, applied to utility bills on March 1,
2023 and thereafter, the rates shall be adjusted as follows:
 
Customer charge - per month (minimum usage) $26
Charge per kWh                              $.1100
 
      (3)   Large commercial/government rates. Available to non-residential
commercial and governmental customers with single or three-phase service
requirements with monthly demands exceeding 25 kW in three or more months out
of the previous 12 months. The 12 months is a rolling and consecutive 12 months
(i.e. February-January or April-March).
         (a)
 
Customer charge - per month $40
Energy charge per kWh       $.0490
Demand charge per demand kW $13.10
 
         (b)   Effective January 1, 2023, applied to utility bills on March 1,
2023 and thereafter, the rates shall be adjusted as follows:
 
Customer charge - per month (minimum usage) $44
Energy charge per kWh                       $.0500
Demand charge per demand kW                 $13.30
 
      (4)   Security lights.
         (a)
 
Per light per month charge $7.25
 
         (b)   Effective January 1, 2023, applied to utility bills on March 1,
2023 and thereafter, the rates shall be adjusted as follows:
 
Per light per month charge $7.47
 
   (E)   Annual adjustment of utility rates.
      (1)   Annual CPI adjustment. Beginning January 1, 2024, and every January
1 thereafter, there shall be an annual increase in the minimum usage charges
above based upon the CPI. On that basis, each minimum usage rate set forth
above in this section shall be adjusted to equal the prior 12 month period's
minimum usage rate PLUS the percentage of that prior 12 month period's minimum
usage rate that equals the most recently reported CPI.
      (2)   In addition, beginning January 1, 2024, and every January 1
thereafter, there shall be an annual increase in the charges for actual
utilities usage charges above, based upon 50% of the CPI. On that basis, all
utilities usage charges set forth above in this section shall be adjusted to
equal the prior 12 month period's actual usage rate PLUS the percentage of that
prior 12 month period's actual usage rates that equals 50% of the most recently
reported CPI.
      (3)   For purposes of this provision CPI shall mean the consumer price
index annual rate of inflation as determined by the South Dakota Department of
Revenue and Regulation.
   (F)   Publication of rate chart. By January 1 of each year, the Finance
Officer shall prepare a comprehensive chart of all utilities rates and charges,
which chart shall be published as an exhibit to this section. The chart shall
also be published to the city's website, social media account, and shall be
made readily available to all members of the public who request the same from
the Finance Office.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.01) (Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 822, passed - -; Ord. 836,
passed - -; Ord. 850, passed - -; Ord. 851, passed - -; Ord. 867, passed - -;
Ord. 880, passed - -; Ord. 886, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 962, passed 9-8-2020;
Ord. 1026, passed 4-18-2022; Ord. 1038, passed 9-6-2022; Ord. 1064, passed 10-
16-2023)
§ 50.02 ELECTRICITY AND WATER METERS.
    Meters, obtained from the city, shall measure all electricity and water
supplied by the city. The City of Winner will provide the first meter free of
charge to all new residential customers that have not previously had a city
meter connected to the property. Commercial customers will be charged for each
meter. All replacement meters whether due to breakage, misuse or otherwise will
be at the cost of the customer. All replacement meters shall be picked up and
paid for at the Finance Office.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.02) (Ord. 550, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 735,
passed - -; Ord. 1026, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 50.03 UTILITY STATEMENTS.
    Statements of amount of utilities shall be mailed by the Finance Office at
the end of each month to the consumer and such bill and amount shall be deemed
delinquent if remaining unpaid by the tenth of the following month.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.03) (Ord. 414, passed - -; Ord. 550, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 735, passed - -; Ord. 1026, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 50.04 DEPOSITS, DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS, FEES AND APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)    An advance deposit of $60 shall be required of all utility service
consumers that provide a favorable credit reference from a previous utility
supplier which is received at the Finance Office within two weeks of connection
of service, and no consumer shall be connected until the advance deposits have
been paid. A favorable credit reference is one based upon utility service
provided within the previous year, and shall be for utility service that was
connected for not less than one continuous year. Failure to produce a favorable
utility credit reference shall result in immediate disconnection of service
unless the consumer deposits $200 as an additional deposit. The additional
deposit will be carried as a credit to the consumer's account for one year, to
be returned to the consumer provided that utility payments have been received
in the Finance Office by the tenth day of each month for that preceding year,
or until final settlement is made. Any person residing within or without the
city who desires water service from the city shall submit a deposit of $40 that
shall be carried as a credit to the consumer's account until final settlement
is made.
   (B)   Payments not received by the Finance Office on or before the tenth day
of each month shall be considered delinquent and subject to disconnect. An
evaluation of delinquent accounts shall be done by the Finance Office and
disconnect notices prepared. A termination notice shall be sent to the customer
by the fifteenth day of the month advising that if the delinquent account is
not paid in full by the twenty-fifth day of the month, the electrical service
shall be disconnected. Once the disconnect order has been issued by the Finance
Office, the service will not be reconnected that same day unless the customer
pays all delinquencies and fees, including the disconnect fee. Payments or
arrangements made after 3:30 p.m. will not result in reconnection until the
following day. The consumer may contact the Finance Officer and appeal the bill
per the chapter process. If the Finance Officer deems appropriate, agreements
can be made to schedule payments for the delinquent and current billings. If a
customer is not satisfied with the Finance Officer's decision, said customer
may appeal to the Utility Committee and/or full City Council.
   (C)   Following disconnection of the electrical service, if water continues
to be consumed within the premises, regular utility bills shall continue to be
sent for water and sewer charges; and if the water and sewer charges are not
paid in full, or if only water charges are paid but sewer charges are not paid,
then the disconnection process set forth above shall be implemented, and if
such charges are not paid following the disconnection notice, then the water
service shall be shut off, and will not be reconnected until all delinquent
utility charges, together with any applicable fees set forth herein, are paid
in full.
   (D)   Delinquent bills that remain unpaid 20 days after the original billing
date shall be subject to late fee and interest charges. If a delinquent bill is
less than $200 the late fee assessed shall be $10. Any delinquent bill
exceeding $200 shall be assessed a late fee in the amount of $10 plus 2.5%
interest. The City Council reserves the right and authority to review and
adjust any late fees through resolution of said City Council.
   (E)   When the electrical service has been disconnected due to non-payment,
it shall not be reconnected until all back-utility charges, a delinquent
account fee and a disconnect fee have all been paid in full to the Finance
Office. The revenue generated thereby shall be for electrical fund purposes.
   (F)   Payment arrangements shall not be allowed for accounts that have had
their utility service disconnected without the approval of the Finance Officer.
   (G)   Appeals on disputed charges shall be addressed to the Finance Officer,
by written notice, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., local time,
Monday through Friday. The customer shall be given an opportunity to appeal the
decision of the Finance Officer if the appeal is denied at that level. All such
appeals on disputed charges shall be brought before the Finance Committee at
its next regularly scheduled meeting and service shall be continued until the
appeal is heard. If no resolution is reached through the Finance Committee, the
disputed charge shall be brought before the City Council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting and service shall continue until the appeal is heard.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.04) (Ord. 550, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 735,
passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 835, passed - -; Ord. 847, passed - -;
Ord. 876, passed - -; Ord. 941, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 1026, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 50.05 DISCONNECT FEE.
   When the electric service has been disconnected at the request of the
customer, for convenience or otherwise, a disconnect fee of $50 shall be
imposed whenever the customer requests that the service be disconnected.
Reconnection will not be done until the disconnect fee has been paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.04.01) (Ord. 834, passed - -; Ord. 941, passed 12-16-2019;
Ord. 1026, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 50.06 PAYMENT OF UTILITY BILL.
    All utility payments shall be made at the Finance Office in the municipal
building.
(Prior Code, § 4.01.05) (Ord. 670, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 735,
passed - -; Ord. 1026, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 50.07 PAST DUE ACCOUNT COLLECTIONS.
    Customers with a delinquent account balance will continue to receive a bill
for two months after services are disconnected or provided. Late fees will
continue to accrue during this time. After two months, the customer deposit
will be applied to the account balance. Any customer with a remaining balance
after applying the deposit will be notified by certified mail with a 30-day
deadline for payment from the date of mailing. Any balances unpaid after the
30-day deadline will be pursued for collection by a third-party collection
agency contracted by the city. The city will release all customer account
information to the third-party collection agency. The same will apply if no
customer deposit is on file.
(Ord. 941, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 1026, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 50.08 RETENTION OF UNCLAIMED UTILITY REFUNDS.
    The Finance Officer shall make reasonable efforts to locate the intended
recipient of a utility refund. If after reasonable efforts are made and the
intended recipient does not collect the refund funds, the Finance Office shall
retain the uncollected funds for one year. If after one year the funds remain
uncollected, the money shall be turned over to the State Treasurer to be
included in the State Treasurer's unclaimed property lists.
(Ord. 942, passed 12-30-2019; Ord. 1026, passed 4-18-2022; Ord. 1037, passed 8-
15-2022)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
51.01   Establishment of authority
   
51.02   Membership agreement
   
51.03   Temporary service
   
51.04   Connections and disconnections
   
51.05   Service entrances
   
51.06   Electric meter location
   
51.07   Access to premises
   
51.08   Relocation of inaccessible meter
   
51.09   Procedure for requests to bury electric wires
   
51.10   Installation of renewable energy electric system and emergency backup
generators in any property served by the City Electric Department
§ 51.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The city authorizes the City Electric Department to occupy any of the
streets, alleys or public places of the city for the transmission, distribution
and sale of electric power within the limits of the city.
   (B)   This authorization includes the right to use the streets, alleys and
public places of the city in the manner and for the purpose set forth as
follows:
      (1)   Shall erect, operate and maintain a complete, adequate and
sufficient electric distribution system within the limits of said city, which
shall be in all respects fully adequate to supply the demand of the city and
inhabitants thereof with electricity for light, heat and power purposes; and
      (2)   Shall conform to all reasonable regulations prescribed by the
Council to prevent the injury to streets, alleys, sidewalks and public places
and to persons and property. The conducting wires and poles on which the same
are erected, must be of such material and construction as the governing body of
said city shall approve and must be placed and located under the supervision of
said governing body or such officer of the city as may be designated by said
governing body. No poles, conduits or wires shall be set on the Main Street of
said city; and where it is necessary to cross Main Street with electric wires
or poles, the poles for said wires shall in all cases be set at least six feet
from said Main Street and such poles shall be of sufficient height to carry
such wire at an elevation sufficient not to interfere with the normal use of
said Main Street and in no event shall such poles be less than 35 feet in
height.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.01) (Ord. 202, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -)
§ 51.02 MEMBERSHIP AGREEMENT.
   The city has membership in the Missouri River Energy Services.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.02) (Ord. 442, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -)
§ 51.03 TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   Where from good and sufficient cause, it is necessary to have electricity on
any installation before final inspection certificate is issued, the city may
issue a temporary permit, providing that all parts to which current is applied
are in a safe and satisfactory condition. Said temporary permit shall be in
effect for a period not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.03) (Ord. 283, passed - -)
§ 51.04 CONNECTIONS AND DISCONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any electric light, heat or poser company to make
any electrical connections to any structure.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.04) (Ord. 283, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -)
§ 51.05 SERVICE ENTRANCES.
   (A)   The city provides the initial overhead service line, and an upgrade
done for the city’s municipal purposes will also be provided by the city.
   (B)   Electric service line maintenance shall be the responsibility of the
customer.
   (C)   Service or entrance cabinets shall be so located that the handle of
the main disconnect thereof shall not be over six-and-one-half-feet above a
permanent floor. Conduit or cable shall be secured and permanently bonded and
grounded.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.05) (Ord. 202, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 841,
passed 5-30-2014)
§ 51.06 ELECTRIC METER LOCATION.
   All meters shall be installed in an exterior (out-of-doors) location
approved by the Electric Department Supervisor. The meter socket shall be
located on one of the two closest sides of the structure to the transformer
from which the power will be supplied. The meter socket shall be mounted
between four feet and five feet above the proposed final grade to the center of
the meter.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.06) (Ord. 841, passed 5-30-2014)
§ 51.07 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The customer shall provide and maintain, at the customer’s expense and
subject to approval by the city, an easily accessible location where the meter
is located, and the city shall be authorized and shall have the right-of-way to
such location for installation, replacement or inspection of any service line
or meter.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.07) (Ord. 841, passed 5-30-2014)
§ 51.08 RELOCATION OF INACCESSIBLE METER.
   Where a meter’s location has been rendered inaccessible to the city by
virtue of alteration, new construction or otherwise, the customer shall, upon
request by the city, provide for the relocation of the meter, at the customer’s
expense, to a location that is in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. If the customer fails to comply within 90 days of the city’s request,
the city shall be authorized to disconnect the electric service, following ten
days’ written notice, until the meter has been relocated to an acceptable
location, and the service will not then be reconnected until the reconnection
fee has been paid.
(Prior Code, § 4.02.08) (Ord. 841, passed 5-30-2014)
§ 51.09 PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTS TO BURY ELECTRIC WIRES.
   The city may choose to bury electric wires, through a plan created by Public
Works, by block(s) on a budgeted basis until the entire city has underground
wires. If a private citizen wants his or her electric wire buried by the city,
prior to their block being completed, the private citizen can contact the city
to make that request. Any bury request fulfilled by the city will be at the
private citizen’s individual expense.
(Ord. 921, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 51.10 INSTALLATION OF RENEWABLE ENERGY ELECTRIC SYSTEM AND EMERGENCY BACKUP
GENERATORS IN ANY PROPERTY SERVED BY THE CITY ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
   Any property owner shall have the right to select and install upon their
property a renewable energy electric system, such as a solar or wind generation
system, and/or an emergency backup generator. Any connection made to the
electric system within the property shall be made in accordance with all
applicable state and federal requirements and, in order to protect electric
workers and emergency responders, such connection shall not create any
interconnection with the city's electric distribution system. Such installation
shall be required to be inspected and certified by the State Electric Inspector
to be in compliance with all legal requirements, with a copy of such
certification being provided to the Winner Electric Superintendent. The
property owner shall give notice to the Winner Electric Superintendent of such
installation, which installation shall be subject to inspection by the City
Electric Superintendent at least annually, to include shutting of the city
electricity and ensuring that the renewable energy electricity system and/or
the emergency backup generator, is not feeding back into the city electric
system. At any time any alteration or replacement is made in the components
connecting the renewable energy system and/or the emergency backup generator to
the property, it must again be inspected by the Winner Electric Superintendent.
(Ord. 978, passed 12-30-2020)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Establishment of authority
   
52.02   Water restrictions
   
52.03   City water mains as a heating and cooling source
   
52.04   Tap installation
   
52.05   Service lines
   
52.06   Meters
   
52.07   Leaking service lines
   
52.08   Water shut off
   
52.09   Water turn on
   
52.10   Violation of any provision
   
52.11   Private water source; cross-connection with city water system
prohibited
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter concerns the system of waterworks of the city and
establishes the water rates, rules, regulations and penalties for the
government of water consumers, contractors, licensed plumbers and others.
   (B)   All rules, regulations and ordinances of the city governing water
usage shall be considered a part of the contract with every person who is
supplied with water through the water system of the city and every such person
by taking water shall be considered to express his, her or their assent to be
bound thereby and whenever any of them are violated or such others as the
Council may hereafter adopt, the water shall be cut off from the building or
place of violation.
   (C)   No person shall willfully or carelessly break, injure, mar, deface,
interfere with or disturb any building, machinery, apparatus, fixtures,
attachments or appurtenances of the waterworks of said city, or any public or
private hydrant or stop cock, meter, water supply or service pipe, or any part
thereof; nor shall any person deposit anything in any stop cock box or commit
any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the above
mentioned property.
   (D)   All the hydrants erected in said city for the purpose of extinguishing
fires are hereby declared to be public hydrants and no person (other than the
members of the Fire Department and then only for the uses and purposes of said
Department, or persons specially authorized by the Council, and then only in
the exercise of the authority delegated by the Council) shall open any of said
hydrants or attempt to draw water from the same, or at any time uncover or
remove any protection from any of the hydrants of said city, or in any manner
interfere with any of the hydrants.
      (1)   No person authorized to open hydrants shall delegate his or her
authority to another, or let out or suffer any person to take away the wrenches
furnished him or her, or suffer the same to be taken from any house of said
city except for the purposes strictly connected with the Fire Department, or as
they accompany hose trucks on occasions of fires.
      (2)   If proprietors of lumber yards, factories, halls, stores,
elevators, warehouses, hotels or public buildings, or regular consumers of
water from the waterworks, wish to lay large pipes with hydrants and hose
couplings to be used only in case of fire, they will be permitted to connect
with the street mains at their own expense upon the application and will be
allowed to use water for fire purposes only, free of charge. Such connections
must be made under the supervision of the City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.01) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
52.99
§ 52.02 WATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Superintendent shall have available and furnish all records
necessary to determine the uses of water restricted by this section.
   (B)   The use and withdrawal of water by any person for the following
purposes is hereby subject to regulation by resolution of the Council:
      (1)   Watering. The sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery,
trees, grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, flowers or any
other vegetation;
      (2)   Washing mobile equipment. The washing of automobiles, trucks,
trailers, trailer-houses or any other type of mobile equipment; and
      (3)   Cleaning outdoor surfaces. The washing of sidewalks, driveways,
aprons, porches and other outdoor surfaces.
   (C)   The City Superintendent shall have the authority to permit a
reasonable use of water in any case necessary to maintain adequate health and
sanitation standards.
   (D)   The City Superintendent shall have the authority to enforce the
provisions of this chapter by the discontinuance of water service in the event
of violation hereof.
   (E)   Watering schedule:
      (1)   Hours for watering. 6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.; 5:00 a.m. to 10:00
a.m.; and
      (2)   Days for watering.
         (a)   Houses with uneven house numbers would water on uneven-numbered
calendar days.
         (b)   Houses with even house numbers would water on even-numbered
calendar days.
   (F)   The Mayor will issue the order for water restrictions when warranted.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.02) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 466, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 CITY WATER MAINS AS A HEATING AND COOLING SOURCE.
   (A)   Only buildings owned by governmental units are eligible to use the
city’s water main as a heating and cooling source.
   (B)   No connections of any governmental building shall be made to the
city’s water main for heating or cooling purposes without the governmental unit
owning the building and first obtaining permission from the Council. In seeking
permission, the governmental unit owning the building shall file with the City
Finance Officer all plans for connecting to the water mains for heating and
cooling, and said plans shall be specifically approved by the Council.
   (C)   Any government entity owning a building that obtains approval from the
Council to connect to the city water mains for heating and cooling purposes
shall pay to the city a fee of $0.04 per square foot per year, of the area
heated by the system using the city’s water mains as a heating and cooling
source. The usage payments shall be divided into 12 equal payments and shall be
payable monthly. Delinquent payments shall be collected in the same manner as
other delinquent utility payments and shall be subject to the same rate of
interest.
   (D)   The one commercial business presently using the city’s water mains for
a heating and cooling source shall pay to the city a fee of $0.08 per square
foot per year of the area heated by the system using the city’s water mains as
a heating and cooling source. The usage payments shall be divided into 12 equal
payments and shall be payable monthly. Delinquent payments shall be collected
in the same manner as other delinquent utility payments and shall be subject to
the same rate of interest.
   (E)   Any government entity owning a building that obtains approval for the
use of the city’s water mains as a heating and cooling source shall execute a
hold harmless agreement that shall be binding upon the owner and any
successors, heirs, administrators or assignees. The hold harmless agreement
shall state that the owner of the governmental building shall be solely
responsible and totally liable for any contamination or damage to the city’s
water sources and mains arising from the use of the heating and cooling system.
Further, there is presently one commercial business using the city’s water
mains as a heating and cooling source and said business is grandfathered in and
the hold harmless agreement herein applies to said business.
   (F)   The governmental entity owning a building who obtains approval for the
use of the city’s water mains as a heating and cooling system shall ensure the
quality of the water returning to the city’s main by doing the following:
      (1)   Install taps on the influent and effluent lines of the heating and
cooling system. The purpose of the taps shall be for the taking of water
samples before the water has been discharged into the city’s mains;
      (2)   The expense and costs involved in placing, installing and
maintaining the taps described shall be born by the governmental entity owning
the building using the city’s water main for heating or cooling purposes;
      (3)   (a)   Any government entity owning a building that uses the city’s
water main for heating or cooling purposes agrees to install the above-
mentioned taps and hereby consents to city inspectors obtaining water samples,
both influent and effluent, from each building site for testing as follows:
 
Copper/lead                       As determined by the Superintendent
Synthetic organic chemicals (SOC) As determined by the Superintendent
Total coliform                    Monthly
Volatile organic chemicals (VOC)  As determined by the Superintendent
 
         (b)   The city shall take a sample of the water from the influent and
effluent taps as set out above and send the same to an appropriate laboratory
for analysis to determine if there are any contaminates in the water caused by
circulation through the heating and cooling system. Additionally, the
laboratory costs for analyzing the water samples for contaminates as described
above, shall be born by the governmental entity owning the building that is
using the city’s water main for heating and cooling.
      (4)   The city shall take any other samples of the water from the
influent and effluent taps as it deems necessary to ensure the quality of the
drinking water. The cost of these tests shall be at the expense of the city.
   (G)   If any contamination or damage to the city’s water sources of mains
arises from the use of the heating or cooling systems, the city may disconnect
the city’s water mains from the cooling and heating system and prohibit further
use by the governmental building of the water mains for heating and cooling.
   (H)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all users of the city’s
water main for heating and cooling, including those users connected to the
city’s water main for heating and cooling purposes prior to the adoption of
this section.
   (I)   Any government entity that obtains permission from the city to use the
water main for heating or cooling purposes agrees to hold the city harmless
from any injuries, damages or interruptions of business that might occur if it
is necessary for the city to shut off the water service to the governmental
building for purposes of maintenance or repair upon water lines.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.03) (Ord. 677, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 52.04 TAP INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The city requires 48 hours’ notice, excluding weekends and holidays,
to install a tap in the main. Taps shall not be installed until all fees are
paid.
   (B)   No person, except an employee of the city waterworks, person under
contract with the city, or plumbers duly licensed by resolution of the Council,
as hereinafter provided, shall do any work on any pipes or connections made
with the mains, or insert stop cocks or ferrules therein, or in any way or
under any circumstances interfere with the water supply of the city.
   (C)   In case the city deems it expedient to allow such work as is mentioned
in this section to be done by contract, then in that event, it shall only be
done, after due notice has been published in the official newspaper of the city
for one week; said notice to contain the date when sealed bids will be received
by the Council, the nature and character of the work and all such bids must be
accompanied with a certified check in the amount fixed by the Council in notice
to be published as evidence of good faith and all contracts shall then be let
to the lowest bidder. The Council shall at all time reserve the right to reject
any and all bids. All persons receiving a contract for such work shall, before
entering into said contract, execute and deposit with the City Finance Officer
a bond with two or more sufficient sureties or surety bond to be approved by
the Council in the penal sum deemed necessary by the Council, conditioned that
he or she will construct said work and furnish the material according to the
plans and specifications and that he or she will save harmless and indemnify
the city of and from all accidents and damages caused by any negligence in
prosecuting and protecting his or her work, and that he or she will restore all
earth, pavement and other material in and over any opening he or she may have
made in laying any of the service pipes and for any other purpose, to as good a
state and condition as it was before such opening was made, and keep and
maintain the same in good order and to the satisfaction of the City
Superintendent or Council for a period of one month thereafter.
   (D)   (1)   The Council shall have the right to approve or reject any
application for water tap outside of the city limits. It will be necessary for
the Council to at all times take into consideration any hazard or
responsibility to the patrons in the city before such application is approved.
      (2)   If application is approved, it will be necessary for applicant to
pay all expense of making said tap including transportation of City
Superintendent at the rate per mile or fraction thereof.
      (3)   The tap must be made under the supervision and direction of the
City Superintendent. At any time the Council finds it is necessary to shut off
the water, it have the right to do so without any recourse from the customer.
      (4)   The city shall not be responsible for the cost of any maintenance,
repair or replacement of an individual water service line outside of the city
limits, once it is attached to the water main. Any costs incurred in
maintenance, repair or replacement of the service line, shut off, meter, or
other components shall be the sole responsibility of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.04) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 796,
passed - -; Ord. 977, passed 12-21-2020)
§ 52.05 SERVICE LINES.
   The property owner will be responsible for the cost of installation and
materials of service line from, and including, the curb stop to the building
for which it is intended.
   (A)   The property owner shall install a curb stop and box at or as near as
possible to the property line. The property owner shall use an approved pipe of
at least the grade “k” type copper or an AWWA approved plastic at least 200
pounds test from the curb stop to the meter.
   (B)   All service lines will be at a minimum of one inch with the exception
of those in existing trailer parks that can have a minimum of a three-quarter
inch service line.
   (C)   All service pipes must be laid as much under the surface of the ground
as the depth of the main in the street. In all cases the pipe is to be
protected so as to prevent rupture from freezing. All service pipes must be
provided with a means to trace the line by electronic means. The location of
the connection point to that location device shall be reported to the office of
the City Finance Officer within ten days of the completion of installation and
is to be measured from two property lines. The plumber making or installing the
water service must, within ten days of installation, complete the taping record
in the office of the City Finance Officer furnishing location of the service
curb box in feet from two lot lines.
   (D)   No water user shall be permitted to repair any iron service when such
service breaks or in any way causes a leak, it shall be replaced with approved
pipe, at the expense of the water user or property owner and shall be installed
under the supervision of the City Superintendent.
   (E)   The Council shall at all times have the power to change or adopt any
rules or regulations by presenting the same in form of an ordinance at any
regular or adjourned meeting and such action shall become effective upon the
passage and publication of such resolution.
   (F)   No person, consumer, owner or occupant of premises shall be permitted
to construct or lay water pipes across another lot, lots or fraction thereof to
other premises for serving or supplying water for domestic or commercial use.
All water service pipes shall enter on the street at the front of the building
nearest the sidewalk. No more than one house shall be piped or connected with
water mains or line from the same tap. Any person, consumer, owner or occupant
of premises who are getting water from the city water distribution system is
not permitted to dispose or barter any water registered through his or her
water meter without first making application to the Council setting forth what
the possible amount consumed will be and obtaining a special rate from the
Council for that purpose.
   (G)   Water lines and sewer lines are prohibited from being placed in the
same ditch. They must be at least ten feet apart.
   (H)   Every service pipe must be provided with an I. V. Minneapolis Pattern,
like Mueller No. G-15150 or its equal stopcock for each consumer placed outside
the lot line easily accessible and so situated so that the water can be
conveniently shut off. All stop cocks in the line of the service pipe or
branches under the ground must be stops with circular waterways of the same
diameter of the waterways as the pipe in which each are placed and be in every
respect as required by the Council or the City Superintendent.
   (I)   Unless otherwise permitted, stop cocks shall be placed in the service
line or the outer edge of the property line and protected by a box or pipe
reaching from the tap to the surface of the ground of suitable size to admit a
stop key for turning on and off the stop; also with a heavy metal cover,
visible and even with the pavement.
   (J)   The meter box should be at least ten feet from the hydrant box.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.05) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 592, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 785, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 818, passed - -)
§ 52.06 METERS.
   (A)   The city has opted to utilize an automatic read meter (ARM) system to
more accurately and more efficiently obtain meter readings at appropriate
times. The ARM system involves a meter that is connected to or through a
gateway which transmits the meter data to the city.
   (B)   Any new installation of a standard water meter shall be required to
have the ARM system. All existing water meters will also require conversion to
the ARM system. These standard ARM meter/dials shall be installed at the
discretion of the city.
      (1)   The customer receiving such service shall pay a one time minimum
charge plus tax. Any customer receiving such service shall pay any additional
plumbing fee as required to make a standard ARM installation.
      (2)   The installation of all water meters to any residential or
commercial entity shall be purchased and installed at the expense of the
residential or commercial user.
      (3)   All water meters servicing any residential or commercial users
shall be deemed owned by the user. If any repair, maintenance or replacement is
required on any such water meter connected to the city water system, then the
users shall be responsible for all of the expenses involved in such
replacement, maintenance or repair of the water meter, but the ARM components
belong to and are the responsibility of the city.
      (4)   The city shall have the right to inspect all water meters servicing
any residential or commercial users. If the water meter is not properly
measuring the amount of water that goes through the meter, then the city will
notify the residential or commercial owner of the meter to repair the same. In
the event that the user of the meter does not repair the meter, the city shall
have the right of ingress and egress upon the property to repair or, if needed,
replace the water meter. The city will then bill the costs of repairs and/or
replacement of the meter to the owner of the meter and such costs will be on
the monthly utility bill. If the meter repair or replacement is not made, the
city may enforce the collection of the repair or maintenance in the same
fashion as the city may collect on a water bill. If the water meter, at any
commercial business or residence, is not functioning properly because of any
negligence on behalf of the city, then the city shall be responsible for the
repair and/or maintenance of such water meter.
      (5)   In the event that a water meter must be replaced or repaired as set
out above, the commercial or residential entities must purchase any replacement
water meter through the city, at city’s cost. The purpose is for the city to
ensure that quality water meters are installed.
      (6)   All water meters installed by residential or commercial users after
April 4, 2000 shall have shut-off valves on both sides of the meter and shall
have dual check valves installed in front of the meter. If any water meters
need to be replaced or repaired, the costs shall be borne by the water user.
However, if any repair or replacement is required because of negligence of the
city, the city shall be responsible for the cost of repair or replacement,
including the labor therein.
      (7)   All water meters, couplings and seals purchased by residential or
commercial users must be purchased through the city and all meters will be sold
at the city’s cost. The purpose is to ensure that all water meters will be
standardized within the city and will be quality meters.
      (8)   All meter installations shall be in a readily accessible location
and protected from climatic conditions.
      (9)   No person, unless authorized by the city, shall connect,
disconnect, remove, repair or otherwise disturb any water meters or ARM
components used to record water use and transmit the data to the city.
      (10)   If for any reason access cannot be gained to a water meter for
reading or repairing purposes and if the obstruction to the reading or
repairing of such water meter is not removed within five days after written
notice is given to the owner or occupant of the property, the water shall be
turned off by the city and will not be turned on again until such obstruction
is removed and upon the payment of any fees to the City Finance Officer of the
city and a receipt issued therefor. When the water has been shut off because of
delinquency or other infringements it cannot be turned on again until a
certificate is issued authorizing the City Superintendent that the same may be
turned on. In addition, if voluntary access is not provided within five days
after written notice is given to the owner of the property, there shall be
applied to each monthly water bill a water meter surcharge in the amount of $25
which must be paid along with other utility charges, and failure or refusal to
pay the surcharge will result in shutting off of the water service following
notice to the account holder, following which the water service will be turned
on only upon payment of all fees and delinquent amounts and upon compliance
with this section. As of May 1, 2019, the water meter surcharge will increase
to $50 per month which must be paid along with other utility charges, and
failure or refusal to pay the surcharge will result in shutting off of the
water service following notice to the account holder, following which the water
service will be turned on only upon payment of all fees and delinquent amounts
and upon compliance with this section.
      (11)   If for any cause a meter fails to register the amount of water
used for any month, the amount of water so used shall be estimated by the City
Superintendent; said estimates to be based on the average amount of water
registered during a like period, under like conditions, considering usage and
number of persons living in the premises.
      (12)   Every person taking water supplied through the water system of the
city shall permit the City Superintendent at all hours of the day between 7:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. to enter his or her premises or building to examine the
pipes and fixtures and the manner in which the water is used; and he or she
must at all times frankly and without concealment answer all questions put to
him or her relative to his or her consumption. Failure to comply with this
section may result in the shutting off of water service following notice as
provided in division (B)(10) above.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.06) (Ord. 132, passed - -; Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 553,
passed - -; Ord. 722, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -;
Ord. 875, passed - -; Ord. 920, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 52.07 LEAKING SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   In those cases where an owner of real estate whose water line connects
to a curb stop has a leak, he or she shall have four working days (Monday
through Friday) to begin the repairs to the effected water line after the city
has notified the property owner of the water leak and has located the area
where the leak is occurring.
   (B)   If the property owner fails or is unable to obtain a contractor to
repair the water leak in the water line within the time frame set out above,
the city may have its employees repair the water line at the expense of the
property owner as set out hereinafter.
   (C)   If the repair of any leaks in water lines owned by the property owner
which connect the owners appurtenances to the curb stop causes the removal or
damage to any concrete in the public right-of-way, the damaged concrete must be
replaced by the property owner within ten working days after the repair of the
water line is completed and if the property owner fails to repair such
concrete, the city may hire a contractor to replace the concrete at the
property owner’s expense as set out hereafter.
   (D)   If it is required because of failure of the owner to repair leaks in
any water lines owned by the owner and it is necessary for the city to fix such
leaks as set out above, the rate charged by the city will be greater than the
rate charged by local contractors because the city is not in the practice of
competing with private contractors in the city area.
   (E)   If the city becomes aware that a water line owned by a property owner
is leaking from the city’s main to the appurtenances owned by the property
owner, the city shall give written notice to the property owner by certified
mail and after notice is given, the property owner shall have four days to
repair such leak as set out above.
   (F)   The city will furnish to the property owner, at the time notice of the
water leak is given to the property owner, a current list of local contractors
and a copy of this chapter.
   (G)   If the city is required to repair leaking water lines owned by a
property owner from the curb stop to appurtenances owned by the property owner,
the cost of such repairs or the replacement of concrete in the public right-of-
way shall be assessed against the real estate as a special assessment under the
provisions of state law and the city shall send to the property owner an
invoice setting out the cost for the city’s repairs which will be assessed
against the real estate in the form of a special assessment if the property
owner fails to pay the invoiced amount within a period of two weeks after
notice is given to the property owner of the amount of the repairs.
   (H)   If the city causes any damages to a curb stop that is owned by a
property owner, the city will assume the responsibility of the cost of fixing
the curb stop and the city will have the curb stop fixed.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.07) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 778,
passed - -; Ord. 818, passed - -)
§ 52.08 WATER SHUT OFF.
   When water has been shut off from the premises, the consumer shall not turn
it on or permit it to be done without the consent of the City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.08) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
52.99
§ 52.09 WATER TURN ON.
   The water shall not be turned on in any house or private service pipe except
upon the consent of the City Superintendent nor until the applicant shall have
paid the required deposits; and plumbers and others are strictly prohibited
from turning water into any service pipe except upon the consent of the City
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.09) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 796,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10 VIOLATION OF ANY PROVISION.
   If any owner of any property fronting or abutting on any street or avenue as
aforesaid shall fail, refuse or neglect to lay, construct or replace any and
all water service pipes, and connections as required by the provisions of this
chapter, or shall in any manner violate any of the provisions hereof, then it
shall be the duty of the City Superintendent, and he or she is hereby required,
to cut off the city water supply at such premises without additional notice,
and each and every person whose water supply is thus cut off shall not be
permitted to turn on said water and lay the pipe and connections as required
without the permission of the City Superintendent and upon complying with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.10) (Ord. 144, passed - -; Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 PRIVATE WATER SOURCE; CROSS-CONNECTION WITH CITY WATER SYSTEM
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Owners of property may install their own private water source upon
their property, for irrigation or other lawful purpose, so long as the same are
done in compliance with all federal and state laws and regulations. However, no
private water source, whether it be a private well, auxiliary water source,
cistern, rainwater collection system or otherwise, may be connected to the
water lines within any property, if the said water lines are connected to the
city water system. Cross-connection of any water source with the city water
system is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Any owner of property which is connected to the city water system,
whether or not such property is located within the city limits, shall, prior to
drilling or making connection to a private well, provide the city with a copy
of a valid permit therefor issued by the state. All such private water sources
shall be subject to inspection by the City Water Department Supervisor to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.11) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 864,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any government entity that uses the city’s water main for heating and
cooling purposes and does not comply with the regulations for testing shall be
in violation and as such, shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor each day
such violation is committed, or permitted to continue, and shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such, pursuant to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4.03.03) (Ord. 677, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
CHAPTER 53: WASTEWATER
Section
   
53.01   Connection required
   
53.02   Unlawful acts
   
53.03   Private wastewater disposal
   
53.04   Connections
   
53.05   Discharge
   
53.06   Special requirements
   
53.07   Compliance
   
53.08   Disputes
   
53.09   Rates
   
53.10   Violations
   
53.11   Storm sewer fee
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city
is hereby required at the owner(s) expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ten days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 50 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.01) (Ord. 564, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 53.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part
of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct;
   (B)   Place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the city or in any area under the
jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste;
   (C)   Discharge to any natural outlet within the city or in any area under
the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   Construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater except as
hereinafter provided; or
   (E)   Uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter or
disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a
written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.02) (Ord. 192, passed - -; Ord. 489, passed - -; Ord. 564,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.04, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $100 shall be paid to the city
at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Public Health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private
wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than 3,200 square feet (square meter). No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
53.05(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the
city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.03) (Ord. 564, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 53.04 CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection before mentioned.
      (2)   The main sewer drain of every house or building shall be separately
and independently connected to the sewer where the sewer is in front or along
the side or rear of said building, and where it is necessary to construct a
private sewer to connect with the sewer in an adjacent street, such sewer plans
may be used as shall be approved by the City Engineer or the City
Superintendent. When it is desired to connect two or more buildings with one
branch or lateral sewer, the person desiring to do so shall first file a plan
of such sewer with the Finance Officer and the City Superintendent shall
inspect the same and make his or her recommendations thereon and submit the
same to the Council for approval or rejection. Also an easement shall be taken
out and filed by the applicant with the City Finance Officer and recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of the county, when crossing private
property.
   (C)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A back water check valve of four inches or larger shall be installed
in all new sewer lines constructed or replaced sewer lines in all residential
and commercial construction.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (G)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the Superintendent
for purpose of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   (H)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code or other applicable
rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All
such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight and verified by proper
testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (I)   In tapping the main sewer line, all sewer laterals connecting
therewith shall be laid at an angle of 45 degrees and in such manner that such
sewer pipe can be rodded.
   (J) The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.05) (Ord. 214, passed - -; Ord. 564, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
§ 53.05 DISCHARGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage or cooling water to any sewer, except stormwater runoff from limited
areas, which stormwater may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the
sanitary sewer by permission of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Stormwater, other than that exempted under division (A) above, and all
other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, to a natural outlet
approved by the Superintendent and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than (5.5) or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction of the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   (1)   The following described substances, materials, waters or waste
shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems or concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process
or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will
not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
The Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established
in the regulations below if in his or her opinion such more severe limitations
are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to
the acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors
as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent
factors.
      (2)   The limitations or restrictions on material or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
         (a)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
         (b)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils or product of mineral oil origin;
         (c)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat
or grease;
         (d)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage
grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from home, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
         (e)   Any waters of wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances
exceeding limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both, which constitute a
“slug” as defined in §
11.01 of this code of ordinances;
         (i)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
         (j)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which in the judgment
of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create
a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
53.06(D).
      (2)   When considering the above alternatives, the Superintendent shall
give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the
discharger. If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.06) (Ord. 564, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 53.06 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts as
specified in §
53.05(D) or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except
that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the Public Works Director and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Public Works Director. Any removal and hauling of the collected material not
performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms.
      (1)   A grease trap or grease interceptor shall be required to receive
the drainage from fixtures and equipment with grease-laden waste located in
food preparation areas, such as in restaurants, hospitals, nursing homes and
elderly living facilities, school kitchens, bars, restaurants, clubs or any
commercial venture that cooks and sells food.
      (2)   The user at the user's expense shall maintain all grease traps to
assure proper operation and efficiency and prevent disposal of grease into the
city’s sanitary sewer collection system. Maintenance of a grease trap shall
include the complete removal of all content, including floating materials,
wastewater, and bottom sludge and solids. Discharging of removed waste back
into the trap from which it was removed or any other grease trap, for the
purpose of reducing the volume to be disposed, is prohibited. This service
shall also include a thorough inspection of the trap and its components. Any
needed repairs shall be noted. Repairs shall be made at the user's expense.
      (3)   The grease trap must be emptied and maintained according to the
manufacturer’s recommendation, frequently enough to prevent disposal or carry
over of grease into the city’s sanitary sewer system.
      (4)   All waste removed from each grease trap must be disposed of in a
lawful manner through a hauler of animal waste or other disposal manner
authorized by state law. In no way shall any portion of the waste material be
returned to any private or public portion of the city's sanitary sewer
collection system.
      (5)   A grease trap in any facility listed in division (A)(1), above, is
subject to inspection by the Public Works Director or designee. If the grease
trap is in violation of this section, the owner or operator of the facility
will be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and subject to being punished in
accordance with § 10.99 of this code. In addition, a civil penalty shall be
imposed for the equipment, materials and labor expended by the city in
remediating the grease from the city’s sanitary sewer collection system, based
upon the resolution in effect for such costs. If those costs are not paid to
the city within 60 days of billing, they shall be turned over to collections.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (C)   When required by the Public Works Director, the owner(s) of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessible
and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the Public Works Director. The structure shall be installed by the owner at
his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (D)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.07) (Ord. 564, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 1068,
passed 12-4-2023)
§ 53.07 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer services to
provide information needed to determine compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   These requirements may include:
         (a)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
         (b)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
         (c)   Information on raw material, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
         (d)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil,
solvent or other materials important to sewer use control;
         (e)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
         (f)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
         (g)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of
materials through spills to the municipal sewer.
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (C)   (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of all
sanitary sewers including building sewers, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or
other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of suitable
code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9 shall apply.
      (2)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are
authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes that have a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (D)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes that have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (E)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited, to inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (F)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (E) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company growing out of
the gauging and sampling operation except as such may be caused by negligence
or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in division
(A) above.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.08) (Ord. 564, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 53.08 DISPUTES.
   (A)   A Hearing Board shall be appointed as needed for arbitration of
differences between the Superintendent and sewer users on matters concerning
interpretation and execution of the provisions of this chapter by the
Superintendent. The cost of the arbitration will be divided equally between the
municipality and the sewer user.
   (B)   Members of the Board shall include:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer;
      (2)   A practicing sanitary engineer;
      (3)   A representative of industry or manufacturing enterprise;
      (4)   A lawyer; and
      (5)   One member shall be selected at large for his or her interest in
accomplishing the objectives of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.09) (Ord. 564, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 53.09 RATES.
   (A)   The rates shall be established by the Council at any regular meeting
upon proper presentation of an ordinance setting forth the rate. The rate shall
become effective after passage and publication of the ordinance.
   (B)   For irrigation purposes of lawns and gardens, residential customers
that receive a utility bill for use of the sanitary sewer may apply to the
Finance Officer in charge of utility billing for a reduction in their summer
sanitary sewer rate. The reduction in rates will be given for water used by the
resident in the months of May, June, July, August and September. Such rate will
be based on the residential customer’s average water used for the months of
January, February and March. The residential customer’s billing statement for
July, August, September, October and November will reflect this reduced rate.
Residential customers must apply for this reduction to the Finance Officer by
June 1 to receive the full five-month reduction. Once a residential customer
has signed up and qualified for the reduced rate, the qualification will remain
in place and will continue to be applied so long as the utility account remains
in the same name under which it qualified.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.10) (Ord. 564, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 762,
passed - -; Ord. 804, passed - -; Ord. 996, passed 4-19-2021; Ord. 1029, passed
5-2-2022)
§ 53.10 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except §
53.08, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.11) (Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 53.11 STORM SEWER FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a storm sewer fee in the sum of $1 per
month to be billed to each active utility account. The funds derived from the
collection of this fee shall be applied to storm sewer construction and
maintenance costs.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, an active utility account shall mean an
account which is billed every month for at least one city utility service,
whether or not the property is occupied.
   (C)   The storm sewer fee shall be imposed starting January 1, 2022, and
every month thereafter.
(Ord. 1015, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall continue any violation, beyond the time limit provided
for in §
53.10, shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 4.04.12) (Ord. 214, passed - -; Ord. 564, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
 CHAPTER 54: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
54.01   Establishment of authority
   
54.02   Billing
   
54.03   Waste receptacles
   
54.04   Preparation of garbage and refuse for collection
   
54.05   Waste reduction; recycling
   
54.06   Collection dates and location; garbage trucks
   
54.07   Method of disposal; restrictions
   
54.08   Rates for service
   
54.09   Mandatory payment of monthly fees
   
54.10   Additional garbage collection in certain circumstances; fees
   
54.11   Sufficient capacity for dumpsters and services; fees
   
54.12   Unlawful dumping of prohibited items at city landfill
§ 54.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF AUTHORITY.
   The city has the authority to contract for solid waste pickup and disposal
from within the corporate limits of the city, to operate a municipal rubble
site at the city landfill, and to operate a recycling program. Each of these
shall operate together as the Sanitation Program, which shall be conducted as
an enterprise operated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.01) (Ord. 724, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 1050,
passed 5-15-2023)
§ 54.02 BILLING.
   The city shall bill monthly for solid waste pickup and disposal for the
previous month’s solid waste services. The contractor shall notify the city for
any additional charges each month. All rates shall be established by resolution
made by the City Council, subject to change at any time.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.02) (Ord. 724, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 1050,
passed 5-15-2023)
§ 54.03 WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   All outside storage of solid waste on residential lots, with the exception
of yard waste, shall be in a maximum 96-gallon capacity tote provided by the
city with a tight-fitting lid. Dumpsters or other appropriate containers
provided by the city shall be used for commercial/government applications. The
availability of any particular size of commercial container/dumpster shall be
as determined by the city from its inventory.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.03) (Ord. 259, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 929,
passed 6-17-2019 ; Ord. 1050, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 54.04 PREPARATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   All garbage shall be bagged before placing same in garbage containers;
and
   (B)   Ashes must be placed in metal containers having a capacity not to
exceed ten gallons and shall have covers.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.04) (Ord. 259, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 1050,
passed 5-15-2023)
§ 54.05 WASTE REDUCTION; RECYCLING.
   The city encourages recycling whenever possible. In order to facilitate
this, the city shall operate a program of recycling to the extent that the same
is commercially feasible and viable as determined from time to time by the
city. This may include any recycled or recyclable materials. The city may
appoint one or more of its officials or employees to act as the city’s broker
of these materials. Recycled materials may include aluminum cans, scrap metals,
tires, cardboard, or other materials for which the city may obtain a market for
disposal other than in a landfill. The city may establish such administrative
processes and procedures as it shall determine to be appropriate for the
operation of the recycling program(s). For the recycling of items for which the
city will incur expenses for disposal, such as used tires, the city shall be
authorized to collect such reasonable disposal fees as the city may determine
by resolution. For recycling of items for which the city may realize some
income or financial benefit, the city may be authorized to pay reasonable rates
to the person or entity delivering such material to the city’s recycling center
as the city’s broker may determine.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.05) (Ord. 697, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 1024,
passed 4-4-2022 ; Ord. 1050, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 54.06 COLLECTION DATES AND LOCATION; GARBAGE TRUCKS.
   (A)   The contractor shall designate trash collection day(s) for all areas
of the city, both residential and commercial. Residential service shall be once
per week according to the schedule established by the contractor, which
information shall be disseminated to the city residents.
   (B)   The residential trash receptacle(s) shall be placed curbside in the
location and manner specified by the contractor by not later than 7:00 a.m. on
the designated trash collection day.
   (C)   Collection dates for commercial customers shall be as determined by
the contractor in cooperation with the individual customers in order to
reasonably accommodate the customer’s commercial needs based on the amount of
trash produced, the size of trash container utilized by the customer as
determined by the contractor and by the city. Once pickup dates are determined,
the contractor shall provide notice thereof to the applicable customers and to
the city. In the commercial areas, trash containers shall be placed in the
alley as directed by the contractor. Where no alley exists, commercial
businesses shall provide a proper location for the trash container as
determined in cooperation with the contractor.
   (D)   (1)   The garbage trucks used by the contractor must be specifically
designed for garbage collection/sanitation service and must include two
dedicated garbage trucks so that there will always be a vehicle available even
if one is broken down. The trucks may not have a gross (loaded) weight in
excess of 55,000 pounds with a carrying capacity no larger than 27 cubic yards.
They will have a tandem axle in the rear and a single steering axle. Vehicles
will be subject to being weighed at any time at the request of the city’s
Street Department Supervisor, Public Works Director, or any police officer. At
any time the contractor’s truck is found to be exceeding the weight limit in
this contract, the contractor will pay a civil assessment as follows:
         (a)   Up to 500 pounds over, no assessment.
         (b)   From 501 pounds over to 1000 pounds over, an assessment of $100.
         (c)   More than 1000 pounds over, an assessment of $1,000.
         (d)   More than 5,000 pounds over, an assessment of $1,000 plus an
additional cost penalty of $0.50 for every pound that the gross weight exceeds
the allowable gross weight. For example, if the gross weight is 63,000 pounds,
which is 8,000 pounds over the allowable 55,000, there is an assessment of
$1,000 plus a cost penalty of $4,000.
      (2)   Civil assessments and cost penalties shall be paid by the
contractor to the city within 30 days, subject to the contractor’s right to
appeal this assessment to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.06) (Ord. 259, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 1024,
passed 4-4-2022; Ord. 1051, passed 6-19-2023 ; Ord. 1050, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 54.07 METHOD OF DISPOSAL; RESTRICTIONS.
   Solid waste shall be disposed of as follows.
   (A)   The contractor shall deliver all collected garbage to the city’s
transfer facility under rates established by the contractor according to the
awarded bids.
   (B)   The city shall dispose of all collected garbage and refuse by delivery
thereof to an approved landfill location, currently the Tri County Landfill at
Pukwana, South Dakota as part of the city’s sanitation enterprise.
   (C)   The city shall be authorized to secure the appropriate license or
permit, to operate a transfer facility, and to provide transportation of trash
to the Tri County Landfill for city residents and its contractor, and may also
provide such services for other persons or entities for such charges and fees
as the city may establish by resolution of the City Council. Fees shall be
established to include, at a minimum, the cost of operating the transfer
station, the cost of transportation, and the cost of tipping or disposal fees
charged by the Tri County Landfill. The city shall operate the transfer station
and transportation/disposal activities as part of the sanitation enterprise.
   (D)   The city may furnish a site for the disposal of metal, treated and
untreated wood, grass clippings, leaves, branches, trees and domestic animal
carcasses by authorized users, and may impose fees therefor as part of the
city’s sanitation enterprise.
      (1)   Authorized users may dispose of wild game remains that have been
obtained through legal hunting.
      (2)   Authorized users may dispose of remains resulting from the lawful
processing of wild game for human consumption.
      (3)   The city may accept such waste from nonresidents for additional
fees.
   (E)   Burning of solid waste is prohibited within the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.07) (Ord. 259, passed - -; Ord. 261, passed - -; Ord. 796,
passed - -; Ord. 1050, passed 5-15-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.08 RATES FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish, by resolution, all rates to be
charged for the sanitation services. Generally, the fees shall be determined
based upon costs of contractor collection services, other costs incurred by the
city in its transfer station, transportation, tipping fees at the regional
landfill, administrative costs, and anticipated reasonable enterprise revenues
for the city.
   (B)   Residential/church rates shall be based upon once weekly garbage
pickup and shall include the basic trash collection tote provided by the city.
Additional charges may be set for larger amounts of trash collected, multiple
collection totes or other containers, and any other additional provision as
established by the City Council.
   (C)   Commercial/government rates shall be set to provide for standard
charges based upon the size of the container provided by the city and the
frequency of pickup. Additional charges may be set for occasional extra times
of collection, larger amounts of trash occurring occasionally, additional
containers of trash, and any other basis established by the City Council by
resolution.
   (D)   Exemptions. Any residential, church, commercial or government utility
account may apply for a once-a-year exemption with the Finance Officer if they
own more than one qualifying structure. The standards for this exemption shall
be set by policy. For purposes of this provision, a residential or church
account may not be combined with a commercial or government account for an
exemption. A customer may apply for the exemption from the Finance Officer. If
they do not agree with the decision of the Finance Officer, they may appeal it
to the Finance Committee, and if they disagree with the Finance Committee's
decision, they may appeal it to the City Council to be considered in regular
session.
   (E)   In addition to the above-described fees, each utility account in the
city shall pay an administrative access fee to permit the account holders to
access the city rubble site landfill.
   (F)   The city shall review its rate resolution at least annually to
determine any changes that are warranted.
   (G)   All residential/church and business/government waste service fees
shall be billed by the city, along with the city utility bill at the end of
each month for the proceeding month's waste services.
   (H)   (1)   Any hauler of debris to city rubble site landfill wherein the
debris comes from a person or entity not being served on a monthly basis by
garbage collection and not making payment under any of the above family or
business schedules; and any private business contractor disposing of a
customer's debris into the bury pit; in each such instance the hauler shall pay
the landfill usage rates as established by the City Council by resolution. One
rate schedule shall be established for loads originating within the city limits
as verified by a current city utility bill for the address from which the load
originated; and a different rate schedule shall be established for loads
originating outside the city limits or otherwise an unverified source due to
the lack of a current city utility bill for the address from which the load
originated.
      (2)   Wild game large animal carcasses may be disposed of without fee
during the regular season in which the animals may be lawfully hunted. However,
the fee will be imposed upon every carcass that is brought into the city
landfill by a commercial carcass disposal service or by a commercial processing
facility.
      (3)   Every hauler of debris to the city landfill shall identify, upon
request by the landfill operator, the name and address of the business, entity
or person from where the debris originated and, if from within the city, a
current city utility bill for the address from which the load originated, and
the hauler shall also give his or her name, address, business or other
information requested by the city landfill operator. This information shall be
given prior to the dumping of the debris in the city landfill.
      (4)   Any person who knowingly provides false information about the
origin of any material intended to be deposited into the city landfill shall be
guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty of up to a $500
fine and up to 30 days in jail.
   (I)   The city shall collect sales tax on all sanitation and rubble site
fees as required by South Dakota law.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.08) (Ord. 259, passed - -; Ord. 261, passed - -; Ord. 724,
passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 831, passed - -; Ord. 901, passed 6-4-
2018; Ord. 964, passed 9-21-2020; Ord. 1012, passed 10-4-2021; Ord. 1024,
passed 4-4-2022; Ord. 1050, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 54.09 MANDATORY PAYMENT OF MONTHLY FEES.
   (A)   The business and commercial rates shall be a mandatory fee on each
business in the city. The fee shall be applied to each business entity whether
the business is in the same building or structure as other businesses. The fee
shall be applied to each separate business and the business shall be required
to pay the fee even if the business’ garbage is deposited in the garbage cans
of another business or whether the business disposes of its garbage in some
other manner.
   (B)   Residential garbage fees shall be paid for each separate dwelling unit
in the city. For example, if a homeowner lives in a home and has the basement
rented out for dwelling purposes, each of the separate dwelling units in the
home shall be assessed the residential fee for garbage pickup and it shall be
mandatory that the fee be paid for each dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 4.05.09) (Ord. 706, passed - -; Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 831,
passed - -; Ord. 901, passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 1050, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 54.10 ADDITIONAL GARBAGE COLLECTION IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES; FEES.
   Whenever the city becomes aware that a dumpster or garbage container at any
location is overflowing, and the contractor is not scheduled to pick up the
garbage at that location on that day, the city will notify the contractor of
the situation. The contractor will make reasonable efforts to collect the
garbage from that location as soon as possible. The contractor will be entitled
to collect an extra fee from the customer for such additional collection
service.
(Ord. 1001, passed 6-7-2021; Ord. 1050, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 54.11 SUFFICIENT CAPACITY FOR DUMPSTERS AND SERVICES; FEES.
   (A)   The contractor shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that each
dumpster used in the city is of sufficient capacity to hold the amount of
garbage normally disposed of from each location. If a certain location is found
to have insufficient capacity, the contractor is authorized to locate
additional capacity at that location, whether it be through a larger dumpster
or additional dumpsters, or a combination thereof; and to collect its normal
fees for rental of such dumpsters. If the contractor and the property owner
agree, the need for additional capacity may also be alleviated by picking up
the garbage on a more frequent basis than has been previously occurring.
   (B)   Sufficient capacity for a commercial business location shall be
determined by an ongoing process of observation whether the dumpster(s) are
regularly or frequently found to be over-full, in which case additional
capacity will be required. However, a dumpster being over-full on an infrequent
occasion shall not require additional capacity, although it may necessitate an
additional garbage collection and the fees associated with it under §
54.10.
   (C)   Sufficient capacity for a multi-family residential facility, whether
it be an apartment building or trailer court or otherwise, when the property
owner has selected a dumpster or dumpsters to be provided for garbage
collection, shall be a single dumpster or multiple dumpsters that cumulatively
provide at least two cubic yards of capacity for every four residences.
   (D)   The property owner has an ongoing obligation to provide a suitable
surface for each dumpster, and a sufficient concrete or gravel surface for
garbage trucks to approach and dump each dumpster. For purposes of this
section, the surface is sufficient if the garbage truck can approach and pick
up the dumpster, empty it and drive away, without sinking into the surface. If
a gravel surface is utilized it shall consist of a minimum of six-inch
compacted gravel, or if concrete is utilized it shall be reinforced concrete at
least six inches thick. When the contractor determines that the surface is
insufficient under these standards, they shall notify the property owner of the
situation, and the property owner shall have an obligation to comply with these
standards in a timely manner. Until the property owner complies with these
standards, the contractor shall continue to pick up the garbage at that
location when it is feasible to do so when considering the weather and surface
conditions, but shall not be obligated to pick up the garbage at that location
when such conditions do not exist. If garbage accumulates to the point that
property violations occur because of the property owner's failure to provide a
suitable surface, those violations may be enforced against the property owner.
(Ord. 1001, passed 6-7-2021; Ord. 1050, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 54.12 UNLAWFUL DUMPING OF PROHIBITED ITEMS AT CITY LANDFILL.
   (A)   The Winner city landfill operates as a rubble site under the
regulations of the State of South Dakota. It is permitted to accept only
certain items, to be separated according to permissible categories. The
permissible categories include treated wood, untreated wood, scrap metal,
tires, plastic, and yard waste limited to grass clippings, leaves, branches and
trees. The city landfill has designated places within the property for disposal
of items in all permissible categories.
   (B)   Every person who disposes of anything at the landfill shall dispose of
each item in the designated location. Any fees that are due shall be paid at
the time of disposal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit or dispose of any
item at the Winner city landfill that is not permitted to be disposed of at the
site. In addition, it shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit or
dispose of any item at the city landfill in any location other than the place
designated to receive such item.
   (D)   Any person violating division (C) of this section shall be fined the
sum of $500 for each separate violation.
   (E)   Any motor vehicle which is used in a violation of division (C) of this
section in circumstances where the driver of the vehicle is unknown shall be
subject to a civil penalty of $500. The City Attorney shall commence a civil in
rem proceeding against a vehicle charged with being used in committing a
violation of division (C). If it is established by a preponderance of the
evidence that the charged vehicle was used in committing a violation of
division (C), the civil penalty of $500 shall be assessed against the vehicle
and shall be a lien on such vehicle until the penalty is satisfied.
   (F)   The lien imposed by division (E) of this section shall not apply to
any vehicle which at the time of the violation is leased, loaned, or being used
without the owner's permission and the lien shall be subordinate to a perfected
security interest or lien registered on the title at the time of the violation.
(Ord. 1005, passed 7-6-2021; Ord. 1024, passed 4-4-2022; Ord. 1050, passed 5-
15-2023)
CHAPTER 55: CEMETERY
Section
   
55.01   Headstones and footstones
   
55.02   Maintenance responsibilities
   
55.03   Rates
   
55.04   Casket enclosure
   
55.05   Other requirements
   
55.06   Vandalism
§ 55.01 HEADSTONES AND FOOTSTONES.
   All cemetery lots in the city may have either upright or flat headstones
with footstones at ground level, centered over the foot of the grave space. The
maximum length of the headstone and/or base or footstone shall be no more than
48 inches per grave space. All headstones, whether upright or flat, shall face
east. The Cemetery Caretaker must be contacted prior to placing or setting a
headstone or footstone.
In placing any headstones or footstones in the Winner Cemetery, the same shall
be done so as not to change the contour of the land.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.01) (Ord. 532, passed - -; Ord. 561, passed - -; Ord. 708,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 739, passed - -; Ord. 825, passed - -;
Ord. 1057, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 55.02 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The cemetery shall be maintained as follows.
   (A)   The Winner Cemetery maintenance employees will be responsible for the
digging and filling of each grave. This also includes cremated remains.
   (B)   The Winner Cemetery maintenance employees will fill, sod and/or seed,
water, mow and provide for the general maintenance of each and every grave site
within the area known as the Winner City Cemetery.
   (C)   Individuals may care for the site of an immediate family member’s
grave only. This is limited to mowing and may not interfere with the
maintenance crew and the performance of its duties. No one is allowed within
the cemetery from 9:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. daily.
   (D)   Permanent grave markers, memorials, headstones and/or footstones may
be placed on each grave site by qualified monument companies, provided
placement is accomplished as directed in compliance with existing city
ordinances and under the supervision of cemetery personnel.
   (E)   Maintenance of those markers and the like shall be the responsibility
of surviving family members. If maintenance is required, as determined by city
authorities, the city shall have the right to hire monument companies or use
city personnel to restore such markers and the like to an upright or ground
level position, whichever is necessary as determined by the original placement
of the marker. In the event that the monument, marker, headstone or footstone
is damaged or destroyed, in the process of repositioning, the city and its
employees shall not be held liable. Every reasonable effort shall be taken to
provide proper and careful restoration of the marker and the like to its
original position.
   (F)   Vases which are significantly damaged or destroyed by city crews will
be replaced by the city at the city’s expense. Replacement of vases damaged or
destroyed by natural wear or elements shall be the responsibility of family
members.
   (G)   Flowers, temporary memorials or decorations may be placed on the grave
site on Thursday after 5:00 p.m. prior to Memorial Day and may remain on the
grave site for one week following Memorial Day. The city will not assume
responsibility for, or salvage of, any decorative items so placed.
   (H)   There shall be no planting of trees, shrubs or other permanent
plantings within the city cemetery by any firm or corporation, except by the
written permission of the Council.
   (I)    Flowers, plants or decorations may be placed at any time, provided
they are placed in vases or receptacles, which are an integral part of the
headstone, memorial, marker or footstone and do not inhibit the general
maintenance of the cemetery. In addition, funeral decorations and other
cemetery memorabilia may be placed and left on a grave for up to 14 days
following the internment so long as they are not placed outside the grave
space. Thereafter, until a permanent gravestone or marker is placed, one or two
items may be secured or staked and left on the grave as a temporary marker
until the permanent marker is installed. In any event, the city will not assume
responsibility for, or salvage of, any funeral decorations and other ceremony
memorabilia so placed on a grave.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.02) (Ord. 731, passed - - ; Ord. 825, passed - - ; Ord.
844, passed - - ; Ord. 1054, passed 6-19-2023; Ord. 1057, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 55.03 RATES.
    The Council shall set all costs and fees by resolution. Fees must be paid
or arrangements must be made with the Finance Officer, and a burial permit must
be received, before the burial is done. The monies derived from the sale of
spaces and grave opening shall be used solely for the purpose of maintaining
the gravesites in the city cemetery. Costs and fees include, but shall not be
limited to:
   (A)   The price of a single burial space in the Winner City Cemetery.
   (B)   The fee for a single burial grave opening on weekdays or on weekends
and holidays.
   (C)   The fee for burial of cremation remains on weekdays or on weekends and
holidays.
   (D)   The fee for a grave opening deeper than the standard opening which
shall be allowed only in areas of the cemetery where soil conditions are
conducive. Prior approval must be obtained from the Cemetery Supervisor or the
Public Works Director.
   (E)   The fee for exhuming any remains.
   (F)   Any urn buried prior to January 1, 2015, will not be exhumed by the
city. In the event that an urn buried prior to said date is to be exhumed, the
requesting party shall contract with a licensed third party contractor to
exhume the urn under the supervision of a designated city employee. Because an
urn may be a vessel made of various types of materials, there is no guarantee
that the urn or its contents will remain sealed or intact after burial.
   (G)   In the event that a casket is to be moved and placed in another burial
space within the Winner Cemetery, the standard burial fee will be assessed, and
fees shall be payable in advance of the process, which shall be done only
during regular working hours of cemetery employees.
   (H)   No casket will be permitted to be buried on top of a space where
cremated remains are currently buried. If a casket must be buried in a space
where cremated remains are currently buried, exhuming procedures as set forth
in divisions (E) and (F) above must be followed.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.03) (Ord. 159, passed - -; Ord. 218, passed - -; Ord. 253,
passed - -; Ord. 404, passed - -; Ord. 487, passed - -; Ord. 496, passed - -;
Ord. 532, passed - -; Ord. 549, passed - -; Ord. 558, passed - -; Ord. 561,
passed - -; Ord. 563, passed - -; Ord. 565, passed - -; Ord. 669, passed - -;
Ord. 705, passed - -; Ord. 708, passed - -; Ord. 716, passed - -; Ord. 721,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 739, passed - -; Ord. 768, passed - -;
Ord. 796, passed - -; Ord. 825, passed - -; Ord. 856, passed - -; Ord. 1002,
passed 6-7-2021; Ord. 1057, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 55.04 CASKET ENCLOSURE.
    All caskets buried in the Winner Municipal Cemetery must be enclosed in a
vault or liner made of concrete, steel or equally hard material excluding
fiberglass.
(Prior Code, § 4.06.04) (Ord. 644, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 825,
passed - -; Ord. 1057, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 55.05 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    Spaces are sold on the basis of first to request and pay for a space.
The city will not reserve or “hold” any spots that are not paid for.
   (B)   Once sold, the cemetery plot belongs to the purchaser and/or spouse.
Any transfer or change of ownership of one or more burial plot to another
person by the owners thereof shall be in writing in the form of a deed as
prescribed by law. Such transfer shall not be complete or recognized by the
city, or a burial of a body or cremains permitted therein by such purchaser
until the deed or the transfer thereof shall have been filed with the Finance
Officer of the city, together with any recording fees required by law. Any deed
signed other than by the purchaser and/or purchaser’s spouse must be made in
writing under legal authority, to include written consent by all remaining
family members, power of attorney by an owner still living, or personal
representative of the estate of the deceased owner.
   (C)   Burial of human remains in a casket, sealed within a vault, shall be
limited to one casket per plot; provided, however, if the owner of the plot
designates it for burial of two caskets, one above the other, and such
designation is made before the first burial such that the first burial is made
deeper to provide additional vertical space, then two caskets may be buried in
a single plot. At the request of the family, so long as only one casket is
buried in the plot, a spouse or significant other, or other family member may
have their cremains placed in an urn and buried immediately above the casket at
or near the head of the casket, and another in an urn buried immediately above
the casket at or near the foot of the casket, so long as the identity and
relative location of each urn is recorded with the Finance Office.
   (D)   Up to a maximum of six urns of cremains may be buried in one plot, at
the request of the family, so long as they are cremains of spouses/significant
others and/or family members, so long as the identity and relative location of
each is recorded with the Finance Office.
   (E)   The Mayor may order that a grave be dug and any person buried at the
expense of the city whenever the deceased leaves no estate or relative whose
duty it is and who is able to defray such expenses. The city shall, whenever
legally feasible, collect for the cost of such lot and the digging of such
grave, together with any other recoverable costs incurred, from the county who
is legally liable therefor.
   (F)   Only humans may be buried in the Winner Cemetery. Pets/animals are not
permitted to be buried in the cemetery.
   (G)   Burials of caskets or urns will only be located in a platted burial
plot. No casket or urn will be located within a platted walkway or other non-
burial plot.
   (H)   Pets/animals may not be walked or exercised within the cemetery. They
must be kept secured in a vehicle or else kept away from the cemetery.
   (I)   To ensure that roadways remain in proper repair throughout the
cemetery, the Public Works Director or the Cemetery Supervisor may, at their
discretion, close the public entranceways when weather conditions cause
blockages, muddy conditions, or are likely to cause damage to the roadways. In
the most extreme circumstance, with the concurrence of the funeral director,
the Public Works Director or the Cemetery Supervisor may require that a
scheduled burial be postponed for a reasonable period of time until road
conditions improve.
(Ord. 1057, passed 8-7-2023; Ord. 1074, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 55.06 VANDALISM.
   (A)   Vandalism.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to mar, mutilate, graffiti,
destroy, or remove any tomb, monument, gravestone, landmark, or receptacle for
flowers or shrubs lawfully placed within the Winner Cemetery; or to willfully
injure, destroy, or remove any type of vegetation placed within the Winner
Cemetery; or to deface with paint or other substance, or to put up signs on any
fence within or around the Winner Cemetery.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to deposit, dump, or leave any waste material,
rubbish, or trash within the Winner Cemetery grounds unless in designated waste
receptacles.
   (B)   Violation; penalty. A violation of this section is a Class 2
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to $500 and up to 30 days in jail.
(Ord. 1057, passed 8-7-2023)
TITLE VI: AIRPORT
   Chapter
      
60.   AIRPORT
CHAPTER 60: AIRPORT
Section
   
60.01   Establishment of authority
   
60.02   Naming
   
60.03   Zones
   
60.04   Height limits
   
60.05   Use restrictions
   
60.06   Nonconforming uses
   
60.07   Variances
   
60.08   Permits
   
60.09   Owner responsibilities
   
60.10   Zoning Board of Adjustments control
   
60.11   Aircraft control zone
   
60.12   Aircraft noise restrictions
   
60.13   Airport parking
   
60.14   User permit
   
60.15   Applicator permit
   
60.16   Receipt of fees
   
60.17   Cancellation of permit
   
60.18   Supervision and control
   
60.19   Storage of gasoline or other inflammable materials
   
60.20   Right to enter
   
60.21   Building construction
   
60.22   Rentals from city hangar
   
60.23   City obligations
   
60.24   Nonperformance and breach
   
60.25   City’s rights
   
60.26   Payment of utilities
 
   
60.99   Penalty
§ 60.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to define terms used herein and regulate the
private and commercial operation of aircraft from the Winner Municipal Airport
providing for:
   (A)   The lease of hangars and hangar sites;
   (B)   Permits for commercial and private aeronautical activities and fees;
   (C)   The regulation and restriction of the height of structures and objects
of natural growth, and otherwise regulating the use of property, in the
vicinity of the Winner Municipal Airport by creating airport approach, turning
and transition zones and establishing the boundaries thereof;
   (D)   Changes in the restrictions and boundaries of such zones;
   (E)   The building regulations of structures located on the Winner Municipal
Airport;
   (F)   The control of said regulations by the Board of Adjustment; and
   (G)   Enforcement and imposing penalties.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.01) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.02 NAMING.
   To better acknowledge the service area of the airport owned by the city, the
airport shall be known as the Winner Regional Airport.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.02) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 796,
passed - -)
§ 60.03 ZONES.
   All of the land within the boundaries of the Winner Municipal Airport, and
within the number of miles of the landing area of the airport determined as
necessary by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with the requirements and
recommendations of the Federal Aviation Administration, shall be divided by the
Board of Adjustment into airport approach zones, airport turning zones and
airport transition zones. The boundaries of which will be shown on the Winner
Airport Approach plan as the same is amended from time to time by the Board of
Adjustment in conjunction with the Federal Aviation
Administration.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.03) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.04 HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or
maintained in any airport approach zone, airport turning zone or airport
transition zone to a height in excess of the height limit herein established
for such zone.
   (B)   The height limits established shall be done by the Board of Adjustment
and shall not exceed those limits which are set by the Federal Aviation
Administration unless a variance is permitted by the said Federal Aviation
Administration, and such limit regulations established by the Board of
Adjustment shall be made available to the public in the permanent records of
the said Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.04) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
60.99
§ 60.05 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No use may be made of land within any airport approach zone, airport
turning zone, or airport transition zone in such a manner as to:
      (1)   Create electrical interference with radio communication between the
airport and aircraft;
      (2)   Make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights
and other;
      (3)   Result in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airport;
      (4)   Impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport; or
      (5)   Endanger the landing, taking-off, or maneuvering of aircraft.
   (B)   No use shall be made of any building or area set aside for airport use
at the Winner Municipal Airport which is not directly associated with
aeronautical activity.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.05) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
60.99
§ 60.06 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   The regulations herein prescribed in this chapter shall not be
construed to require the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any
structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date
hereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the construction,
alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of
which was begun prior to the effective date of this chapter, and is diligently
prosecuted and completed within two years thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.06) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.07 VARIANCES.
   Any person desiring to erect any structure or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property, not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply for a
variance therefrom. Such variance shall be allowed where a literal application
or enforcement of the regulations would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship and the relief granted would not be in accordance with the
spirit of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.07) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.08 PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   No material change shall be made in the use of land, and no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established,
in any airport approach zone, airport turning zone or airport transition zone,
unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted.
      (2)   Each application shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is
desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether
the resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the regulations herein
prescribed.
      (3)   If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit applied for
shall be granted.
   (B)   Before any existing use, structure, or tree may be replaced,
substantially altered or repaired, rebuilt, allowed to grow higher or
replanted, within any airport approach zone, airport turning zone or airport
transition zone, a permit must be secured authorizing such replacement, change,
or repair. No such permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment
or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure or
tree to be made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to air navigation,
than it was on the effective date of this chapter or than it is when the
application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for a
permit for replacement, change or repair of existing use, structure or tree
shall be granted.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.08) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Any permit or variance granted under §§
60.07 and
60.08 may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purposes of
this chapter and reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to
require the owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the owner at
his or her own expense, to install, operate and maintain thereon, such markers
and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an airport
hazard.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.09) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.10 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS CONTROL.
   All of the regulations and controls as set forth in this chapter and permits
issued hereunder shall be under the control of the Zoning Board of Adjustment
of the city and all permits granted and appeals therefrom and any and all
related procedures set forth in the zoning regulations (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances) of the city as the same has been and is
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.10) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.11 AIRCRAFT CONTROL ZONE.
   No aircraft shall be permitted to operate over the corporate limits of the
city, nor upon or from the Winner Municipal Airport, nor within any control
zone thereof unless the operation thereof is done within strict compliance of
all federal rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.11) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
60.99
§ 60.12 AIRCRAFT NOISE RESTRICTIONS.
   Unnecessary noise by operator of aircraft within or over the corporate
limits of the city and over or on the Winner Municipal Airport is hereby
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.12) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
60.99
§ 60.13 AIRPORT PARKING.
   No vehicle or truck of any kind or type shall be allowed upon any area of
the airport except in designated parking or unloading areas.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.13) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
60.99
§ 60.14 USER PERMIT.
   No person shall hereafter operate or conduct any commercial aeronautical
activity upon or from the Winner Municipal Airport for any commercial purpose
or any purpose whatsoever for hire by such person without first obtaining a
permit for such operation or activity from the city. No permit for any
commercial aeronautical activity will be issued until the person seeking such
permit shall have submitted to said city an application stating the applicant’s
name, business name, address, complete description of the commercial activity
and of the equipment to be used in connection therewith, and, if the applicant
be a nonresident of the city, the person he or she has designated to accept
notice, services of process and summons on his or her behalf, which designation
shall continue during the time any permit is in force. All permits and leases
issued by the city shall be done so as to comply with minimum federal and state
rules and regulations so far as the same shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.14) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.15 APPLICATOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person or entity that conducts an aerial pesticide/herbicide
spraying operation from the Winner Municipal Airport, and who in connection
therewith stores, loads, unloads or otherwise handles any pesticide or
herbicide product within the exterior boundaries of the Winner Municipal
Airport, shall first obtain from the Airport Manager an applicator permit. Such
permit may be issued upon providing all necessary information to the Airport
Manager. Such permit shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of
issue upon payment of the $1,500 annual fee. Such permit shall be issued only
to those applicators that have an agricultural aircraft operator certificate
issued by the FAA. All applicators must comply with all requirements of
federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable to aerial applicators.
Such permit shall be issued to each applicator for a maximum of three planes
owned or leased by such applicator and used exclusively by such applicator. If
any applicator desires to permit more than three planes, a separate permit with
the $1,500 annual fee shall be required for each additional up to three planes.
   (B)   Each applicator shall provide proof of liability insurance covering
this type of operation in an amount not less than $1,000,000.
   (C)   Each applicator shall provide for his, her or its own spray
containment pad of a type that is approved for such use, and shall use it in
such area as is designated by the Airport Manager. Each applicator shall
provide for his, her or its own chemical storage system which utilizes a
double-lock system of a type that is approved for such use. Only personnel
trained in the proper handling of pesticides/herbicides shall handle such
substances within the Winner Municipal Airport property.
   (D)   Each applicator must clean up and remove all containers at the end of
each day’s activities; maintain all loading and mixing facilities; use dry
break devices or equivalent couplings to the aircraft loading receptacle to
prevent leaks and spills; and conduct loading and unloading activities so as
not to interfere with the normal aircraft operations upon the Winner Municipal
Airport.
   (E)   The applicator shall keep an appropriate spill kit on site during
operations in an easily accessible location. In the event of a small pesticide/
herbicide spill (non-reportable), the applicator shall remove from the airport
property the contaminated surface material under the direction of the Airport
Manager, and shall place or dispose of the same in accordance with applicable
regulations. In the event of a reportable spill, the applicator shall contain
the material and shall forthwith contact the appropriate state agencies
according to the applicable regulations. The applicator shall be responsible
for all costs associated with the removal and cleanup of any spill.
   (F)   For all pesticides/herbicides kept, handled or stored upon the grounds
of the airport, the applicator shall do so in accordance with the material
safety data sheet (MSDS) requirements for each chemical. MSDS sheets for all
such materials handled by the applicator shall be made available to the Airport
Manager upon request. All federal and state hazardous material and
environmental protection acts and regulations must be complied with at all
times.
   (G)   All applicators shall have an operational radio in each airplane
during application activities, or shall report to the Airport Manager how
communications shall be maintained.
   (H)   All complaints pertaining to applicator operations shall be handled by
the Airport Manager who shall have the authority to resolve complaints or to
refer them to the Airport Committee or the City Council for final resolution.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.14.01) (Ord. 853, passed - -) Penalty, see §
60.99
§ 60.16 RECEIPT OF FEES.
   The city shall upon receipt of the fees in such sums as the Council shall
from time to time by resolution determine, issue to the applicant a permit to
conduct commercial aeronautical activity or activities. Said permit shall
clearly state the aeronautical activities in which the holder may engage and
the length of time covered by the permit.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.15) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.17 CANCELLATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit may be cancelled by resolution of the Board of Adjustment for the
violation of this chapter, any pertinent ordinance, State Aeronautics
Commission or Federal Aviation Administration rules and regulations by the
holder of said permit, his or her agents, employees, or servants upon 15 days’
written notice given to the permit holder and hearing held thereon by the Board
of Adjustment of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.16) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.18 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   The Winner Municipal Airport shall be under the supervision and control of
the Council through the Board of Adjustment who is hereby charged with the duty
of maintaining, operating and controlling said Airport, under the terms and
provisions of resolutions or ordinances adopted by the Council. The Board of
Adjustment is hereby authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as it
may deem necessary or advisable for the proper management, control and
operation of said Airport. Prior to the adoption of such rules and regulations
by the Board of Adjustment, they shall be first submitted to the Airport
Advisory Committee for their consideration and said Board may thereafter adopt
the same in whole or in part with or without said Airport Advisory Board
approval. Said rules and regulations as are adopted in accordance herewith
shall be in full force and effect upon the filing of copies of the same with
the City Finance Officer and shall be subject to the violation penalties as
hereinafter provided in §
60.99.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.17) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
60.99
§ 60.19 STORAGE OF GASOLINE OR OTHER INFLAMMABLE MATERIALS.
   The storage of any gasoline or highly inflammable material in any hangar
located on the Winner Municipal Airport is expressly prohibited. All paints,
dopes, vanishes and solvents shall be stored and kept in accordance with
appropriate fire and safety rules and regulations. No gasoline may be sold or
disposed except through a state approved stationary gasoline pump except that
trucks may be used to deliver gasoline to buried gasoline tanks and refuel
aircraft within those areas as designated by the Board of Adjustment including,
but not limited to, tie-down areas, aircraft parking areas and hangar areas.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.18) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
60.99
§ 60.20 RIGHT TO ENTER.
   The city, through its designated officials, reserves the right to enter and
inspect any hangar or building located on the Winner Municipal Airport at the
city’s discretion and any and all leases shall have in their provisions an
agreement permitting such entry and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.19) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.21 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
   No construction, building, alteration and the like in any manner or form or
any structure upon the Winner Municipal Airport shall be done or performed
unless a building permit shall have been obtained from the Inspector. The
regulations and controls concerning any building alteration and construction
shall be adopted by the Board of Adjustment. Copies of regulations shall be
kept on file and available upon request to any person interested in the office
of the Finance Officer of the city and shall contain the minimum requirements
necessary that shall be not less than the requirement that the construction be
made from fireproof material upon the outer surface, namely, metal, brick and
concrete and shall be of generally uniform design, architecture and color, and
any variation in the design, architecture or color of buildings thereafter must
be first approved by Inspector, in accordance with said regulations. The places
where construction shall be allowed shall be as designated by the Board of
Adjustment. A permit must be likewise obtained for the location of any facility
such as, but not necessarily limited to, gasoline pumps, advertising signs and
similar facilities from Inspector in the same manner and forms and building
permits.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.20) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.22 RENTALS FROM CITY HANGAR.
   Any rentals received from the use of the city hangar and tie downs shall be
payable to the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.21) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.23 CITY OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Airport premises liability insurance. The city shall procure airport
premises liability insurance for an amount acceptable to the city.
   (B)   Gas. The Manager may sell gas at his or her own risk and the city will
furnish tanks and pumps therefor.
   (C)   Lighting. The city will furnish and pay for all exterior lighting at
the airport.
   (D)   Snow removal. The city will, upon notification of the Manager and
under his or her direction, remove snow from runways, parking and taxi ways and
roads to and from the county road access. In the event of emergency, the city
will provide such snow removal as is necessary.
   (E)   Fencing and runway markers. The city will furnish and install all
fencing and runway markers.
   (F)   Radio. The city will furnish all radio equipment and maintenance for
the same used for airport advisory service.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.22) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.24 NONPERFORMANCE AND BREACH.
   (A)   In the event the Manager should fail to observe any of the provisions
of this said agreement, then written notice of such failure shall be given to
Manager, and if not fully corrected within 60 days after the receipt of said
notice, then city may terminate this said agreement by written notice which
shall become effective immediately upon the receipt of.
   (B)   The failure of the Manager to perform, keep and observe the terms and
covenants and conditions of this said agreement. In the event of said failure
to so perform after notice of the same is given as hereinbefore provided the
city shall have the right to at once enter upon and assume full possession of
the said space which has been herein delegated to and occupied by the Manager
under this said agreement and to remove therefrom any and all goods and
chattels not belonging to city and without being liable for prosecution
therefore or to any claim for damages incurred by virtue of such removal, and
said city shall thereafter be entitled to select a suitable Manager and this
said agreement shall thereafter be null and void.
   (C)   The Manager will not purchase nor contract for any debts in the name
of the city without first obtaining specific approval thereof on proper
requisition.
   (D)   The Manager agrees to operate the said airport for the use and benefit
of the public and to furnish good, prompt and efficient services adequate to
meet all of the reasonable demands for services at the said airport and to
furnish said service on a fair, equal and non-discriminatory basis to all users
thereof and to charge fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory prices for each
unit of said sale or services; providing, however, that Manager may make such
reasonable and non-discriminatory discounts, rebates or other similar types of
price reductions to volume purchasers.
   (E)   The Manager, nor any of his or her agents and employees, will not
discriminate against any person or class of persons by reason of race, color,
creed or national origin in providing any service or in the use of any of the
Winner Municipal Airport facilities provided for the public in any manner. The
Manager further agrees to comply with such enforcement procedures as the United
States through its proper agencies may demand that city take in order to comply
with the sponsors assurances.
   (F)   The Manager has no right or privilege granted to him or her, his or
her agents or employees which would operate to prevent any person operating
aircraft on the airport from performing any service on its own aircraft with
its own aircraft with its own regular employees including, but not limited to,
maintenance and repair that it may choose to perform.
   (G)   Nothing herein contained may in any manner or form be construed to
grant or authorize the granting of an exclusive right in the Manager by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.23) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.25 CITY’S RIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   The city reserves the sole right to develop and improve the
landing area of the airport or any facilities thereon in any manner it sees fit
regardless of the desires or views of the Manager and without interference or
hindrance.
      (2)   The city reserves the rights to maintain and keep the repair of the
landing area of the said airport and all publicly owned facilities on the same
together with the right to direct and control the activities of Manager in this
regard.
      (3)   The city reserves its right to lease the landing area or any part
thereof to the United States government for any military or naval use during
time of war or national emergency and any provisions of said agreement to the
contrary shall be suspended during that period of time.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to take any action it considers necessary
to protect the aerial approaches of the said airport against obstruction
together with the right to prevent Manager from erecting or permitting to be
erected on any area leased by Manager any building, structure or the like or
adjacent to the airport which in the opinion of the city would limit usefulness
of the said airport or constitute a hazard to aircraft.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.24) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.26 PAYMENT OF UTILITIES.
   It is expressly agreed that the Manager shall furnish and pay for all
utilities except the following:
   (A)   The city shall be responsible for heating, sewer and water in
restrooms located in the administrative office attached to the hangar;
   (B)   The city shall furnish outside pay phone station on the premises; and
   (C)   The city shall be responsible for all exterior lighting, water and
sewer.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.25) (Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 60.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99. Further, any building or structure maintained, erected, constructed,
moved or converted or any building, structure or land that is used in violation
of this chapter or any facility located without a permit is hereby declared to
be a nuisance and shall be abated as such. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.26)
   (B)   (1)   Any applicator who fails to comply with the requirements of §
60.15 shall be denied a permit and may have an existing permit revoked, without
refund, by the City Council upon the recommendation of the Airport Manager and
upon the applicator’s opportunity for a hearing before the City Council.
      (2)   Any applicator who conducts any covered operations upon the Winner
Municipal Airport without first obtaining a permit is guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 4.07.14.01)
(Ord. 369, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 853, passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   SIGNALING DEVICES AND SIGNS
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   EMERGENCY VEHICLES
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Rate of speed
   
70.02   Traveling abreast
   
70.03   Slow driving
   
70.04   Exhibition driving
   
70.05   Use of motor vehicles, traction engine, tractors and road rollers
   
70.06   Brakes, horn and signals
   
70.07   Lights
   
70.08   Electric head lights
   
70.09   Entering street
   
70.10   Turning
   
70.11   Left turn
   
70.12   Stopping after accident
   
70.13   Brakes while standing
   
70.14   Muffler
   
70.15   Age of driver
   
70.16   Catching on to or tying to motor vehicles
   
70.17   Riding on running boards, hood or fenders
   
70.18   Tampering with motor vehicles
   
70.19   Driving while intoxicated
   
70.20   Pedestrians crossing streets
   
70.21   Noise in quiet zones
   
70.22   Right-of-way
   
70.23   Reversing
   
70.24   Ample warning
   
70.25   Funeral procession
   
70.26   Bicycle upon sidewalk
   
70.27   Flat service wheels
   
70.28   Wide loads
   
70.29   Traffic ticket citations
No Travel Within City
   
70.45   “No travel” declaration
   
70.46   Non-essential travel prohibited during “no-travel” declaration
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 RATE OF SPEED.
   (A)    No person shall operate any vehicle upon any street or alley in the
city at a greater rate of speed than is reasonable and proper under all the
circumstances, having due regard to the traffic, use and condition of the
street or alley or at a reckless or dangerous rate of speed, or in a careless
or negligent manner.
   (B)   No person shall operate any vehicle at a greater rates of speed than
15 miles per hour in a posted school zone whenever children are present.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle at a greater rate of speed than 25
miles per hour in a business or residence district unless otherwise posted, and
then not in excess of the posted speed limit, and where such street is
designated as an arterial street or highway then at a rate of speed of not more
than 30 miles per hour unless otherwise posted, and then not in excess of the
posted speed limit.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.01) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 1066,
passed 11-6-2023)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 TRAVELING ABREAST.
   Vehicles shall not travel two or more abreast on any street or pass a moving
vehicle at a street intersection.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.02) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SLOW DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle at an unnecessarily slow rate of speed so
as to hinder and retard traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.03) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.04 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person shall be guilty of exhibition driving who drives a vehicle within
the limits of the city in such a manner that:
   (A)   Creates or causes unnecessary engine noise, or tire squeal, skid or
slide upon acceleration or stopping;
   (B)   Simulates a temporary race; or
   (C)   Causes the vehicle to unnecessarily turn abruptly or sway.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.04) (Ord. 375, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.05 USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES, TRACTION ENGINE, TRACTORS AND ROAD ROLLERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or drive any motor
vehicle, traction engine, tractor or road roller on the streets or alleys
within the corporate limits of the city in violation of the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   At any regular or special meeting of the governing body of said city,
said governing body may direct the Police Department of said city to place such
parking, loading, load and driving restrictions on any or all streets and
alleys within the corporate limits of said city, as in the opinion of the said
governing body may be necessary at any particular time.
   (C)   At any regular or special meeting of the governing body of said city,
as set out in division (B) above, the said governing body shall place or cause
to be placed in its official minutes such restrictions as in its opinion may be
necessary on said streets and alleys within the corporate limits of said city;
that said governing body shall then direct the Police Department to place signs
on the said restricted streets and alleys which shall set out the restriction
imposed by the governing body; that after said signs shall be posted by the
Police Department, the said restriction shall be in full force forthwith.
   (D)   In order to give adequate notice to the public of said restrictions as
described, the governing body of said city shall direct the Police Department
of said city to place a sign describing said restriction at every street and
alley intersection on which the restriction is imposed which shall face
traffic.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, tamper with, damage or
tear down any sign hereinbefore referred to in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.05) (Ord. 280, passed - -; Ord. 478, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 BRAKES, HORN AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle shall be provided with adequate brakes in good
working order and sufficient to control such motor vehicle at all times when
the same is in use, and an adequate horn or other device for signaling.
   (B)    It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to
intentionally use compression release engine brakes on any public highway,
street, parking lot or alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive
noise from the engine. Appropriate signage will be erected on locations within
the city as deemed necessary by the City Council.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPRESSION RELEASE ENGINE BRAKES also known as DYNAMIC ENGINE BRAKING.
Includes any engine retarding brake system which alters the normal compression
of the engine thereby converting the engine into an air compressor for the
purposes of braking without the use of wheel brakes.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.06) (Ord. 469, passed - - ; Ord. 731, passed - - ; Ord.
757, passed - - ; Ord. 1055, passed 7-3-2023)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 LIGHTS.
   A motor vehicle shall, during the period from half an hour after sunset to
half an hour before sunrise, display at least two lighted lamps on the front
and one on the rear of such motor vehicle, which rear lamp shall display a red
light, plainly visible from the rear; provided that a motorcycle shall be
required to display but one lighted lamp in front and one showing a red light
in the rear.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.07) (Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 469,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 ELECTRIC HEAD LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful to use electric head lights or side lights upon any
vehicle upon any of the streets or alleys in the city unless the same are
dimmed in such a manner as to prevent the light being dazzling or blinding to
persons using the street.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.08) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.09 ENTERING STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving any vehicle to drive onto an
arterial street in the city without first coming to a full stop prior to
entering upon said arterial street. Vehicles on the arterial street shall have
the right-of-way. This chapter shall not apply to ambulances and Fire and
Police Department vehicles and apparatus while being operated in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.09) (Ord. 237, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.10 TURNING.
   Every driver of a vehicle turning into another street, alley or highway to
the right shall turn the corner as near to the right hand curb of the street as
possible, and in no instance passing beyond the center of the street.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.10) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.11 LEFT TURN.
   Every driver of a vehicle turning into another highway, street or alley to
the left shall at a distance of ten feet before entering intersection signal
his or her intention so as to be plainly visible to any driver of vehicles in
the rear, and shall, whenever possible, turn to the left of the center of the
intersection of the two streets or highway, unless otherwise marked.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.11) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.12 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT.
   Every driver of a vehicle or motor vehicle after colliding with any other
vehicle or motor vehicle or after injuring any person or damaging any vehicle
or motor vehicle or after damaging any property whatsoever, shall forthwith
bring his or her vehicle or motor vehicle to a full stop, return at once to the
scene of the accident and give to any person demanding the same his or her name
and address, and, if operating a motor vehicle, the registration number of the
same, and shall forthwith report the accident to the Police Department of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.12) (Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 BRAKES WHILE STANDING.
   No person shall leave a motor vehicle unattended or parked on any street of
the city unless the brakes are firmly set.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.13) (Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 469,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 MUFFLER.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle, unless such motor vehicle
is provided with a muffler that shall at all times be kept closed so that the
exhaust is effectively muffled.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.14) (Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 469,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 AGE OF DRIVER.
   No person who is under the age of 14 years shall operate or drive a motor
vehicle upon the streets of the city unless such person is accompanied by the
owner of the motor vehicle or his or her parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.16) (Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 CATCHING ON TO OR TYING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to catch on to or hang on to, or attempt
to propel or guide any bicycle, sled or other vehicle holding on to the motor
vehicle while the same is moving on the streets of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.17) (Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 469,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS, HOOD OR FENDERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or driving or in charge of a
motor vehicle to allow or permit any person to ride upon the running boards or
on the outside of any such motor vehicle, or for any person to ride upon the
running board or outside of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.18) (Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 469,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 TAMPERING WITH MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall, without authority of the person in charge, climb upon or
into any vehicle or motor vehicle, whether the same is in motion or at rest,
nor shall any person without authority of the person in charge while any motor
vehicle is at rest and unattended, sound the horn or other signaling device, or
attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting devices, brakes or machinery
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.19) (Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate or attempt to drive
or operate any vehicle or motor vehicle upon any of the public streets, alleys
or public grounds of the city while such person is in an intoxicated or drunken
condition or under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.20) (Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 PEDESTRIANS CROSSING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to go from one side of the street to
the other except at a right angle at a regular crosswalk at the end of a block
upon any street in the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.21) (Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 NOISE IN QUIET ZONES.
   The making of any unnecessary noise by fast driving or riding, ringing of
bells, blowing of horns, whistles or other devices, or doing any other thing
upon any street tending to disturb the peace, comfort and quiet of any inmate
of a hospital or disturbing church services while church services are being
held is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.22) (Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   (1)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right except as otherwise provided
herein.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall
forfeit any right-of-way which he or she might otherwise have hereunder.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a public highway from
an alley, building, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on such public highway.
   (C)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway shall yield the right-of-
way to Police and Fire Department vehicles when the latter are operated upon
official business, and ambulances, and the drivers thereof sound audible signal
by bell, siren or exhaust whistle.
      (2)   The provision of this section shall not operate to relieve the
driver of a Police or Fire Department vehicle or ambulance from the duty to
drive with due regard to the safety of all persons using the highway nor shall
it protect the driver of any such vehicle from the consequence of an arbitrary
exercise of such right-of-way.
   (D)   (1)   Highway and street maintainers in the performance of their
duties of maintaining the streets shall have preference or right-of-way and
shall be permitted to drive upon the left hand side of the traveled portion of
the highway for the purpose of dumping materials, or repairing the streets and
also for smoothing the road surface.
      (2)   A highway maintainer shall not indiscriminatorily block traffic but
shall allow reasonable room on the traveled portion of the highway for other
vehicles to pass; such highway maintainers shall not, however, be required to
turn to the right when meeting other vehicles or allowing them to pass when his
or her work requires him or her to remain on the other side of the traveled
portion of the street; such maintainer, however, shall be subject to the other
rules of this chapter except when the performance of their maintenance work
requires them to do otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.23) (Ord. 500, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.23 REVERSING.
   No person driving a vehicle shall reverse the same without ample warning
having been given and, while reversing, care must be exercised not to injure
those in the rear.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.24) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.24 AMPLE WARNING.
   A standing vehicle about to start shall give moving vehicles the right-of-
way and the driver thereof shall give ample warning before starting.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.25) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.25 FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive through or otherwise interfere with any
funeral procession on any of the streets of the city, and it shall be the duty
of any person driving any vehicle to stop when reaching a street on which a
funeral procession is passing and wait until such funeral procession has
entirely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.26) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.26 BICYCLE UPON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall ride any bicycle upon or along any public sidewalk of any
street in the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.27) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.27 FLAT SERVICE WHEELS.
   No person shall drive upon any crossing or pavement of the city any tractor
or steam engine having other than flat surface wheels, unless before driving
upon such pavement or crossing good and sufficient plank shall be placed under
the wheels so that no portion of the wheels shall touch the pavement or
crossing.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.28) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.28 WIDE LOADS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street in the city with a load or
part of a load projecting more than four feet beyond the rear end or front end,
or more than two feet beyond the sides of the body or carrying part of said
vehicle unless there be attached to the extreme ends and sides of such
projecting load a warning sign or signal consisting of red cloth at least 18
inches square in daytime or a suitable light, red in color, at night, such sign
or signal to be so placed as to the plainly discernible to other drivers and
clearly indicating the projecting load.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.29) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.29 TRAFFIC TICKET CITATIONS.
   (A)   The police of the city are hereby empowered to issue both warning and
violation ticket citations for any and all violations of the traffic ordinances
of the city, which shall state the violation and cite said person to appear in
the proper court at a time and place designated in said ticket.
   (B)   The said ticket shall contain the following form as a minimum: the
violation complained of; a citation stating the time and place where the
appearance shall be made; the name of the defendant, if known, and if not
known; and the license plate of the car involved in said violation.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.30) (Ord. 126, passed - -; Ord. 177, passed - -; Ord. 231,
passed - -; Ord. 315, passed - -; Ord. 375, passed - -; Ord. 469, passed - -;
Ord. 500, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
NO TRAVEL WITHIN CITY
§ 70.45 “NO TRAVEL” DECLARATION.
   (A)   During periods of severe winter weather or other such emergencies, the
Public Safety Commissioner or the Chief of Police shall be authorized to issue
a “no travel” declaration within the city, when he or she shall determine, in
consultation with the Public Works Director, that conditions are such that any
travel within the city will place travelers and first responders at great risk
to their life or safety. The issuance of a “no travel” declaration shall be
disseminated to the community through local radio, municipal alert system,
social media and any other method readily available to the community.
   (B)   When the Public Safety Commissioner or the Chief of Police determines,
in consultation with the Public Works Director, that conditions have improved
sufficiently to permit travel, the “no travel” declaration shall be cancelled,
and such cancellation shall be disseminated to the community in the same
manner.
(Ord. 930, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 70.46 NON-ESSENTIAL TRAVEL PROHIBITED DURING “NO-TRAVEL” DECLARATION.
   (A)   During any time that a “no travel” declaration is in effect, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle for non-essential travel upon a street, roadway
or alley within the city, except a snowmobile operated within a special
authority that has been granted pursuant to §
74.04.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NON-ESSENTIAL TRAVEL. Travel which is not reasonably necessary to fulfill
an immediate need or purpose; travel which could reasonably be delayed until a
later time or date without causing any detriment to the driver or to any other
person. For example, an employee who is traveling to a place of employment
which provides necessary services throughout the time when travel is otherwise
prohibited, is engaged in essential travel; but a person who is traveling for
pleasure or mere convenience is engaged in NON-ESSENTIAL TRAVEL.
(Ord. 930, passed 8-5-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall fail to appear as required in said citation in §
70.29 at the time and place designated in said ticket shall be deemed guilty of
a Class 2 misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine
pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.30)
   (B)   Any person who violates §
70.46 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to fine and/or imprisonment as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 126, passed - -; Ord. 177, passed - -; Ord. 231, passed - -; Ord. 315,
passed - -; Ord. 375, passed - -; Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 500, passed - -;
Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 930, passed 8-5-2019)
CHAPTER 71: SIGNALING DEVICES AND SIGNS
Section
   
71.01   Automatic signaling devices, stop signs and other signaling devices
   
71.02   Establish and maintain signs
§ 71.01 AUTOMATIC SIGNALING DEVICES, STOP SIGNS AND OTHER SIGNALING DEVICES.
   (A)    Every person operating any vehicle shall bring the same to a complete
stop before entering a crosswalk, street intersection or any other place,
street or alley in the city when any automatic signaling device, stop sign or
other signaling device indicating said vehicle to stop, is placed in front, or
above said vehicle or on the right side of said walk, street or intersection.
   (B)   In case of an automatic signaling device, the person operating said
vehicle shall not enter the crosswalk, street intersection, other place, street
or alley until said automatic signaling device shall give or exhibit the word
or signal “GO” or give a green light.
   (C)   In case of an automatic signaling device, a flashing red shall be the
same control as a stop sign, requiring ever person operating a vehicle at that
location to come to a complete stop and to proceed only when it is safe to do
so. A yellow or amber traffic light shall indicate that a vehicle should
approach with caution and may proceed with caution when it is safe to do so.
   (D)   The Public Works Director, in cooperation with the Public Safety
Commissioner, shall study the traffic patterns within the city in order to
identify those streets that are through-streets or arterial streets, those that
are primary side or connecting streets, and those that are primarily
residential streets, as well as school zones, hospital zones, and other
relevant designations when planning the use of traffic control signals and
devices to establish traffic movements in safe and expedient patterns. The
Public Works Director shall consult with the Public Safety Commissioner and
shall review applicable state and federal sign placement standards in making
these determinations, but the final decision on sign placements shall be made
by the Public Works Director.
   (E)   The Council hereby and by this chapter does approve every existing
automatic signaling device, stop sign and other signaling devices which is now
erected and hereby resolves that they are lawful and in full force and effect
and shall be obeyed by every person. Hereafter, the Public Works Director shall
create the official list of all stop signs, yield signs, and other traffic
control devices within the city, and shall file it with the Finance Officer who
shall certify the list to the Clerk of Courts, to be maintained with the Code
of Ordinances at that location. The Finance Officer shall also place the list
for publication with the Code of Ordinances. As the Public Works Director
establishes a design of traffic patterns and movement to be controlled by
traffic control signs and devices, in cooperation with the Public Safety
Commissioner, that design shall be implemented by removal of signs and
installation of signs to accomplish the design. Whenever any such sign is added
to or deleted from the official list due to the installation or removal of a
sign, the official list shall be updated accordingly and distributed and
published as set forth above. The placement of the current or updated list with
the Clerk of Courts and the publication thereof with the Code of Ordinances
shall be necessary before any sign or signal may be enforced by citation or
complaint.
   (F)   Law enforcement officers shall be considered as a signaling device in
this section, and when directing traffic at any given time, drivers of vehicles
shall obey the directions of said law enforcement officers exclusive of all
other signaling devices at that particular place and time.
   (G)   Unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement officer, pedestrians
shall not cross a crosswalk over which vehicles and motor vehicles have the
right-of-way under direction of an automatic signaling device, stop signs or
other signaling devices, otherwise, when crossing at the proper place,
pedestrians shall have the right-of-way when crossing streets.
   (H)   Whenever the Public Safety Director is not available to remain in
administrative control of sign placement decisions under this section because
of an opening in the position or a lengthy absence from the city, the Street
Department Supervisor shall act as the authorized individual in making these
decisions. When the Public Safety Commissioner is unavailable to cooperate as
provided herein, the Chief of Police shall act as the authorized individual in
providing this cooperation.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.06) (Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 1065,
passed 10-16-2023)
§ 71.02 ESTABLISH AND MAINTAIN SIGNS.
   The Public Works Director, in cooperation with the Public Safety
Commissioner is hereby directed to establish and maintain signs to effectuate
the purpose of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.07) (Ord. 397, passed - -; Ord. 443, passed - -; Ord. 454,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 957, passed 7-6-2020)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Parking
   
72.02   Length of parking
   
72.03   Restricted vehicles
   
72.04   Recreational equipment
   
72.05   Parking in alleys
   
72.06   Double parking
   
72.07   Parking near fire hydrants
   
72.08   Parking by intersecting sidewalks
   
72.09   Prohibitive parking
   
72.10   Bus stops
   
72.11   Parking near garbage dumpsters
   
72.12   Parking on sidewalk or obstructing sidewalk
§ 72.01 PARKING.
   (A)   Except as herein otherwise provided, no vehicle shall be parked on any
street or alley of the city except such vehicle be parallel to the curb and no
closer than four feet to any other vehicle, front and rear, and the front and
rear wheels on the right of such vehicle shall not be more than 12 inches from
the curb.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked along, or adjacent to, or within the
platted right of way for U.S. Highway 18 within the city, where any of the
vehicle’s tires are parked upon the area between the curb and the sidewalk,
whether the surface thereof be grass, gravel, colored concrete, or other
material.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.01) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 1076,
passed 5-20-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 LENGTH OF PARKING.
    No vehicle shall be parked upon any of the streets of the city longer than
a continued period of 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.04) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 1039,
passed 9-6-2022)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 RESTRICTED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No trucks or vehicles including its load measuring more than 20 feet
in length from tip to tip and eight feet in width from one outside extremity to
the other, shall be parked upon the Main Street of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or drive any motor vehicle
exceeding a a gross vehicle weight of 13 tons on the streets, alleys or
sidewalks within the residential areas of the city except when receiving or
making deliveries to that residential area.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.05) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 521, passed - -; Ord. 574,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 968, passed 10-5-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
    No major recreational equipment, such as travel trailers, pickup campers,
coaches, tent trailers and the like, shall be parked on a city street in a
residential district for more than 72 hours. No such equipment shall be
occupied for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes while it is parked on a
city street. No slide or other expandable portion of such equipment shall be
open, expanded or extended to protrude into a city street at any time.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.06) (Ord. 660, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 1039,
passed 9-6-2022)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No vehicles shall be parked in the alleys of the city except for the purpose
of loading or unloading goods, wares or merchandise and then only for such
length of time as may be necessary to load and unload.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.07) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 72.06 DOUBLE PARKING.
   Vehicles shall not be double parked on any street in the city except when
unloading or loading passengers, goods or merchandise and then only such length
of time as may be necessary to load and unload.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.08) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 72.07 PARKING NEAR FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful to park where the curb is painted yellow or within ten
feet of a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.09) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 72.08 PARKING BY INTERSECTING SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall park any vehicle, motor or otherwise, with any part of such
vehicle within a distance of ten feet of any intersecting sidewalk or
crosswalk, or a line extended from any such sidewalk or crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.10) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 72.09 PROHIBITIVE PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave, allow or let remain parked on
any street or alley within the corporate limits of the city any motor vehicle,
after the city has caused signs to be placed on said street prohibiting the
parking of said motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.11) (Ord. 189, passed - -; Ord. 309, passed - -; Ord. 333,
passed - -; Ord. 454, passed - -; Ord. 582, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -;
Ord. 827, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 BUS STOPS.
   There shall be established certain parking spaces on certain streets within
said city to be used for bus stops, to be designated by the Chief of Police of
said city and such spaces so designated shall be marked by him or her by
painting the words “Bus Stop” on the curb or appropriate marker and designating
the hours for use of said spaces as a bus stop. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park in any space in said city marked “Bus Stop” during the hours
designated.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.13) (Ord. 237, passed - -; Ord. 265, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 PARKING NEAR GARBAGE DUMPSTERS.
   No person shall park any vehicle, motor or otherwise, with any part of such
vehicle blocking access to any garbage dumpster by the garbage removal
contractor. A violation of this section is subject to penalty for unlawful
parking. In addition, a violation of this section is sufficient cause for any
police officer to arrange for towing the offending vehicle from that location,
with the vehicle owner or the person parking it at that location to be
responsible for all towing and storage costs.
(Ord. 999, passed - -)
§ 72.12 PARKING ON SIDEWALK OR OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALK.
   Except if necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or if in compliance
with the directions of a police officer, a person shall not stop, stand or park
a vehicle in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk; or
   (B)   In a private driveway if any part of the vehicle or an attachment to
the vehicle, including a hitch or trailer, blocks an area of a sidewalk or
impedes continuous pedestrian use of the sidewalk in a manner that is not
consistent with the Americans with Disabilities Act. This division does not
apply if the vehicle is momentarily parked for the purposes of loading or
unloading the vehicle.
(Ord. 1023, passed 3-21-2022)
CHAPTER 73: EMERGENCY VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Emergency vehicle right-of-way
   
73.02   Following fire apparatus
   
73.03   Crossing of unprotected hose
§ 73.01 EMERGENCY VEHICLE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Upon the approach of any Police or Fire Department vehicle giving
audible signal by siren or otherwise, the driver of any vehicle shall
immediately yield the right-of-way to such Police or Fire Department vehicle
and shall pull to the right hand edge of the curb or as near as possible there
to and stop until such Police or Fire Department vehicle or vehicles have
passed.
   (B)   No driver of a vehicle shall follow a Fire Department vehicle or
vehicle traveling to a fire or in answer to a fire alarm at a distance closer
than 500 feet and shall not park any vehicle within one block of such fire
vehicle or vehicle which such vehicles are being used at any fire.
   (C)   Every driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to an
ambulance.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.01) (Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 73.02 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business to follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm closer than 500 feet or to drive into or park such vehicle within the
block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm or any
public emergency.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.02) (Ord. 601, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 73.03 CROSSING OF UNPROTECTED HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be driven over any unprotected hose
of the Fire Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to be
used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Marshal or
Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.03) (Ord. 602, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
74.01   Private property
   
74.02   Registration and licensing requirements
   
74.03   Roadway restrictions
   
74.04   Travel on closed roadways
   
74.05   Unlawful operation
 
   
74.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES
§ 74.01 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to operate snowmobiles or all-terrain vehicles on or
across the private property of another unless permission to do so has been
first obtained by the vehicle operator or vehicle owner of the snowmobile or
all-terrain vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.01) (Ord. 418, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
74.99
§ 74.02 REGISTRATION AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   All snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles operated within the city must
comply with all title registration, annual registration and licensing
requirements of the state.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.02) (Ord. 418, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
74.99
§ 74.03 ROADWAY RESTRICTIONS.
   Snowmobiles may be operated on the roadways of the city subject to the
following restrictions.
   (A)   No snowmobiles may be operated within the city limits during the hours
of darkness except as provided by division (G) below and §
74.04.
   (B)   All snowmobiles operated on city roadways shall display a 12-inch by
12-inch orange flag attached to the snowmobile or vehicle in such a manner that
the bottom of the flag measures 60 inches from the roadway surface.
   (C)   City roadways may only be used for travel in the most direct route to
and from the municipal city limits except as provided in division (G) below and
§
74.04.
   (D)   All snowmobiles are prohibited from operating on Main Street and
Second Street, except for crossing and except as provided in division (G) below
and §
74.04.
   (E)   Snowmobiles are prohibited from operating in all city parks and
recreation areas.
   (F)   All snowmobiles operated within the city shall be subject to the same
traffic ordinances, rules and regulations as pertain to the operation of motor
vehicles when the snowmobiles are operated on city roadways.
   (G)   In the event of an emergency, permission may be granted by any law
enforcement officer, the Mayor or County Civil Defense Director for the use of
the city roadways which permission shall waive the restrictions of divisions
(A) and (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.03) (Ord. 418, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 925,
passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 TRAVEL ON CLOSED ROADWAYS.
   The Mayor or Chief of Police may also permit persons, associations or clubs
formed by vehicle owners of snowmobiles or all-terrain vehicles to operate on
roadways which are closed to travel to other motor vehicles or which during the
hours of use by snowmobiles or all-terrain vehicles will be adequately posted
for warning to other motor vehicle operators. The permit shall specifically
define the routes and the time of day that the vehicle operators shall be
permitted to use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.04) (Ord. 418, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
74.99
§ 74.05 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive any type of
motorized vehicle on city-owned land off of a highway, street, alley or
recognized thoroughfare. This section does not apply to city-owned vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.05) (Ord. 513, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person guilty of violating §§
74.01 through
74.05 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.06) (Ord. 418, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck routes
      
II.   U-turns
      
III.   One-way streets
      
IV.   Four-way stops and three-way stops
      
V.   Yield signs
      
VI.   Stop signs
SCHEDULE I. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate any vehicle upon any street or alley
of the city, the gross weight of which, including the load, does not comply
with the requirements of South Dakota state law governing such vehicle.
   (B)   Those vehicles exceeding a gross vehicle weight of 55,000 pounds are
confined to the designated truck routes through the city, posted as a truck
route through signage, which are U.S. Highway 18, South Dakota Highway 44,
County Road, North Main Street, 316th Avenue, and Iowa Street from West Highway
18 to County Road.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any motor vehicle
exceeding a gross vehicle weight of 55,000 pounds on the streets or alleys
within the residential areas except when receiving or making deliveries to that
residential area. For those receiving or making deliveries with gross weights
exceeding 55,000 pounds, they shall not be permitted on any city street other
than a truck route unless they shall first have registered with and received
written permission from the Public Works Director in compliance with the
procedures set forth in §
94.009 (Contractor’s Responsibility) of this Code of Ordinances. The city’s
cost of repair for any resulting damage to city streets shall be the
responsibility of the operator of the overweight vehicle.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle
exceeding a gross vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds on the streets or alleys
within the residential areas of the city.
   (E)   Any construction project for which a haul road will be required must
be previously approved by the Public Works Director and must comply with §
94.009 (Contractor’s Responsibility) of this Code of Ordinances.
   (F)   Any police officer or the Public Works Director shall have the power
and authority to direct any vehicle be taken to the nearest truck scale and
weighed to determine the conformance with this Schedule I. The failure to
comply with such directions shall constitute a violation of this Schedule I.
   (G)   Any person violating this Schedule I shall be guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances. In addition, any contractor who fails to
restore the haul road shall be civilly liable to the city, for any damages done
to the haul road.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.30) (Ord. 521, passed - - ; Ord. 574, passed - - ; Ord.
731, passed - - ; Ord. 917, passed 2-4-2019; Ord. 969, passed 10-5-2020; Ord.
1052, passed 6-5-2023; Ord. 1063, passed 10-2-2023)
SCHEDULE II. U-TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be permitted to make a complete turn or a turn of 180
degrees on the following streets:
   (A)   The intersection of Main Street with Second Street;
   (B)   The intersection of Third Street and Fourth Street;
   (C)   On East Seventh Street between the intersections of:
      (1)   East Seventh and Main; and
      (2)   East Seventh and East County Road.
   (D)   The intersection of U.S. Highway 18-183 with South Dakota Highway 44
on the eastern edge of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.01) (Ord. 177, passed - -; Ord. 389, passed - -; Ord. 443,
passed - -; Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 487, passed - -; Ord. 497, passed - -;
Ord. 731, passed - -)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The city shall install appropriate traffic-control signs to designate one-
way streets.
   (A)   (1)   The portion of Main Street from its intersection with Highway 18
south to its intersection with Fifth Street is hereby declared to be a one-way
street. Traffic upon that portion of Main Street herein described, shall move
one-way in a southerly direction only.   
      (2)   Division (A)(1) above, shall remain in effect until that portion of
the Highway 18 reconstruction project which intersects with Main Street is
completed in about the year 2020 or thereafter whenever such occurs, and when
traffic signals have been installed and activated at the intersection of Main
Street and Highway 18, thereafter division (A)(1) above shall be repealed and
replaced with the following: “Traffic upon all of Main Street shall travel in
two directions, with traffic in each direction traveling on its own right hand
side of the street, and no portion of Main Street shall be a one-way
street.”   
   (B)   All vehicular traffic traveling on Third Street between South County
Road and West Park Street shall travel in one-way from west to east.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.02) (Ord. 451, passed - -; Ord. 453, passed - -; Ord. 475,
passed - -; Ord. 694, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 928, passed 5-20-
2019)
SCHEDULE IV. FOUR-WAY STOPS AND THREE-WAY STOPS.
   (A)   Four-way stops. The Public Works Director, acting pursuant to §
71.01, is hereby authorized to place and maintain on each and every through- or
arterial street intersecting a through- or arterial street, or at such other
locations as the Public Works Director determines to be appropriate, stop signs
on all four corners.
   (B)   Three-way stops. The Public Works Director shall be authorized to
place and maintain a three-way stop at appropriate intersections such as Main
Street and Seventh Street which does not require southbound traffic on Main
Street to stop.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.03) (Ord. 475, passed - -; Ord. 604, passed - -; Ord. 696,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 1065, passed 10-16-2023)
SCHEDULE V. YIELD SIGNS.
    The Public Works Director, acting pursuant to §
71.01, is hereby authorized to place and maintain at the intersection of any
street or alley with any other street where in his or her discretion traffic
conditions justify such action, appropriate signs bearing the words “Yield” or
“Yield Right-of-Way.”
(Prior Code, § 7.02.04) (Ord. 454, passed - -; Ord. 634, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 1065, passed 10-16-2023)
SCHEDULE VI. STOP SIGNS.
    The Public Works Director, acting pursuant to §
71.01, is hereby authorized to place and maintain at the intersection of any
street or alley with any other street where in his or her discretion traffic
conditions justify such action, stop signs.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.05) (Ord. 180, passed - -; Ord. 299, passed - -; Ord. 397,
passed - -; Ord. 452, passed - -; Ord. 454, passed - -; Ord. 590, passed - -;
Ord. 629, passed - -; Ord. 630, passed - -; Ord. 631, passed - -; Ord. 632,
passed - -; Ord. 723, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 819, passed - -;
Ord. 878, passed - -; Ord. 1065, passed 10-16-2023)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Diagonal parking
      
II.   Disabled parking
      
III.   Parking distances
SCHEDULE I. DIAGONAL PARKING.
   All vehicles parked upon the Main Street of the city shall be parked at an
angle with curb approximately 45 degrees with the front wheel touching the
curb, or where diagonal parking spaces have been painted or marked off on said
street, such vehicles parked thereon must be parked at an angle to conform to
and be within said parking spaces with the front wheel touching the curb. It
shall be unlawful for any driver of any vehicle to park such vehicle in the
center of the Main Street.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.02) (Ord. 155, passed - -; Ord. 469, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
SCHEDULE II. DISABLED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle operator to park a vehicle in the city
in any parking space on public or private property, which is clearly designated
or reserved for the physically disabled, except an operator who displays
license plates or placards bearing the international wheelchair insignia, or
other appropriate insignia, on a vehicle parked by the operator or under his or
her discretion and for his or her use.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.03) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 918, passed 2-4-2019)
SCHEDULE III. PARKING DISTANCES.
   Vehicles, motor or otherwise, may be parked upon the south side of Sixth
Street; said vehicle so parked to be parallel to the curb and no closer than
four feet to any other vehicle, front and rear, and the front and rear wheels
on the right of such vehicle shall not be more than 12 inches from the curb. No
vehicle, motor or otherwise having a width exceeding six feet six inches shall
be permitted to park on 6th Street.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.12) (Ord. 189, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   STREETS, HIGHWAYS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   TREES
      
97.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Injury to animals
   
90.02   Domestic fowls at large
   
90.03   Animals at large
Dogs
   
90.15   Dog(s) running at large
   
90.16   Control of dog on own property
   
90.17   Control of dog(s) while off owner’s premises
   
90.18   Enforcement
   
90.19   Claiming of dog(s)
   
90.20   Impounding of dog(s)
   
90.21   Vaccination of dog(s)
   
90.22   Animals infected with rabies
   
90.23   Disturbance of peace
   
90.24   Public pound
   
90.25   Fierce, dangerous or vicious dogs
Cats
   
90.40   Number of cats
   
90.41   Nuisance
   
90.42   Exceptions to subchapter
Livestock
   
90.55   Animals within city limits
   
90.56   Keeping and/or feeding of animals in city limits
   
90.57   Incorporated district limits
   
90.58   Description of enclosures
   
90.59   Nuisance declaration
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 INJURY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall in the city cruelly or immoderately beat, maim, wound,
torture or injure any horse, mule, cow or other animal whether it belongs to
himself, herself or to another; nor shall any person carry in or upon any
vehicle or otherwise in a cruel and inhuman manner any animal. It shall be
unlawful for any person to willfully or negligently maltreat any domestic
animal by exposure to heat or cold, by deprivation from food or water for more
than 12 hours, by leaving hitched in the open air during cold weather or during
storms or in the night time, or by willfully abandoning to die any sick or
disabled animal. Any police officer shall take charge of any such animal and
cause the same to be taken care of and the charges therefor shall be a lien on
said animal and a legal charge against the owner thereof, and such action by
any police officer shall not exempt the owner or person in charge of such
animal from punishment for such offense.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.01) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 DOMESTIC FOWLS AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person shall allow any ducks, geese, chickens or other domestic
fowls to run at large in the city.
   (B)   No person shall enclose or house any ducks, geese, chickens or other
domestic fowls in any house, pen, coup, enclosure or other building situated
within a distance of 25 feet of any dwelling house, store or other building
used as a residence of any person, or within 25 feet of any church, school or
other public building.
   (C)   No person shall keep or allow to be kept on their property any
domestic fowl rooster.
   (D)   Any violation of this section shall be a Class 2 misdemeanor and shall
be punishable according to §
10.99 of this Code.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.02) (Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 971,
passed 10-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer any horses, cattle,
swine, sheep, goats or other animals to run at large in the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.03) (Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.15 DOG(S) RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to have any dog owned, controlled or harbored
by such person to run at large on the streets, alleys or property of any other
persons within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.04) (Ord. 367, passed - -; Ord. 709, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 CONTROL OF DOG ON OWN PROPERTY.
   Any person owning, controlling or harboring any dog within the corporate
limits shall keep the dog tied, leashed or otherwise controlled upon the
property of person owning, controlling or harboring said dog so that said dog
cannot run at large off of property of persons. By AT LARGE, it is intended to
mean off the premises of the owner or a member of his or her immediate family
over the age of 12, either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.05) (Ord. 367, passed - -; Ord. 709, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 CONTROL OF DOG(S) WHILE OFF OWNER’S PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring or controlling any dog
within the corporate limits to have said dog off the premises of said persons
without said animal being held in leash and accompanied by said persons or
their authorized representative and said dog shall be absolutely held in leash
by a person over the age of 12 years at any time said dog is allowed off said
premises. A LEASH is a cord, thong or chain not more than ten feet in length of
sufficient strength to control said dog. A dog in an automobile shall be deemed
on the owner's property. It shall separately be unlawful for any person owning,
harboring or controlling any dog within the corporate limits to permit or allow
said dog to defecate on public property or on the property of another unless
said person shall forthwith pick up the solid waste and properly dispose of the
same in a plastic bag or other container by placing the container-held waste in
a dumpster, trash can or other regular trash disposal container.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.06) (Ord. 367, passed - -; Ord. 709, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 1042, passed 10-17-2022)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to keep this
subchapter enforced and if any dog is found running at large within the
corporate limits in violation of §§
90.15 through
90.17, the police officers are hereby charged with the duty to pick up said dog
which is in violation of this subchapter and hold said dog for a period not to
exceed seven days.
   (B)   If said dog is not claimed by the person owning, controlling or
harboring said dog within said seven-day period, said police officers or their
designated agent shall immediately transfer the dog to a shelter.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.07) (Ord. 367, passed - -; Ord. 501, passed - -; Ord. 709,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 947, passed 5-4-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 CLAIMING OF DOG(S).
   In the event a dog is claimed as provided for in §
90.18, said person owning, controlling or harboring the dog shall pay the sum
of $3 per day, or a fraction thereof, to the city for the cost of keeping said
animal.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.08) (Ord. 367, passed - -; Ord. 709, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
§ 90.20 IMPOUNDING OF DOG(S).
   No dog of fierce, dangerous or vicious propensities, and no female dog in
heat, whether licensed or not, shall run at large or upon the premises of any
person other than the owner. If any such animal is found running at large, it
shall be taken up and impounded and shall not be released except on the
approval of the Chief of Police after payment of the fees provided in §
90.19; provided, however, that if any dangerous, fierce or vicious dog so found
at large can not safely be taken up and impounded such dog may be immediately
slain by any police officer. A dog is declared to be FIERCE, DANGEROUS AND
VICIOUS within the meaning of this section when it shall have bitten any person
or when the propensity to attack or bite human beings shall exist and is known
or ought reasonably to be known to the owner or any member of the owner’s
family over 16 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.09) (Ord. 709, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.21 VACCINATION OF DOG(S).
   All animals which may be immunized by rabies shots, and located within the
corporate limits or within one mile of the corporate limits, must be so
vaccinated for rabies and such vaccination must be current. In the event that
any animal is picked up in violation of any of the provisions of this section
and shall be found to not have been vaccinated for rabies shall be held for a
period of not less than 14 days and then destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.10) (Ord. 367, passed - -; Ord. 709, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
§ 90.22 ANIMALS INFECTED WITH RABIES.
   Any person who shall suspect that any animal in the city is infected with
rabies or hydrophobia, shall report such to the police of health authorities,
describing the animal and giving the name of the owner, if known. If, upon
examination by the health authorities, the dog shall prove in fact to be
infected with said disease, the animal may be killed. When the health
authorities have determined that an animal found in the city is infected with
rabies or hydrophobia, the Mayor may, upon written advice from the health
authorities that the public safety and general welfare require it, order by
proclamation that all animals be muzzled when off the premises of the owner,
and that all unmanned animals when found off the premises of the owner be
immediately seized and impounded, and may further order that, after the
proclamation has been published for 48 hours, either by posting or printing in
a newspaper of general circulation in the city, all animals found off the
premises of the owner unmuzzled shall be seized, impounded and killed, except
that an officer may immediately kill any such unmuzzled animal, if with
reasonable effort it cannot be first seized or impounded. All animals seized
and impounded during the first 48 hours after the publishing of any such
proclamation, shall, if claimed within 14 days, be returned to the owner
thereof without any impounding charge or cost, if not infected with hydrophobia
or rabies, or any animal known to have been bitten by an animal known to be
infected with rabies or hydrophobia.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.11) (Ord. 367, passed - -; Ord. 709, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
§ 90.23 DISTURBANCE OF PEACE.
   The owner of any animal shall not suffer or allow the same to disturb the
peace and quiet of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.12) (Ord. 367, passed - -; Ord. 709, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 PUBLIC POUND.
   The Council shall establish and maintain a public pound upon property owned
by the city. Such public pound shall be under the charge and direction of the
Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.13) (Ord. 367, passed - -; Ord. 709, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
§ 90.25 FIERCE, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   The term FIERCE, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOG as used in this section, in
addition to the provisions set forth in §
90.20, shall include any animal which, according to documented records, has
inflicted serious injury on a human being on public or private property; any
animal which, according to documented records, has killed or seriously injured
a domestic animal while off of the owners property; any animal owned or
harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of fighting, or any animal
trained for fighting; any animal which chases or approaches a person upon the
streets, sidewalks or any public or private property in a menacing fashion or
apparent attitude of attack; and any animal of a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack, to cause injury or to otherwise threaten the safety of
human beings or animals.
   (B)   The term FIERCE, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOG as used in this section
shall not apply to a dog if the sole documented record applies to a threat,
injury or damage sustained by a person who at the time was committing a willful
trespass or other tort; or who was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting
the animal, or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have teased,
tormented, abused or assaulted the animal; or who was committing or attempting
to commit a crime.
   (C)   Any owner who allows a fierce, dangerous or vicious dog to be or
remain within the city in violation of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a Class 2 Misdemeanor and if convicted will be guilty of a further
violation each day that such condition is allowed to exist or goes uncorrected.
However, once given notice of the requirement for removal by any city official,
the owner of the dog shall have ten days following such notice to effectuate
removal, so long as sufficient precautions are taken to prevent the dog from
having any opportunity to come in contact with any member of the public during
that time period; but if the dog is not properly restricted and controlled
during that time period, the owner shall be subject to being immediately
charged with violation of this section with a further separate violation each
day that such condition is allowed to exist or goes uncorrected. In addition,
if such violation occurs during the ten-day period, the police shall impound
the animal at the City Pound, subject to the normal costs and fees, and the dog
shall not be released to the owner except for direct removal from the city. If
the dog cannot be safely taken up and impounded such dog may be immediately
slain by any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.14) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 852, passed - - ; Ord.
970, passed 10-5-2020 ) Penalty, see §
90.99
CATS
§ 90.40 NUMBER OF CATS.
   Any person who shall keep, own or harbor more than three adult cats within
the corporate limits shall be guilty of creating a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.01) (Ord. 324, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.41 NUISANCE.
   The keeping, owning or harboring more than three adult cats within the
corporate limits shall constitute and is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.02) (Ord. 324, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.42 EXCEPTIONS TO SUBCHAPTER.
   Any licensed veterinarian or kennel doing business within the said corporate
limits shall be excepted and excluded from the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.03) (Ord. 324, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
LIVESTOCK
§ 90.55 ANIMALS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the district
hereinafter described, in and around the city, unless the regulations
hereinafter prescribed are strictly followed, any pen, building, yard, shed or
enclosure, wherein any cattle, horses, sheep or swine are collected, kept or
fed by the owner, lessee or occupant of any property therein.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.01) (Ord. 302, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.56 KEEPING AND/OR FEEDING OF ANIMALS IN CITY LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, keep or feed, any cattle,
horses, sheep or swine within any pen, building, yard, shed or enclosure within
said district unless the regulations hereinafter prescribed are strictly
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.02) (Ord. 302, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.57 INCORPORATED DISTRICT LIMITS.
   Said district shall comprise all of that part of the incorporated limits of
the city and all areas within one mile of the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.03) (Ord. 302, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 90.58 DESCRIPTION OF ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, buildings, yards, sheds or enclosures as hereinbefore described
and included within the hereinbefore described district shall be maintained in
such a manner that no offensive or nauseous odor shall emit from the same.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.04) (Ord. 302, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 90.59 NUISANCE DECLARATION.
   The keeping or maintenance within the district aforesaid of any such pens,
buildings, yards, sheds or enclosures in violation of the regulations of this
subchapter, or the collecting, keeping or feeding of any cattle, sheep or swine
in violation of the regulations of this subchapter or the keeping or
maintaining of any such pens, buildings, yards, sheds or enclosures where there
shall emit from the same any offensive or nauseous odor, shall constitute and
is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.06) (Ord. 302, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any owner who allows a fierce, dangerous or vicious dog to be or
remain within the city in violation of the provisions of §
90.25 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and if convicted will be guilty
of a further violation each day that such condition is allowed to exist or goes
uncorrected.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.14)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.55 through
90.59 shall upon conviction thereof be fined pursuant to §
10.99 and each and every day any such pens, buildings, yards, sheds or
enclosures shall be kept or maintained in violation of the regulations of §§
90.55 through
90.59, or that any cattle, sheep or swine shall be collected, kept of fed
therein, in violation of the regulations of §§
90.55 through
90.59, or where there shall emit from the pens, buildings, yards, sheds or
enclosures any offensive or nauseous odor, within said district, shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.05)
(Ord. 302, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 852, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Storing, parking or leaving abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperable,
junked or partially dismantled motor vehicles declared nuisance; exceptions
   
91.03   Storing, parking or leaving dismantled or other such motor vehicles on
public property prohibited
   
91.04   Removal
   
91.05   Notice to owner
   
91.06   Sale of unclaimed motor vehicle
   
91.07   Notice of sale
   
91.08   Lien for cost
   
91.09   Title may vest in city; when
   
91.10   Citation
   
91.11   Duty of private property owners
   
91.12   Notice to remove
   
91.13   Responsibilities for removal
   
91.14   Notice procedure
   
91.15   Content of notice
   
91.16   Racing vehicle or antique vehicle
   
91.17   Removal
   
91.18   Notice to owner
   
91.19   Contents of notice
   
91.20   Sale of unclaimed motor vehicles
   
91.21   Notice of sale
   
91.22   Title may vest in city; when
   
91.23   Voluntary relinquishment
   
91.24   Disposal process
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, as defined in this section,
which is left unattended on any public street, alley, public place or parking
lot within the city for a longer period than 24 hours without notifying the
Chief of Police and making arrangements for the parking of such motor vehicle.
   ANTIQUE/COLLECTIBLE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle having special value because
of its age or characteristics and does not meet the junked motor vehicle
definitions.
   CITY. The City of Winner.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, as herein defined, which has not
physically moved 25 feet in a six-month period, or which is not in operating
condition due to damage or removal or inoperability of one or more tires and
wheels, damage or removal or inoperability of the engine or other essential
parts required for the operation of the vehicle, or which does not have
lawfully affixed thereto a valid state license plate or which constitutes an
immediate health, safety, fire or traffic hazard.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed
thereto a valid state license plate or plates, or the condition of which is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperable or discarded.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is designed to travel along, or on the
ground or water and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, including three-wheel or all-terrain vehicles,
motorscooters, snowmobiles, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf carts, campers,
trailers, boats, jet skis and farm equipment.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not public property as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley or highway, or boulevard which shall
include the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained for the purposes of vehicular travel, and also means any other
publicly owned property or facility.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.01) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.02 STORING, PARKING OR LEAVING ABANDONED, WRECKED, DISMANTLED, INOPERABLE,
JUNKED OR PARTIALLY DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLES DECLARED NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperable, junked
or partially dismantled motor vehicle or parts thereof on private or public
property is a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any motor vehicle screened from public
view behind a privacy fence or enclosed within a building on private property
or to any motor vehicle held in connection with a business enterprise, lawfully
licensed by the city and properly operated in the appropriate business zone,
pursuant to the zoning laws of the city. A motor vehicle in operable condition
specifically adopted or designed for operation on drag strips or raceways,
covered by an appropriate fence or building to screen it from view during non-
racing seasons, may be kept on private property. A motor vehicle in operating
condition retained by the owner for antique collection purposes, covered by an
appropriate fence or building to screen it from view may be kept on private
property. All other motor vehicles must be in an appropriate enclosed building
or fenced area with the vehicles out of the public view.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to a maximum of one otherwise prohibited
vehicle on a parcel of private property that is not screened from public view
behind a privacy fence or enclosed within a building, as long as such vehicle
is kept completely covered by a properly-fitting vehicle cover maintained in
good condition. A common tarp shall not be acceptable.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.02) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -; Ord. 981,
passed 1-4-2021)
§ 91.03 STORING, PARKING OR LEAVING DISMANTLED OR OTHER SUCH MOTOR VEHICLES ON
PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or leaving
of any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, inoperable, junked or partially
dismantled motor vehicle of any kind, whether attended or not, upon any public
property or right-of-way within the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.03) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
91.99
§ 91.04 REMOVAL.
   Whenever any police officer finds an abandoned motor vehicle or an
unattended motor vehicle which is in a wrecked, dismantled, inoperable, junked
or partially dismantled condition on public property within the city, he or she
shall place on the vehicle a notice to remove within 24 hours or the vehicle
will be towed. If the vehicle is not removed within the 24-hour time limit, the
police officers are authorized to provide the removal of such motor vehicle to
a garage or place of safety as designated by the city. A motor vehicle which
causes an obstruction and hazard to traffic may be removed at any time under
the direction of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.04) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.05 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   It is the duty of the Police Department to notify, by certified mail,
or by personal delivery, the registered owner, if known, and if encumbered, the
lien holder, of the removal and storage of any motor vehicle under the
provisions of this chapter and where such motor vehicle has been stored. If the
owner or his or her address in unknown, a notice of removal and storage shall
be given by the publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county. If the owner, for whatever reason is not contacted after reasonable
efforts have been made to contact him or her, a notice of removal and storage
shall be given by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county.
   (B)   The notice shall set forth the date and place of the taking, the year,
make, model and serial number of the abandoned or wrecked motor vehicle and the
place where the vehicle is being held, and shall inform the owner and any
lienholders of their right to reclaim the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.05) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.06 SALE OF UNCLAIMED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   If, after 60 days from the date of mailing or publishing notice of removal
and storage provided for by this chapter, the motor vehicle shall remained
unclaimed, such motor vehicle may be sold by the Police Department at public
auction upon notice of sale to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county not less than once a week for two consecutive weeks.
The removal agency shall have the rights and obligations conferred upon it by
SDCL § 32-36 in regard to titling or disposition of such unclaimed, abandoned
or inoperable vehicle, except that, if not otherwise provided by state law, it
shall have possessionary lien upon any vehicle removed under the provisions of
this subchapter for the costs or reasonable charges in taking custody of and
storing such vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.06) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.07 NOTICE OF SALE.
   The notice of sale provided for by this chapter shall contain a description
of the removed and stored motor vehicle, including the year, make, model,
serial number, color, license number, if any, a statement that the motor
vehicle was found abandoned, the date thereof and the place, date and time at
which such motor vehicle shall be sold, which date shall not be sooner than one
week following the date of the last publication of notice.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.07) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.08 LIEN FOR COST.
   The city shall have a possessory lien upon any motor vehicle removed under
the provisions of this chapter for the costs in taking custody, including
towing and storing, of such motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.08) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.09 TITLE MAY VEST IN CITY; WHEN.
   If, after 60 days from the date of mailing or publishing the notice of
removal and storage provided for by this chapter, the motor vehicle shall
remain unclaimed, the title to such motor vehicle shall be vested in the city
and such motor vehicle may be disposed of as set out in this chapter. The
proceeds of any such disposal shall first be applied to the costs incurred in
the enforcement of this chapter with the balance to be deposited to the General
Fund of the city. The removal agency shall have the rights and obligations
conferred upon it by SDCL § 32-36 in regard to titling or disposition of such
unclaimed, abandoned or inoperative vehicle, except that, if not otherwise
provided by state law, it shall have a possessionary lien upon any vehicle
removed under provision of this chapter for the costs for reasonable charges in
taking custody of, including towing and storing such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.09) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.10 CITATION.
   If a vehicle as described in this chapter is located upon public property
and the police officer gives notice of removal within 24 hours and the vehicle
is not removed, the police officer shall then arrange for immediate removal of
the vehicle and issue a citation to the owner, lessee or person having
possession of the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.10) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.11 DUTY OF PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNERS.
   No persons owning, in charge of or in control of any real property within
the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow
any wrecked, dismantled, inoperable, junked or partially dismantled motor
vehicle of any kind to remain on such property longer than five days.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.11) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
91.99
§ 91.12 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Whenever it comes to the attention of the Police Department or the Code
Enforcement Officer that any person has a wrecked, dismantled, inoperable,
junked or partially dismantled motor vehicle on his or her property, a notice
in writing shall be served upon such person requesting the removal of such
motor vehicle within 20 days or such notice may be served by certified mail
requesting the removal of such motor vehicle within 20 days. After notice to
remove is given and the vehicle is not moved within the allotted day period,
the city may cause the vehicle to be removed by any third party commercial
towing or salvage operator, and the owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
possessor shall be responsible for the towing charges and storage costs charged
by the third party operator.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.12) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -; Ord. 981,
passed 1-4-2021)
§ 91.13 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR REMOVAL.
   Upon proper notice, the owner, lessee or possessor of the wrecked,
dismantled, inoperable, junked or partially dismantled motor vehicle and the
owner or occupant of the private property on which the same is located, either
or all of them, shall be responsible for its removal.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.13) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.14 NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   The Police Department or Code Enforcement Officer shall give notice of
removal to the owner or occupant of the private property where it is located.
It shall constitute sufficient notice when a copy of the same is sent by
certified mail or personally delivered to the owner or occupant of the private
property at his or her last known address.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.14) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.15 CONTENT OF NOTICE.
   The notice shall contain the request for removal within 20 days after the
mailing of such notice by certified mail or after the notice is served
personally upon the owner or occupant of the private property, and the notice
shall advise that failure to comply with the notice to remove shall be a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.15) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -; Ord. 981,
passed 1-4-2021)
§ 91.16 RACING VEHICLE OR ANTIQUE VEHICLE.
   No owner or occupant of private property shall have a motor vehicle
specifically adopted or designed for operation on drag strips or raceways or a
motor vehicle retained on private property for antique collection purposes
unless such race cars or antique vehicles are either parked inside of a
building or parked behind a privacy fence shielding the vehicle from public
view, or kept completely covered by a properly-fitting vehicle cover maintained
in good condition; a common tarp shall not be acceptable. This section shall
not apply to a vehicle used on drag strips or raceways that is kept on private
property for short periods of time between races during the regular racing
season.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.16) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -; Ord. 981,
passed 1-4-2021)
§ 91.17 REMOVAL.
   If the vehicle is not removed within the period of time allotted in the
notice described above, then the code enforcement officer or police officers
are authorized to provide for the removal of said motor vehicle to a garage or
place of safety as designated by any third party commercial towing or salvage
operator.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.17) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -; Ord. 981,
passed 1-4-2021)
§ 91.18 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   After the removal of the vehicle to a garage or place of safety as
designated by the third party commercial towing or salvage operator, it shall
be the duty of the Police Department or the Code Enforcement Officer to notify,
by certified mail or by personal delivery, the registered owner, if known, and
if encumbered, the lienholder, of the removal and storage of any motor vehicle
under the provisions of this chapter and where such motor vehicle has been
stored. If the owner or his or her address is unknown, a notice of removal and
storage shall be given by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the county. If the owner, for whatever reason, is not contacted after
reasonable efforts have been made to contact him or her, a notice of removal
and storage shall be given by one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.18) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -; Ord. 981,
passed 1-4-2021)
§ 91.19 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice shall set forth the date and place of the taking, the year, the
make, the model and serial number of the abandoned, or wrecked motor vehicle
and the place where the vehicle is being held, and shall inform the owner and
any lienholders of their rights to reclaim the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.19) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.20 SALE OF UNCLAIMED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   If, after 30 days from the date of mailing or publishing a notice of removal
and storage provided by this chapter, the motor vehicle shall remain unclaimed,
such motor vehicle may be sold by the Police Department at public auction upon
notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county not
less than once a week for two consecutive weeks.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.20) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.21 NOTICE OF SALE.
   The notice of sale provided for by this chapter shall contain a description
of the removed and stored motor vehicle, including the year, make, model,
serial number, color, license number, if any; a statement that the motor
vehicle was removed from private property and is wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative, the date of the removal thereof, and the place, date and time at
which such motor vehicle shall be sold, which date shall not be sooner than one
week following the date of the last publication of notice.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.21) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.22 TITLE MAY VEST IN CITY; WHEN.
   (A)   If after 30 days from the date of mailing or publishing the notice of
removal and storage provided for by this chapter, the motor vehicle shall
remain unclaimed, the title to such motor vehicle shall be vested in the city
and such motor vehicle may be disposed of in any manner as may be provided by
the City Council. The proceeds of any such disposal shall first be applied to
the costs incurred in the enforcement of this chapter with the balance to be
deposited to the General Fund of the city.
   (B)   The removal agency shall have the rights and obligations conferred
upon it by SDCL § 32-36 in regard to titling or disposition of such unclaimed,
abandoned or inoperative vehicle, except that, if not otherwise provided by
state law, it shall have a possessionary lien upon any vehicle removed under
provision of this chapter for the costs for reasonable charges in taking
custody of, including towing and storing such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.22) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -)
§ 91.23 VOLUNTARY RELINQUISHMENT.
   Any person who owns any wrecked, dismantled, inoperable, junked or partially
dismantled motor vehicle within the city may voluntarily relinquish the
ownership and possession thereof to a salvage operator. The city will provide
the owner of the vehicle with a list of salvage operators then known to the
city. It will be the responsibility of the vehicle owner to arrange with the
salvage operator for the vehicle's removal from the city. If there are any
lienholders recorded on the title to the vehicle, those liens may need to be
released before the salvage operator will accept the vehicle.
(Ord. 963, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 91.24 DISPOSAL PROCESS.
   Upon the voluntary relinquishment of any vehicle pursuant to §
91.23, the title will be given by the vehicle owner to the salvage operator who
removes the vehicle, and that title may be delivered to the Tripp County
Treasurer for purposes of obtaining a junk vehicle title. The city will not
receive any interest in the vehicle at any time, will not be responsible for
the performance of any agreement made between the vehicle owner and the salvage
operator, and will not pay or compensate the salvage operator in any way.
(Ord. 963, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.23)
   (B)   Any person who has received at least two notices to remove a wrecked,
dismantled, inoperable, junked or partially dismantled motor vehicle from his
or her property within a 12-month period, and who continues to allow additional
wrecked, dismantled, inoperable, junked or partially dismantled motor vehicles
on his or her property within the same 12-month period may, in addition to
being given notice to remove the offending vehicle(s) and being required to
otherwise comply with this chapter, be charged with a misdemeanor violation of
§
91.11 and fined pursuant to division (A) above even if such person removes the
offending vehicle(s) within the notice period set forth in §
91.12.
(Prior Code, § 9.03.12.1)
(Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 740, passed - -; Ord. 896, passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Protection of park property
   
92.02   Fees for electrical use of ball fields
   
92.03   Protection of trees and shrubbery
   
92.04   Rubbish
   
92.05   Interfering with animals and birds
   
92.06   Protection of grass
   
92.07   Selling goods
   
92.08   Children playing
   
92.09   Boulevards
   
92.10   Disorderly conduct
   
92.11   Animals
   
92.12   Parks open and close
   
92.13   Electricity
   
92.14   Enforcement
   
92.15   Use of city property (liability insurance)
   
92.16   Insurance requirement
   
92.17   Winner Youth Bass Pond; open and close
   
92.18   Swimming prohibited
Trees and Shrubs
   
92.30   Tree planting responsibility
   
92.31   Location of trees
   
92.32   Trimming tree branches
   
92.33   Dead or damaged trees and the pruning of trees
   
92.34   Interference of trees
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PROTECTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mar, injure, break or in any
way interfere with any house, building, bridge or other property situated in
any public park belonging to the city. No person shall distribute any handbills
or erect any sign board or posts, or affix any notice or bill or other writing
or printing to any tree, post, building or other structure within such park, or
possess any glass containers in the parks.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.01) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.02 FEES FOR ELECTRICAL USE OF BALL FIELDS.
   (A)   The city provides the electrical power to the lights for Leahy Bowl,
softball complex, McDonald’s and Bailey Park.
   (B)   Organizations wishing to use the lighting system shall:
      (1)   Submit a schedule of baseball or softball games and practice
sessions to the City Finance Officer for evening usage; and
      (2)   Make arrangements for access to the locked electrical system, as
determined by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.02) (Ord. 673, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 881,
passed - -)
§ 92.03 PROTECTION OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to climb any trees, or to cut, break,
pluck, root up or in any way disturb any tree, flower, shrub, plant or bulb,
placed or growing in or upon any park, boulevard, parkway, park road or other
public ground of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.03) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.04 RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or agent of land abutting upon
any park, boulevard, parkway or park road in the city to allow any litter,
rubbish or offal from said land to fall or wash upon any part of said park,
boulevard, parkway or park road. It shall be unlawful for any person to throw
or deposit, or cause to be thrown or deposited, any litter, dirt, offal or
rubbish of any kind upon such park, boulevard, parkway or park road, or in any
lake or stream within or adjoining any park, boulevard, parkway or park road
under the control of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.04) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.05 INTERFERING WITH ANIMALS AND BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, wound, throw stones or other
missiles at, or in any way injure or chase, or by any means intentionally scare
or chase any animal, bird or fowl within any public park in the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.05) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 727, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 PROTECTION OF GRASS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lead or drive any horse or other
animal or any vehicle, bicycle or motor vehicle over or upon any of the grass
plots or planting spaces of any park, boulevard, parkway or park road, except
at such places as provided for the parking of vehicles. However, handicapped
people in wheelchairs may enter the park.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.06) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 727, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 SELLING GOODS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any hawking or peddling, or to
sell or offer for sale any goods, wares or merchandise in any of the public
parks of the city, unless such person has been granted concession for the sale
of refreshments therein by the Council. The concessionaire shall collect and
dispose of any trash, rubbish or litter at least once every 24 hours or more
often as directed by the Public Works Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.07) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 727, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 CHILDREN PLAYING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit children, or any person, to
play any games or do any running around upon any of the grass plots or planting
spaces under construction within any park or parkway within the city, and all
children shall be accompanied by their parents or other guardians.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.08) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 727, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 BOULEVARDS.
   Any person owning or occupying any lot or parcel of land in this city shall
keep in order the grass plots between the sidewalk and the curb line and cut
the weeds and remove rubbish or other obstruction thereon, except such as
placed thereon by permit of the governing body of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.09) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 727, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall commit any act of disorderly, unchaste or lewd conduct, or
habitual loafing, or sleep on the ground or benches. No person shall engage in
any quarrel or fight, or mark, aid or assist in making any disorderly noise,
riot or disturbance of the peace within the limits of any park, boulevard,
parkway, park road or public ground within the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.10) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 727, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any dog or other animal within
any park within the city unless the same is kept in control by a leash. It
shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dog or other animal owned by him
or her or accompanying him or her to run loose in or about the parks of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.11) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 727, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 PARKS OPEN AND CLOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except caretakers, employed laborers,
police officers or other persons with express authority of the City Council, to
be in, about, or upon any of the public parks belonging to the city between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. local time. Overnight camping will not be
permitted.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.12) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 727, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 889, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.13 ELECTRICITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use city electricity within any
public park, baseball or softball field, or concession stand for unscheduled
events without approval of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.13) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 727, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all police officers and any special employees
employed by the city to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.14) (Ord. 163, passed - -; Ord. 727, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
§ 92.15 USE OF CITY PROPERTY (LIABILITY INSURANCE).
   (A)   Any person or group, who obtains permission from the city to use city
property for any activity that is for profit or personal gain wherein members
of the public are invited to attend, shall first acquire liability insurance in
an amount of at least $250,000 and shall name the city as an additional
insured.
   (B)   The city shall be held harmless by said organization for any and all
personal or property injuries that might occur to any person during such
activity.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.15) (Ord. 568, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 92.16 INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   Any person who does not obtain liability insurance as set out above shall be
prohibited from using city property.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.16) (Ord. 568, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 92.17 WINNER YOUTH BASS POND; OPEN AND CLOSE.
   (A)   The hours of use of the Winner Youth Bass Pond shall be the same as
the hours of use established for all city parks pursuant to §
92.12.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except caretakers, employed
laborers, police officers or other persons without the permission of the City
Council, to be in, about or upon any of the grounds at and around the Winner
Youth Bass Pond during hours when the parks are closed.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.17) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 SWIMMING PROHIBITED.
   (A)    The City Council shall establish swimming pool charges to be
collected from the users of the Winner swimming pool, by enactment of a
resolution setting such rates to be collected. Such rates shall include those
to be collected for daily rates, season passes, family passes and any other
category as the City Council shall determine. Rates for swimming lessons may
also be established in the same resolution.
   (B)    In each year following the initial establishment of the swimming pool
charges, unless the City Council shall establish otherwise, there shall be an
increase in all of the said swimming pool charges based upon CPI as defined
hereinafter, said charges to remain in effect through that current swimming
pool season. In every calendar year thereafter, there shall be an annual
increase in the charges based upon the CPI as defined hereinafter. On that
basis, effective in the year following enactment of this provision, and every
calendar year thereafter, each swimming pool charge shall be adjusted to equal
the prior calendar year’s charge plus the percentage of that prior year’s
charge that equals the most recently reported CPI.
   (C)   Whenever CPI is referred to herein, it shall mean the consumer price
index annual rate of inflation as determined by the US Bureau of Labor
Statistics (CPI). In all cases where a CPI increase is calculated, it shall be
rounded up to the nearest $0.25; but when applied to a subsequent year’s
increase, the previous actual (non-rounded) CPI calculation shall be used as
the basis upon which to calculate the next CPI increase. In any year where the
CPI is less than 2%, a minimum rate of 2% shall be applied.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.18) (Ord. 854, passed - - ; Ord. 1053, passed 6-19-2023)
Penalty, see §
92.99
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 92.30 TREE PLANTING RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The city is herein responsible for tree planting in all city parks and
established control of street tree planting on boulevards. Private planting of
trees is not subject to city control but the city encourages desirable species
and planting practices.
   (B)   No person shall plant or set out any tree or plant on a boulevard or
in a public place without first procuring permission from the Council. The
applicant shall state the number of trees or plants to be planted or set out;
the location and variety of each tree or plant; and such other information as
the city shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination of whether
permission shall be granted.
   (C)   The city shall grant permission for the planting of a tree or plant on
a boulevard or in a public place when it is found that the proposed planting
conforms with the area involved.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.01) (Ord. 533, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.31 LOCATION OF TREES.
   No street trees, except small trees, may be planted under or within ten feet
of overhead utility wires. No trees shall be planted over or within five feet
of any underground water, sewer or other service lines.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.02) (Ord. 533, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.32 TRIMMING TREE BRANCHES.
   (A)   Any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city shall
have the branches trimmed so that any such branches shall not block or
otherwise inhibit street and sidewalk traffic and signs controlling said
traffic.
   (B)   All large established trees shall be trimmed in such a manner so as to
allow ten feet clearance over sidewalks and 12 feet clearance over all streets;
provided, however, that trees along principal traffic thoroughfares shall be
trimmed so as to allow clearance of at least 16 feet.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property that obstructs the view of any street, intersection, street lighting
or visibility of any traffic-control device or sign or interferes with the
delivery of electrical services by overhead power lines or causes danger to
public safety or private or public property through transmission of electric
power by overhead distribution lines.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.03) (Ord. 533, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 777,
passed - -)
§ 92.33 DEAD OR DAMAGED TREES AND THE PRUNING OF TREES.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to prune and remove trees, plants and
shrubs within the access of all streets, alleys, avenues and lane rights-of-way
as may be necessary to ensure public safety and to prevent any injury to
sewers, electric power lines, water lines or other public improvements.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased tree on private property within the city. The city will notify in
writing the owners of the real estate where such trees are located and removal
shall be done by said owners at their own expense within 60 days after the date
of service of notice by registered or certified letter. In the event of failure
of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the authority to
remove such trees or contract for the removal of such trees and charge the cost
of removal of such trees to the owners of the property by special assessment on
the property tax notice. The city also may require the removal of dead branches
from trees that are partially dead in the same manner as set out above.
   (C)   If after giving notice, as set out above, the owner of real estate
where a dead or partially dead tree is located fails to remove the trees or the
dead part of a partially dead tree within 60 days, then the owner of said real
estate shall be in violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   If any owner of real estate fails to remove a dead or partially dead
tree, as set out in this subchapter within 60 days and the city elects to
remove said dead tree or partially dead tree or contract for the removal of the
same, it shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with
the city removal of said dead tree or partially dead tree.
   (E)   Any trees located upon real estate owned by any person which real
estate is subject to an easement by the city for street, sewer or other public
improvements, shall be liable under the provisions of this subchapter for the
removal of any dead tree or partially dead tree and it shall not be the
responsibility of the city to remove said tree or partially dead tree, unless
the trees are located upon real estate owned by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.04) (Ord. 654, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
91.99
§ 92.34 INTERFERENCE OF TREES.
   If at any time the trees, now or hereinafter, planted upon the parking of
any street in the city shall interfere with the electric light poles and wires
and the telephone poles and wires, said trees may be trimmed or removed under
the direction of the City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 10.02.05) (Ord. 654, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
92.17 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.17)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
92.18 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 10.01.18)
(Ord. 854, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Sales
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, or offer
for sale, or distribute or use fire crackers, Roman candles, torpedoes, sky
rockets or fireworks of any description with the exception of explosive caps
within the corporate limits of the city at any time of the year.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.01) (Ord. 91, passed - -; Ord. 220, passed - -; Ord. 233,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
93.01 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.03) (Ord. 91, passed - -; Ord. 220, passed - -)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS, HIGHWAYS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Location of sidewalk
   
94.002   Width of sidewalk
   
94.003   Parking
   
94.004   Water main location
   
94.005   Trees
   
94.006   Dedicated land
   
94.007   Sidewalk construction material
   
94.008   Supervision of construction
   
94.009   Contractor’s responsibility
Snow Removal and Snow Routes
   
94.020   Snow removal from private property
   
94.021   Snow and ice accumulation on downtown city sidewalks
   
94.022   Unlawful placement of snow or ice
   
94.023   Snow and ice removal from parking lots
   
94.024   Snow plowing alert
   
94.025   Emergency snow routes
   
94.026   Vehicle removal
Snow Removal From Highways
   
94.040   City responsibility
   
94.041   Highway right-of-way
Excavations
   
94.055   Permit required
   
94.056   Exceptions
   
94.057   Excavation of streets and sidewalks
   
94.058   Supervision of excavation and backfill
   
94.059   Excavation when ground is frozen
   
94.060   Backfilling procedure
   
94.061   Barricades and night warning lights
   
94.062   Completion of work by city
   
94.063   Restoration of improvements
   
94.064   Refund of deposit
Encroachments
   
94.075   Encroachments
   
94.076   Second Street
   
94.077   Ground supported encroachments
   
94.078   Temporary use of right-of-way
   
94.079   Continuation of encroachment
   
94.080   Federal aid projects
 
   
94.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 LOCATION OF SIDEWALK.
   (A)   The inner line of the sidewalk:
      (1)   Upon all 90-foot streets shall be 16 feet from the lot line;
      (2)   Upon all 60-foot streets shall be six feet from the lot line; and
      (3)   Upon all 40-foot streets shall be one foot from the lot line.
   (B)   (1)   The same shall apply to all streets upon which no sidewalks have
been constructed, except the following sidewalks, which shall be placed four
feet from the lot line:
         (a)   On the east side of Madison Street between First Street and
Second Street;
         (b)   Between Third Street and Fourth Street; and
         (c)   On the west side of Madison Street between First Street and
Fourth Street.
      (2)   Sidewalks to be constructed on either side of any other street in
the city shall be placed as to conform with the sidewalks already constructed
upon that side of the street.
   (C)   (1)   All blocks upon which curb and gutter have been constructed, the
sidewalk, with the consent of the majority of the abutting property owners,
shall be placed along and abutting the curb and gutter.
      (2)   Any trees, shrubbery, posts, fences or other obstructions planted,
constructed, or placed along any street shall be not less than four feet from
the inner edge of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.01) (Ord. 225, passed - -; Ord. 245, passed - -; Ord. 254,
passed - -; Ord. 297, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 94.002 WIDTH OF SIDEWALK.
   (A)   All sidewalks in front of lots on Main Street, between First and Fifth
Streets, shall be 16 feet in width. All sidewalks one block to the east and one
block to the west of Main Street on Second, Third and Fourth Streets shall be
eight feet in width and shall be placed four feet from the inside of the
sidewalk to the lot line. All other sidewalks, except those herein before
mentioned, shall be not less than four feet in width.
   (B)   All sidewalks in front of lots upon Sixth Street, or any 40-foot
street upon which no sidewalks have been constructed, shall be four feet in
width and the inner line thereof shall be placed one foot from the lot line.
Sidewalks that have already been constructed upon either side of Sixth Street,
or any other 40-foot streets, other sidewalks shall be constructed on either
side of said street so as to conform to the sidewalks already constructed.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.02) (Ord. 245, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 94.003 PARKING.
   The parking abutting:
   (A)   All 90-foot streets shall be 30 feet from the lot line;
   (B)   All 60-foot streets shall be 15 feet from the lot line; and
   (C)   All 40-foot streets shall be five feet from the lot line.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.03) (Ord. 245, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 94.004 WATER MAIN LOCATION.
   Where any water main of said city is located upon the line of any sidewalk
to be hereinafter built in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter,
such sidewalk shall be placed to the side of such water main so as not to
interfere with the digging up or repair of such main, but in no case shall the
outer line of such sidewalk be placed more than 20 feet from the lot line.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.04) (Ord. 245, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 94.005 TREES.
   If any trees are planted in the parking area upon any 90-foot street
mentioned herein, they shall be planted in the center of the parking area. No
trees shall be planted in the parking area upon any 40- or 60-foot streets, but
nothing in this subchapter shall effect the location of any trees already
planted in any such parking area where planted, pursuant to the provisions of
an ordinance then in force.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.05) (Ord. 245, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 94.006 DEDICATED LAND.
   The occupant, person in charge or owner of any lot in the city which abuts
or adjoins a street or alley that contains dedicated land which is not being
utilized by the city, shall be responsible to cut the weeds and tall grass on
said unused dedicated land as if said person owned the land. In other words,
the plats in the city establish that many streets and alleys have been
dedicated to include areas wider than actually used by said city and that, if
there is any grass or weeds growing on the unused portion of said street or
alley, the adjoining or adjacent landowners shall be responsible for cutting
the grass and weeds shall apply therein.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.06) (Ord. 245, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 94.007 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL.
   All sidewalks hereafter built in said city shall be of concrete and in
accordance with the specifications on file with the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.07) (Ord. 245, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 94.008 SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   No sidewalk shall be constructed on any street without being constructed
under the supervision of a City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.08) (Ord. 245, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 94.009 CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)    The related costs of maintenance and restoration of approved haul
roads shall be the contractors’ responsibility. This section applies only to
trucks that operate with a gross weight in excess of 55,000 pounds on non-truck
route streets in the city. Vehicles operating below 55,000 pounds gross weight
shall not be required to operate subject to this section.
   (B)   Any contractors performing jobs within the corporate limits of the
city who haul sand, rock gravel, cement or debris shall, not less than two
weeks prior to hauling, designate to the Public Works Director any city street
that the contractors will utilize in their hauling as a haul road.
   (C)   (1)   Any haul road proposed by the contractor shall be reviewed by
the Public Works Director.
      (2)   If the Public Works Director finds that the haul road is not
adequate for the contractors’ hauling, the Public Works Director may designate
a different haul road for the contractor to use.
   (D)   If the contractor elects to use a different haul road than those
designated by the contractor or the Public Works Director, the contractor shall
secure written approval from the Public Works Director before the haul road is
used.
   (E)   (1)   Before a contractor may use a designated haul road, a joint
inspection of the roads will be made by the contractor and the Public Works
Director.
      (2)   Following the inspection, an agreement shall be executed on a form
provided by the city, signed by the contractor and the city, stating existing
conditions and setting forth any special conditions of restoration of the haul
road.
      (3)   This agreement shall be approved by the Public Works Director prior
to hauling over the haul road.
   (F)   While hauling operations are in progress over the designated haul
road, the contractor shall maintain the haul road in a condition satisfactory
to the Public Works Director.
   (G)   When hauling operations are completed, the contractor shall restore
the haul road to a condition that satisfies the conditions stipulated in the
agreement signed by the city and the contractor. The Public Works Director will
determine the kind and amount of restoration work required on the haul road, if
any.
   (H)   The fact that other traffic has used the haul road concurrently with
the contractor shall not relieve the contractor of any obligation to maintain
and restore the haul road. If other contractors concurrently haul materials
over the same route, the Public Works Director will determine the amount of
maintenance and restoration obligation to be assessed against each contractor
based on the best available objective information.
   (I)   Upon completion of the restoration work on a haul road, a joint
inspection of the haul route will be made by the contractor and the city. If
the restoration is satisfactory, then the city shall execute a haul road
release on a form provided by the city.
   (J)   The Public Works Director may designate the City Engineer or any other
qualified city employee to fulfill any of the Public Works Director’s duties
set forth in this section.
   (K)   Any contractor who hauls without an approval haul road agreement or
who fails to restore the haul road shall be civilly liable to the city, for any
damages done to the haul road.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor to haul qualifying loads
without a haul road agreement, or to fail to designate a haul road or to fail
to restore any damages done to a haul road.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.11) (Ord. 683, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 1063,
passed 10-2-2023)
SNOW REMOVAL AND SNOW ROUTES
§ 94.020 SNOW REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall remove snow from private properties and dump the snow
on a public street, alley, highway or right-of-way within the city.
   (B)   Additionally, no person shall dump snow upon Highway 18 or cause any
other obstructions to be placed upon Highway 18 within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.01) (Ord. 518, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 811,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.021 SNOW AND ICE ACCUMULATION ON DOWNTOWN CITY SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any lot or parcel of
ground fronting or abutting upon any sidewalk in the downtown area, as defined
herein, to permit or allow any accumulation of snow or ice, which obstructs,
impedes or in any manner interferes with the free, unobstructed and safe use of
such sidewalk by pedestrians, to be or to remain upon any sidewalk in the
downtown area along or in front of any lot or parcel of ground owned, occupied
or controlled by said person, for more than 48 hours after the cessation of the
storm during which the same fell.
   (B)   In the event that any person in charge of any lot or parcel of ground
fronting or abutting upon any public sidewalk in the downtown area, fails to
remove the snow and/or ice as set forth in division (A) above, then the city
may remove said snow and/or ice and assess the owner, occupant, agent or person
in charge of said lot or parcel of ground, a removal fee of $40.
   (C)   The DOWNTOWN AREA to which this section applies shall be the area
which includes:
      (1)   Main Street between First Street and Fifth Street;
      (2)   Third Street between Madison Street and Monroe Street;
      (3)   Fourth Street between Madison Street and Monroe Street; and
      (4)   The north side of Fifth Street between Madison Street and Monroe
Street.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.02) (Ord. 310, passed - -; Ord. 518, passed - -; Ord. 620,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 811, passed - -; Ord. 843, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.022 UNLAWFUL PLACEMENT OF SNOW OR ICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any lot or parcel of ground
mentioned in §
94.021 hereof to permit, allow or place any of said snow or ice as mentioned in
§
94.021 on any public street, alley or right-of-way within the corporate limits
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.03) (Ord. 310, passed - -; Ord. 620, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 811, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.023 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   At any time the Street Superintendent finds it necessary for any city
controlled parking lots to be cleaned or to have the snow or ice removed
therefrom, the Street Superintendent shall have signs placed at the entrances
at least six hours before the said parking lots are to be cleaned or to have
snow and ice removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave, allow or let remain
parked any motor vehicle, trailer or other movable property after the city has
caused signs to be placed on said parking lots prohibiting parking during the
stated time on the signs.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.04) (Ord. 310, passed - -; Ord. 333, passed - -; Ord. 518,
passed - -; Ord. 526, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 811, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.024 SNOW PLOWING ALERT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DESIGNATED PARKING AREA. The part of the roadway that is set aside and
marked with white parking stripe or yellow parking stripe for parking.
      SNOW PLOWING ALERT. Such times as there is a snow accumulation on the
public street of any amount such that the Street Superintendent or his or her
designee declares that snow removal operations on the public streets will
commence and that the provisions of this section in regard to parking on public
streets during snow removal operations are effective and will be enforced.
      STREET. The entire width of any public roadway excluding any designated
parking area within the city, and it shall not be limited to those roadways
designated as a street but shall include all other names by which public
roadways are designated.
   (B)   Declaration of snow plowing alert. When the Street Superintendent or
his or her designee determines that snow removal for the public streets will
commence, that person will announce through local news media and whatever other
sources are available that there has been declared a snow removal alert and
that the provisions of this section will be effective and be enforced. The
determination to declare a snow removal alert will be based on the then
existing weather conditions, and the amount of snow then on the ground or
expected according to forecasts from the National Weather Service.
   (C)   Parking during snow plowing alert. Parking on any public street in the
city will be completely prohibited, on both sides and regardless of the
directional run of that street, during the existence of a snow plowing alert.
   (D)   Termination of snow plow alert. After a snow removal alert has been
declared, there will be no declaration of its termination, but the alert shall
terminate and the provisions of the section become not effective nor
enforceable as to any particular street or portion of a street, as soon as that
street or portion thereof has been plowed and cleared of snow accumulation,
curb-to-curb, and the snow removal equipment is no longer in operation in the
area, after which normal parking may be resumed until the next declared snow
plow alert.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.05) (Ord. 333, passed - -; Ord. 570, passed - -; Ord. 573,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 811, passed - -; Ord. 1027, passed 5-2-
2022)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.025 EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DESIGNATED PARKING AREA. The part of the roadway that is set aside and
marked with white parking stripe or yellow parking stripe for parking.
      EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES. In the City of Winner, those routes that are
designated as Emergency Snow Routes, namely: US Highway 18 (2nd Street) from
South County Road to 7th Street, 316th Avenue from the Winner Airport to US
Highway 18, Lamro Street from 2nd Street to 12th Street, Main Street from 2nd
Street to 7th Street, Washington Street from 2nd Street to 6th Street, 6th
Street from Washington Street to Country Club Road, Country Club Road from 6th
Street to 9th Street, 9th Street from Country Club Road to Winner Regional
Hospital, and 7th Street from South County Road to US Highway 18.
      STREET. The entire width of any public roadway excluding any designated
parking area within the city, and it shall not be limited to those roadways
designated as a street but shall include all other names by which public
roadways are designated.
   (B)   When parking is prohibited on emergency snow routes. Whenever there
shall have fallen and accumulated any amount of snow or a combination of snow
and ice, there shall exist a prohibition against parking on any portion of an
emergency snow route until the precipitation has ceased to fall and the roadway
of the emergency snow route has been cleared from curb to curb. The prohibition
against parking set forth in this section is separate from, and is not
dependent upon, a snow plowing alert as provided in § 94.024(B), above.
(Ord. 1027, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 94.026 VEHICLE REMOVAL.
   In addition to any fine or fines provided herein, the city may cause the
removal of any vehicle, trailer or other movable property item parked in
violation of this subchapter any time snow has accumulated on an emergency snow
route or any time a snow plowing alert has been announced and said activity has
commenced. The owner, operator or lessee of said motor vehicle so towed must
pay the towing charges before the vehicle will be released to said owner,
operator or lessee.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.06) (Ord. 518, passed - -; Ord. 526, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 811, passed - -; Ord. 1027, passed 5-2-2022)
SNOW REMOVAL FROM HIGHWAYS
§ 94.040 CITY RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The city is responsible for snow removal from the highway driving
lanes through town.
   (B)   However, when snow is piled near the intersections, it becomes a
safety hazard to the public.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.01) (Ord. 517, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 94.041 HIGHWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   According to SDCL § 31-32-3.1, intentional dumping on highway right-
of-way is prohibited.
   (B)   The state right-of-way on Highway 18 is described as:
      (1)   McDonald’s Restaurant, west to Edwards Oil and Anderson Tire
Company is 12 feet and four inches from back of curb;
      (2)   From west of Edwards Oil to the east side of the bridge is 42 feet
and four inches;
      (3)   At Country Club Motel five feet and four inches from back of curb;
and
      (4)   Beginning at the corner of East 3rd and Highway 18, to East 7th
Street, the right-of-way is 23 feet and four inches from back of curb.
   (C)   Any snow falling on the right-of-way may be pushed into the street.
However, additional snow from other areas, including parking lots, may not be
pushed or piled on any highway right-of-way property.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.02) (Ord. 517, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
94.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 94.055 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person or utility shall obtain an alley/street excavation permit
prior to making, causing or permitting to be made, any excavation in or under
the surface of any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place for the
installation, repair or removal of any pipe, conduit, duct or tunnel, or for
any other purpose.
   (B)   The City Council shall periodically set the required cost of alley/
street excavation permits through the ordinance process.
   (C)   The City Superintendent shall approve all work prior to the issuance
of a permit.
   (D)   The person so applying shall deposit with the City Street Department,
in the form of cash or certified check, an amount of not less than $100 per
excavation.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.01) (Ord. 798, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.056 EXCEPTIONS.
   The responsible party shall obtain a permit on the next working day if an
emergency street cut, opening or excavation is made; however, the city shall be
contacted prior to the commencement of any work to ensure compliance with §
94.058 and the responsible party is responsible for any city overtime expenses.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.02) (Ord. 798, passed - -)
§ 94.057 EXCAVATION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   In making excavations in the streets or highways for the laying of
service pipes or making repairs, the paving or earth must be deposited in a
manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the public, and provide
for the passage of water along gutters.
   (B)   All openings into paved streets and sidewalks shall have saw cut edges
if not at cold joints.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.03) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 798,
passed - -)
§ 94.058 SUPERVISION OF EXCAVATION AND BACKFILL.
   The city shall supervise and direct all excavations and backfills, and to
require that all such excavations, refilling and repairing comply with the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.04)
§ 94.059 EXCAVATION WHEN GROUND IS FROZEN.
   No persons shall make any excavation in any street or highway, within six
feet of any laid water pipe while the ground is frozen, or dig up or uncover so
as to expose the frost any water pipe, except by permission of the City
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.05) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 798,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.060 BACKFILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The permittee shall ensure that the fill is laid in layers of not more
than nine inches in depth, and each layer thoroughly washed in, rammed or
paddled to prevent settlement later.
   (B)   Alleys shall be topped with a 12-inch base course that will be
furnished by the contractor.
   (C)   Streets shall be topped with an approved patch material over a six-
inch base course.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.06) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 798,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.061 BARRICADES AND NIGHT WARNING LIGHTS.
   No person shall leave any excavation made in the street or highway for the
laying of service pipe or any other cause, open at any time without barricades
and during the night warning lights must be maintained at such excavations.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.07) (Ord. 226, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 798,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.062 COMPLETION OF WORK BY CITY.
   If the work is unduly delayed by the permittee, and if the public interests
reasonably so demand, the city shall have authority, upon written notice to the
permittee, to complete the work or any portion thereof. The permittee shall pay
for the actual cost of such work by the city plus 15% as an overhead charge.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.08) (Ord. 798, passed - -)
§ 94.063 RESTORATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall complete the permanent restoration of all improvements
including street surfaces, curb and gutter, and public sidewalk.
   (B)   The permittee shall pay for the restoration of improvements based on
the current city rates plus 15% as an overhead charge.
   (C)   The Council shall determine and establish the rates annually.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.09) (Ord. 798, passed - -)
§ 94.064 REFUND OF DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The deposit so made shall remain with the city for a period of not
less than three or more than six months and any settling of the backfill must
be brought up to grade level by the person to whom the permit was issued when
notified by the Street Commissioner of the city to put in more backfill at the
place of excavation, and at the end of the period, the excavation and backfill
shall be inspected by the Street Commissioner of said city and when approved by
him or her, the deposit so made shall be refunded if said excavation has been
properly filled and packed.
   (B)   Should any person making the excavation or digging upon any street or
alley pursuant to this subchapter fail, neglect or refuse to properly refill
any ditch or excavation made by him or her pursuant to this subchapter when
requested, then, and in the event, it shall be the duty of the Street
Commissioner of the city to cause said excavation to be properly filled and
tamped or properly backfilled and the cost thereof shall be reported to the
Street Commissioner to the City Finance Officer and the amount of the cost
thereof shall be deducted from the amount so deposited herein and that any sum
then remaining in the hands of the city by virtue of said deposit shall then be
refunded to the person that obtained said permit.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.10) (Ord. 478, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
ENCROACHMENTS
§ 94.075 ENCROACHMENTS.
   All encroachments on or above the right-of-way on city streets and highways
by owners or lessees, of abutting property, or by other any individual, for
storage of vehicles, placement of portable or temporary signs, or other private
use thereof shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.01) (Ord. 517, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 750,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.076 SECOND STREET.
   Where Second Street passes through established business districts and the
buildings are at the property line and are continuous or very closely spaced,
encroachments overhanging the right-of-way line will be permitted under the
following conditions:
   (A)   Awnings, canopies, marquees, signs and similar installations supported
wholly from the face of the building shall be permitted to remain in place
until such time that they become functionally or structurally obsolete,
providing that the edge of such encroachment be not less than three feet back
from the back of curb;
   (B)   Advertising or other similar signs which are less than three feet back
from the face of the curb and are supported wholly from the front of the
building shall be permitted to remain in place until such time that they become
functionally or structurally obsolete, providing that the bottom of such
encroachment be not less than 14.5 feet above the top of the curb;
   (C)   The replacement of obsolete signs, or the installation of new awnings,
canopies, advertising signs or similar installations supported wholly from the
building shall be permitted provided that no part of the encroachment is less
than three feet back from the back of the curb and eight feet above the top of
the curb elevation;
   (D)   In the event the encroachments referred to in divisions (A), (B) and
(C) above, by reason of color, shape or placement, obscure in any way, or
detract from the effectiveness of highway and street signs or traffic signals,
the city shall cause the removal of such encroachments or take effective
measures to improve the effectiveness of the highway or street signs or traffic
signals;
   (E)   (1)   Temporary off-site advertising signs or encroachments for
special events may be allowed in street right-of-way, (not to include Second
Street, Highway 18-44), with prior approval of the City Council. Requests shall
be in writing and clearly reflect the size, location and visual appearance of
such signs or encroachments; and
      (2)   All such signs or encroachments are subject to review after
placement, and if it is determined that they interfere with traffic flow or
public safety, shall be removed or made safe immediately.
   (F)   Permits for temporary signs or encroachments are limited to seven days
or less.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.02) (Ord. 517, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 750,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.077 GROUND SUPPORTED ENCROACHMENTS.
   Signs, canopies or other encroachments supported from the ground within the
right-of-way of all streets and highways shall be removed unless they conform
to requirements in §
94.076.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.03) (Ord. 517, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 750,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.078 TEMPORARY USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The use of sidewalks or other areas of the right-of-way for the display or
storage of merchandise shall be prohibited, unless approved prior by the City
Council per §
94.076(E).
(Prior Code, § 8.01.04) (Ord. 517, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 750,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.079 CONTINUATION OF ENCROACHMENT.
   (A)   In cases where there are encroachments of long standing, and in the
opinion of the City Council will in no way impair or interfere with the free
and safe flow of traffic, the immediate removal would impose unreasonable
hardship, the City Council may, at its discretion, permit the encroachment to
remain for a specific period.
   (B)   This permission is subject to revocation or extension if it occurs on
state highways by the State Department of Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.05) (Ord. 517, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 750,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.080 FEDERAL AID PROJECTS.
   On federal aid projects, the permitting of such encroachments as described
in §
94.079 shall be in conformance with 23 C.F.R. § 1.23.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.06) (Ord. 517, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 750,
passed - -)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A contractor who violates the provisions of §
94.009 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 per day. Each day that a contractor is in violation shall be considered a
separate crime.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.11)
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall cause the ticketing of any vehicle, trailer
or moveable property item parked in violation of §
94.024. Issued tickets are subject to a $25 fine payable at the city office.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.05)
   (D)   Anyone who violates §§
94.020 through
94.025 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99. Additionally, anyone who violates §§
94.020 through
94.025 and has a vehicle towed out of the snow route shall be assessed the
towing charge.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.07)
   (E)   To push or pile snow on any highway right-of-way property is a
violation of SDCL § 31-32-3.1 and §
94.041 and is a Class 2 misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8.02.02)
   (F)   Anyone who violates §§
94.055 through
94.064 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.10)
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
94.075 through
94.080, or failing to comply with the provisions thereof, shall be deemed
guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 8.01.07)
(Ord. 333, passed - -; Ord. 517, passed - -; Ord. 570, passed - -; Ord. 542,
passed - -; Ord. 573, passed - -; Ord. 683, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -;
Ord. 750, passed - -; Ord. 791, passed - -; Ord. 798, passed - -; Ord. 811,
passed - -)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
Weeds and Tall Grass
   
95.01   Nuisance declared
   
95.02   Locally noxious weeds
   
95.03   Duty to cut weeds and tall grass
   
95.04   Notice to cut weeds and grass
   
95.05   Weeds and grass may be cut by city
   
95.06   Special assessment for noxious vegetation cutting
   
95.07   Intent of Council
Littering
   
95.20   Littering prohibited
   
95.21   Accumulation of litter on property prohibited
   
95.22   Enforced removal of litter upon conviction of accumulation violation
   
95.23   Injunction against continuing violators
   
95.24   Injunction of violations; citizen’s suits; alternative or in addition
to criminal proceedings
   
95.25   Arrest for violation of municipal litter regulations; notice to appear;
time; refusal to give written promise to appear
   
95.26   Enforcement and prosecution
 
   
95.99   Penalty
WEEDS AND TALL GRASS
§ 95.01 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   All weeds or plants declared to be primary noxious weeds or secondary
noxious weeds by the State Weed Board and all other weeds suffered or allowed
to grow during the growing season and all grass allowed to grow to a length
exceeding six inches shall be deemed noxious, dangerous and unhealthful
vegetation and are hereby declared to be nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 12.03.01) (Ord. 499, passed - -; Ord. 680, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 792, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 LOCALLY NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   Weeds and plants that spread easily onto adjacent properties through
creeping or windborne seeds in addition to state identified noxious weeds shall
be deemed noxious, dangerous and unhealthful vegetation and are hereby declared
to be nuisances. Uncontrolled dandelions or field bindweed (Creeping Jenny) are
examples of locally noxious weeds that shall not be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 12.03.02) (Ord. 792, passed - -; Ord. 982, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 95.03 DUTY TO CUT WEEDS AND TALL GRASS.
   The occupant, person in charge of, or owner of any lot in the city is
responsible to keep the lot free from noxious vegetation spraying with a
generally accepted chemical for weed control and to cut such noxious vegetation
at such time as may be necessary to prevent the growth and to mow all tall
weeds or tall grass. Isolated weed-free large parcels of two and one-half acres
or more, on which no permanent structures or improvements have been erected,
may be mowed once a season, but in all other portions of the city regular
mowing of weeds and grasses must be maintained to prevent growth in excess of
six inches.
(Prior Code, § 12.03.03) (Ord. 499, passed - -; Ord. 680, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 792, passed - -; Ord. 961, passed 8-17-2020)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 NOTICE TO CUT WEEDS AND GRASS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer may at the beginning of or during the
growing season by written notice to each occupant, person in charge, and owner
of any lot, require all weeds and other noxious vegetation as above described
upon any lot to be cut and sprayed within ten days after the giving of such
notice. Such notice shall be given by first class mail or registered or
certified mail to the occupant, person in charge, or owner of any lot at said
person's last known postal address.
   (B)   The occupant, person in charge or owner shall within ten days after
the giving of such notice and at all times subsequent during the growing season
as may be necessary cut and keep sprayed all noxious vegetation and grass
exceeding six inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 12.03.04) (Ord. 499, passed - -; Ord. 680, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 792, passed - -; Ord. 982, passed 1-4-2021; Ord. 1033, passed
8-1-2022)
§ 95.05 WEEDS AND GRASS MAY BE CUT BY CITY.
   (A)    The city may, at the beginning of or during the growing season, by
public notice to each occupant, person in charge or owner of any lot require
all weeds and noxious vegetation upon any lot to be cut for weed control within
ten days after the giving of the notice. The notice need not be given
personally, but may be given generally by one publication in the official
newspaper once in each growing season.
   (B)   The city may make the notification in division (A) above at the
beginning of or during the growing season by written notice in the form of a
postcard to each occupant, person in charge and/or owner of any lot. The notice
may be given once in each growing season.
   (C)   The notice given pursuant to divisions (A) or (B) shall provide:
      (1)   Each occupant, person in charge or owner of any lot shall cut or
spray with a generally accepted chemical for weed control at all times during
the growing season, all weeds and noxious vegetation;
      (2)   Each occupant, person in charge and/or owner of any lot shall mow
any weeds or grasses in excess of six inches tall; and
      (3)   Shall further provide that in case of failure to so cut or spray
the weeds and noxious vegetation, the city will cause the weeds and noxious
vegetation to be cut or sprayed and assess the cost thereof, including the cost
of levying a special assessment, against the property benefitted.
   (D)   If the occupant, person in charge or owner of any lot fails to cut
weeds, noxious vegetation and grass exceeding six inches in length upon any
such lot as required, the Code Enforcement Officer may cause such weeds, grass
and noxious vegetation to be cut, and for such purpose may enter upon any such
lot or parcel of land.
   (E)   The fees assessed for the cutting of such weeds, grass and/or noxious
vegetation shall be set by the Council. The occupant, person in charge or owner
shall be billed accordingly. In the event that the bill is not paid by the end
of the growing season, the charges shall be collected by means of special
assessment.
(Prior Code, § 12.03.05) (Ord. 499, passed - -; Ord. 680, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 792, passed - -; Ord. 982, passed 1-4-2021; Ord. 1033, passed
8-1-2022) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR NOXIOUS VEGETATION CUTTING.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall cause an account to be kept against
each lot of the cost for cutting the noxious vegetation during the growing
season of each year, and the same shall be certified to the City Finance
Officer on or before September 1 of each year.
   (B)   The Finance Officer shall prepare an estimate of the assessment
against each lot for the cutting of noxious vegetation for the preceding
growing season, including therein the expense of levying such special
assessment against each lot. Such estimate shall be submitted to the Council
for its approval on or before the second meeting of September of each year.
   (C)   The Finance Officer shall publish a notice of the time and place of
hearing in the official newspaper not less than ten nor more than 20 days
before the date set for the hearing. The notice shall, in general terms,
describe the reason for which the special assessment is levied, the time and
place of the hearing, and that the roll will be open for public inspection at
the office of the Finance Officer and shall refer to the special assessment
roll for further particulars. In addition to the publication of the notice of
hearing, the Finance Officer shall mail a copy of the notice, by first class or
certified mail, addressed to the owner or owners of any property to be assessed
for the work performed at the address shown by the records of the Director of
Equalization. The mailing may not be less than ten nor more than 20 days before
the date set for the hearing.
   (D)   Upon the day so named the Council shall meet and, if it finds said
estimate correct, it shall approve the same by resolution; or, if not correct,
it shall correct or modify the same and approve the same as modified or
corrected, and file such assessment roll with the Finance Officer.
   (E)   From the date of the approval and filing of such assessment roll with
the Finance Officer, the same shall be and become a special lien against the
various pieces of property described in said assessment roll and shall be
collected in like manner as the law provides for special assessments for public
improvements as are now collected.
(Prior Code, § 12.03.06) (Ord. 499, passed - -; Ord. 680, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 792, passed - -; Ord. 982, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 95.07 INTENT OF COUNCIL.
   It is the intention of the Council to provide a means for the city to cause
lots and parcels of land that contain noxious vegetation as described herein to
be cut at no cost to the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.03.07) (Ord. 499, passed - -; Ord. 680, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 792, passed - -)
LITTERING
§ 95.20 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person may dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or permit
the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of litter
upon any public or private property, unless:
   (A)   The property has been designated by the state or any of its agencies
or political subdivisions, for the disposal of litter, and the litter is
disposed of on that property in accordance with the applicable rules
promulgated pursuant to Chapter 1-26 of the South Dakota Codified Laws by the
Board of Minerals and Environment;
   (B)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended by
the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
   (C)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property
or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession,
or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant
and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public nuisance or a
fire hazard;
   (D)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; or
   (E)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency situation
where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly disposes of
such litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
(SDCL § 34A-7-6) (Prior Code, § 12.05.01) (Ord. 792, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER ON PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements onto the real property of another
person.
(SDCL § 34A-7-9) (Prior Code, § 12.05.02) (Ord. 792, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22 ENFORCED REMOVAL OF LITTER UPON CONVICTION OF ACCUMULATION VIOLATION.
   In addition to any fine imposed under this subchapter, the court may order
that the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly dispose of
the litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal and disposal,
and may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the person so
convicted.
(SDCL § 34A-7-10) (Prior Code, § 12.05.03) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 95.23 INJUNCTION AGAINST CONTINUING VIOLATORS.
   The City Attorney may file for an injunction against continuing violators of
this subchapter.
(SDCL § 34A-7-11) (Prior Code, § 12.05.04) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 95.24 INJUNCTION OF VIOLATIONS; CITIZEN’S SUITS; ALTERNATIVE OR IN ADDITION
TO CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS.
   Any person violating the provisions of this subchapter may be enjoined from
further violations in the circuit courts of this state. Such suits may be
brought by any citizen of the state. An action for injunction shall be an
alternative to, or in addition to, criminal proceedings.
(SDCL § 34A-7-12) (Prior Code, § 12.05.05) (Ord. 792, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
95.99
§ 95.25 ARREST FOR VIOLATION OF MUNICIPAL LITTER REGULATIONS; NOTICE TO APPEAR;
TIME; REFUSAL TO GIVE WRITTEN PROMISE TO APPEAR.
   Except as otherwise provided, whenever any person is arrested for a
violation of any municipal ordinance adopted pursuant to this subchapter, the
arresting law enforcement officer or other municipal enforcement officer shall
take the name and address of such person and issue a complaint or otherwise
notify him or her in writing to appear at a time and place to be specified in
such complaint or notice, such time to be at least five days after such arrest
unless the person arrested shall demand an earlier hearing. Such officer shall
thereupon and upon the giving by such person of his or her written promise to
appear at such time and place forthwith, release him or her from custody. Any
person refusing to give such written promise to appear may be prosecuted as in
the manner of other violations of city ordinances.
(SDCL § 34A-7-15) (Prior Code, § 12.05.06) (Ord. 792, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
95.99
§ 95.26 ENFORCEMENT AND PROSECUTION.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by all law enforcement officers.
Prosecutions for violation of this subchapter shall be conducted by the City
Attorney.
(SDCL § 34A-7-16) (Prior Code, § 12.05.07) (Ord. 792, passed - -) Penalty, see
§
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §
95.20 is a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(SDCL § 34A-7-6) (Prior Code, § 12.05.01)
   (C)   A violation of §
95.21 is a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(SDCL § 34A-7-9) (Prior Code, § 12.05.02)
   (D)   In addition to the penalties provided, any violation of §
95.20 that involves littering with an aggregate weight of more than five pounds
is punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000, of which 20% shall be paid to any
person who provides information that leads to the conviction of any person for
an offense that is subject to the provisions of this section. In addition, the
court shall order the person who has been convicted to gather and dispose of
litter in the area for a length of time to be determined by the court.
(SDCL § 34A-7-17) (Prior Code, § 12.05.08)
(Ord. 792, passed - -)
CHAPTER 96: TREES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Tree Committee
   
96.03   Planting
   
96.04   Spacing
   
96.05   Distance from curb to sidewalk
   
96.06   Distance from street corners and fire plugs
   
96.07   Utilities
   
96.08   Tree care
   
96.09   Clearance
   
96.10   Tree topping
   
96.11   Tree removal
   
96.12   Removal of stumps
   
96.13   Abatement
   
96.14   Interference with city
   
96.15   Review by Tree Committee
   
96.16   Review by City Council
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The elected and/or designated official, authorized agent or employees
of the City of Winner lying within the County of Tripp, State of South Dakota,
assigned to carry out the enforcement of this chapter.
   LARGE TREES. Trees larger than 40 feet tall at maturity.
   MEDIUM TREES. Trees between 20 and 40 feet tall at maturity.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs and all other woody vegetation in public parks
having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has access as a park.
   PARKS. Includes all public parks having individual names.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization or political subdivision of any kind.
   PESTS. An insect or disease that attacks a tree or woody vegetation.
   PLANTS. Includes all nonwoody vegetation now or hereafter growing on any
public or private property.
   PRIVATE TREES. Those trees and all other woody vegetation on private lots
and residences within the city.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person owning such property as shown by the records on
file at the county offices.
   PUBLIC PLACES. Includes all other grounds, owned by the City of Winner,
lying within the County of Tripp, State of South Dakota, or under its control
or supervision whether owned, leased or under contract of the city.
   PUBLIC TREES. Includes all trees now or hereafter growing on any street or
any public areas where otherwise indicated.
   SMALL TREES. Trees less than 20 feet tall at maturity.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs and all other woody vegetation on boulevards
which would be on land lying between the established curbline and the street
right-of-way line within the city.
   TREE COMMITTEE. The Parks and Recreation Committee will be the advisory
board that is responsible for assisting in the study of trees.
   TREES AND SHRUBS. Includes all woody vegetation now or hereafter growing on
any public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.01) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.02 TREE COMMITTEE.
   The Parks and Recreation Committee will assume the responsibilities as the
Tree Committee. The Committee shall consider, investigate, make findings,
report and recommend upon any special matter of question coming within the
scope of its work.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.02) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.03 PLANTING.
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to the planting of
grass, annual flowers or similar nonwoody vegetation.
   (B)   The city is herein responsible for tree planting in all city parks and
established control of street tree planting on boulevards. Private planting of
trees is not subject to city control, but the city encourages desirable species
and planting practices.
   (C)   No person shall plant or set out any tree or plant on a boulevard or
in a public place without first consulting the city. Failure to consult with
the city may result with the removal of unsuitable species.
   (D)   The city will issue a desirable species list for tree planting in the
city. The list will contain a minimum of ten species in order to provide a
diversity of tree types.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.03) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.04 SPACING.
   (A)   The spacing for all street tree plantings will be done in accordance
with the species size classes listed in the desirable species list for tree
planting within the city as follows.
   (B)   Except in special plantings designed or approved by the city, no
street trees may be planted closer together than the following:
      (1)   Small trees: 20 feet;
      (2)   Medium trees: 30 feet; and
      (3)   Large trees: 40 feet.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.04) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.05 DISTANCE FROM CURB TO SIDEWALK.
   No tree shall be planted where the distance between the curb and sidewalk is
less than four feet.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.05) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.06 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE PLUGS.
   (A)   Street trees near street intersections shall be planted in accordance
with §
150.003(F) of this code or ordinances.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet to any fire
hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.06) (Ord. 792, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.07 UTILITIES.
   No street trees, except small trees, may be planted under or within ten feet
of overhead utility wires. No trees shall be planted over or within five feet
of any underground water, sewer or other service lines.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.07) (Ord. 792, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.08 TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city will be responsible for all tree care aspects of park trees
and will accomplish insect and disease control for street trees when determined
by the city that a pest is a serious threat to other trees and for which there
is an adequate control measure.
   (B)   For any trees, shrubs now situated on, or hereafter planted in the
public right-of-way, it shall be the duty of the abutting property owner to
maintain trees in a safe and healthy condition and in every way in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. Further, it shall be the duty of each
property owner to maintain all trees on his or her property in a healthy and
safe condition. If the property owner fails to so maintain the trees, the city,
after 30 days’ written notice to maintain the tree, or trees, may perform the
required maintenance or removal and charge the costs of the same to the
property owner for collection in the same manner as other special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.08) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.09 CLEARANCE.
   Any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city shall have
the branches trimmed so that such branches shall not block or otherwise inhibit
street and sidewalk traffic and signs controlling traffic. All established
trees shall be trimmed in such a manner to allow ten feet clearance over
sidewalks and 13 feet six inch clearance over all streets; however, trees along
arterials shall be trimmed to allow clearance of at least 16 feet. The city
shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property that
obstructs the view of any street intersection, street lighting, visibility of
any traffic-control device or sign, or interferes with the delivery of
electrical services by overhead power lines or causes danger to public or
private property through transmission of electric power by overhead
distribution lines. As authorized by state law, the city’s Electric Department
may remove or alter any tree or other vegetation that is growing in such a
location that it impedes or interferes with the safe repair, operation or
maintenance of the city’s electric transmission or distribution lines.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.09) (Ord. 792, passed - -; Ord. 870, passed - -)
§ 96.10 TREE TOPPING.
   Tree topping shall be prohibited as a normal practice for any person, firm
or city department of any street tree, park tree or other tree on public
property. Topping is the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this section at the
determination of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.10) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.11 TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Dead, hazardous or diseased tree removal will be the responsibility of
the city for park and street trees. For removal of street trees, whether they
are dead, hazardous, or diseased, or not dead, hazardous or diseased,
permission must first be obtained from the city. The city shall have the right
to cause the removal of any dead or diseased private trees on private property
within the city. The landowner will be responsible for removing private trees
that constitute a hazard to life and property or harbor insects or disease that
constitute a potential threat to other trees within the city. The city will
notify in writing the owners of such trees. The owners at their own expense
shall do removal within 30 days after the date of service of notice. In the
event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have
the authority to remove such trees and assess the cost of removal to the
property owner in the same manner as other special assessments. Dead trees
shall be removed. The city or its authorized agents will remove trees if they
determine they cannot return them to an acceptable condition. Trees harboring
contagious pests for which there is no established control shall be removed.
   (B)   Determination of a pest problem will be made by the city or authority
acting for them. If the pest cannot be determined at the site with reasonable
certainty by the city or other authority, samples may be taken for diagnosis to
determine the pest.
   (C)   Wood from dead, substantially dead or infected trees may be used as
firewood as long as that wood does not harbor a contagious pest or can be
treated to prevent harboring contagious pests.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.11) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.12 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   (A)   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface
of the ground so that the tops of the stump shall not project above the surface
of the ground.
   (B)   The city shall only be responsible for the removal of those stumps of
trees the city cuts down.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.12) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.13 ABATEMENT.
   The failure of owners to comply with planting, spacing, minimum distance,
utilities, trimming and tree removal provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a nuisance; and the city shall have the authority to abate the
nuisance and assess the cost associated with the abatement to the property
owner by special assessment.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.13) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.14 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city while engaging in the inspection or removal of any street trees, park
trees or private trees, as authorized in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.14) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.15 REVIEW BY TREE COMMITTEE.
   Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the city, to the Tree
Committee, who may hear the matter.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.15) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 96.16 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the City Tree Committee. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the City Tree Committee to the City Council, which may hear the matter
and make final decision.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.16) (Ord. 792, passed - -)
CHAPTER 97: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
   
97.01   COVID-19 disease
   
97.02   Right to peaceably assemble; reasonable restrictions
§ 97.01 COVID-19 DISEASE.
   (A)   Effective at 12:01 a.m. on Wednesday, April 1, 2020, all restaurants,
coffee houses, bars, breweries, dance clubs, cafes, and other similar places of
public accommodation offering food and beverages for on-site consumption,
including any alcohol licensees with on-sale privileges, are closed to on-site/
on-sale patrons. These businesses may continue to operate in order to provide
take-out, delivery, curbside service and drive-thru service. Any business
continuing to operate in order to provide off-site service should implement
procedures to ensure social distancing and operate in compliance with federal
and state health guidance in order to prevent the spread of the virus causing
the COVID-19 disease. The list of the types of businesses closed by this
provision may be increased by resolution of the City Council. This closure will
remain in effect through Monday, April 20, 2020.
   (B)   Effective at 12:01 a.m. on Wednesday, April 1, 2020, all recreational
facilities, including city-owned parks, pools, health and fitness facilities
and clubs, social clubs, fraternal organizations, athletic and weight training
facilities, movie and live production theaters, event centers, meeting halls,
and music and entertainment venues are directed to close and cease operations.
The list of the types of businesses closed by this provision may be increased
by resolution of the City Council. This closure will remain in effect through
Monday, April 20, 2020.
   (C)   Effective at 12:01 a.m. on Wednesday, April 1, 2020, all pool halls,
video game arcades, video lottery casino operations, bowling alleys, ice
skating rinks, and other similar recreational or entertainment facilities are
directed to close and cease operations. The list of the types of businesses
closed by this provision may be increased by resolution of the City Council.
This closure will remain in effect through Monday, April 20, 2020.
   (D)   The prohibitions and closures in this order do not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Places of public accommodation that offer food and beverages for
off-site consumption, including grocery stores, markets, retail stores that
offer food, convenience stores, pharmacies, drug stores, and food pantries,
other than any portion of such business which would be subject to the
requirements of division (A) of this section;
      (2)   Room service in hotels;
      (3)   Health care facilities, residential care facilities, congregate
care facilities, senior living facilities and correctional facilities;
      (4)   Crisis shelters, homeless shelters, churches, soup kitchens or
other similar institutions;
      (5)   Any emergency facility necessary for the response to the current
public health emergency or any other community emergency or disaster; and
      (6)   Any other business type or service established by resolution of the
City Council.
   (E)   If the city makes a finding of necessity after conferring with local
and regional health and safety officials, it may pass a resolution limiting the
size of any communal gathering as defined herein and prohibit any communal
gathering in excess thereof for a period of time set forth in such resolution
not to exceed the period of time this section remains in effect, which
prohibition shall be governed by the following terms:
      (1)   For purposes of this section, a “communal gathering” is any indoor
or outdoor gathering of people, subject to the exceptions and clarifications
below, that brings together or is likely to bring ten or more persons at the
same time in a single room or other single confined or enclosed space,
including, but not limited to an office space or similar confined place of
employment, a single-family residence, or a residential apartment unit.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a “communal gathering” does not
include larger gatherings in the following locations, so long as people take
care not to be within six feet of one another for extended periods:
         (a)   Public parks, sidewalks and streets;
         (b)   Parking lots and common areas of any hotel, office building or
residential apartment buildings;
         (c)   Grocery stores, or other retail or business establishments where
larger numbers of people may be present, but where it is unusual for people to
be within six feet of one another for extended periods;
         (d)   Hospitals, mental health or substance abuse treatment
facilities, and medical clinics and facilities; and
         (e)   Any other location established by resolution of the City
Council.
      (3)   A resolution limiting the size of a communal gathering passed by
the City Council in accordance with this section shall be deemed effective
immediately upon its publication.
      (4)   Each person participating in any communal gathering that violates a
size restriction established by resolution of the City Council in accordance
with this section shall be deemed to be in violation of this section.
   (F)   If the city makes a finding of necessity after conferring with local
and regional health and safety officials, it may pass a resolution requiring
that all non-essential businesses within the city must close in-office or on-
site personnel functions and cease all in-person customer contact for a period
of time set forth in such resolution not to exceed the period of time this
section remains in effect, which prohibition shall be governed by the following
terms:
      (1)   For purposes of this section, an “essential business” is not
governed or limited by this restriction. An “essential business” means:
         (a)   Essential health care operations, including, research and
laboratory services, hospitals, walk-in-care health facilities, veterinary and
livestock services, elder care, medical equipment supply providers and
distribution, home health care workers or aides for the elderly, physicians,
emergency dental, nursing homes, or residential health care facilities or
congregate care facilities;
         (b)   Essential infrastructure, including all utility providers, fuel
supply and transmission, public water and wastewater, solid waste transfer
station, telecommunications facilities and data centers, airports,
transportation infrastructure such as bus or for-hire vehicles, garages,
hotels, and places of accommodation;
         (c)   Manufacturing;
         (d)   Essential retail, including grocery stores, pharmacies,
convenience stores, gas stations, take-out/delivery restaurant service, farm
and ranch supply, hardware and building material stores;
         (e)   Essential services, including solid waste and recycling
collection, processing and disposal, mail and shipping services, laundromats,
building cleaning and maintenance, child care services, auto repair, warehouse/
distribution and fulfillment, funeral homes, crematoriums and cemeteries,
storage for essential businesses, animal shelters, and information technology
(IT) services providing support to essential business;
         (f)   News media;
         (g)   Financial institutions, including banks, insurance agencies,
brokerage firms, payroll and bookkeeping services, tax preparation and
accounting services, and services related to financial markets;
         (h)   Providers of basic necessities to economically disadvantaged
populations, including homeless shelters, crisis shelters, congregate care
facilities, food banks, human services providers whose function includes the
direct care of patients in state-licensed or funded voluntary programs; the
care, protection, custody and oversight of individuals both in the community
and in state-licensed residential facilities; and other critical human services
agencies providing direct care or support;
         (i)   Construction, including skilled trades such as electricians,
plumbers, other related construction firms and professionals for essential
infrastructure or for emergency repair and safety purposes;
         (j)   Federal, state, or county agencies under direct control of any
branch of the United States federal government, or of the state or of the
county;
         (k)   Essential services necessary to maintain the safety, sanitation
and essential operations of residences or other essential businesses, including
law enforcement, fire prevention and response, building code enforcement,
security, emergency management and response, building cleaners or janitors,
general maintenance whether employed by the entity directly or as a vendor,
automotive repair, or disinfection; and
         (l)   An “essential business” shall also specifically include or
exclude any business or organization type as clarified by resolution of the
City Council, even if the business or organization type is identified herein.
      (2)   A resolution requiring that all non-essential businesses close in-
office or on-site personnel functions and cease all in-person customer contact
passed by the City Council in accordance with this section shall be deemed
effective immediately upon its publication.
      (3)   The owner and supervising manager of any non-essential businesses
that refuses to close in-office or on-site personnel functions or to cease all
in-person customer contact contrary to the provisions of this section shall be
deemed to be in violation of this section.
   (G)   This section shall remain in effect until Friday, December 31, 2021,
at which time it shall be automatically repealed without further action of the
Winner City Council unless specifically readopted for an additional period of
time by the Winner City Council. Any dates identified for closures to
automatically end may be extended within the period covered by this section by
a resolution of the Winner City Council.
(Ord. 946, passed 3-25-2020; Ord. 953, passed 6-1-2020; Ord. 979, passed 12-30-
2020) Penalty, see §  
10.99
§ 97.02 RIGHT TO PEACEABLY ASSEMBLE; REASONABLE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)    The City of Winner recognizes, supports and protects the right of the
people to peaceably assemble in order to communicate their grievances and to
petition for redress. This is a cornerstone of the First Amendment and is to be
upheld at all times. Still, it is necessary that reasonable, narrowly-tailored
restrictions be enacted in order to protect the peace and safety of the public
while ensuring that the right of peaceable assembly is also protected.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all gatherings of persons who seek to
assemble together for any lawful purpose, to include the purpose of expressing
their public views on any topic of their choosing, within the City of Winner.
   (C)   Voluntary notification. Any person organizing or participating in such
a gathering is requested, but is not required, to notify the Public Safety
Commissioner or Chief of Police prior to commencing the activity, advising of
the location where they wish to assemble, any movement of the assembly that
they anticipate including what route(s) they expect to follow, the person(s)
who are organizing the gathering, and the approximate number of participants
they anticipate. This prior notice will permit the Winner Police Department to
provide reasonable assistance in protecting the safety and security of all
protesters and the public.
   (D)   Location; movement. The gathering of persons and any movements of the
gathering shall take place on public property and public rights-of-way, and may
not impede or interfere with traffic and pedestrian movement. Open areas of
city parks may also be utilized so long as the gathering does not interfere
with the use of the parks by others. Private property may not be utilized
except with the permission of the property owner or the person in charge of the
property. Such gatherings shall not be permitted within the Winner City
Cemetery during any official funeral or burial ceremony, in order to protect
the peace and solemnity of the cemetery and those using it.
   (E)   Disorderly assemblies.
      (1)   Definition. For purposes of this section, a DISORDERLY ASSEMBLY
shall mean an assembly of two or more persons who are engaged in conduct which
threatens the public peace or safety through fighting or violent or threatening
behavior, threatening language, obstructing vehicular or pedestrian traffic,
blocking or impeding entrances to buildings or parking areas, or by littering
or causing damage to public or private property.
      (2)   Prohibited. A disorderly assembly of persons is hereby prohibited
and the Police Department or any law enforcement officer shall have the
authority to disperse those persons and to require them to remove themselves
from the place of assembly. Any person participating in a disorderly assembly
who fails or refuses to disperse or vacate such place after having been
lawfully commanded to do so by a law enforcement officer shall be guilty of
disorderly assembly.
      (3)   Any person who is present but who is not engaged in conduct
prohibited by this section is not in violation hereof.
      (4)   Penalty. Disorderly assembly is a Class 2 misdemeanor and shall be
subject to punishment pursuant to §
10.99.
      (5)   Non-exclusivity. This section shall be supplemental to, and not
exclusive of, all other provisions of law regulating a person's conduct.
(Ord. 958, passed 7-6-2020; Ord. 1021, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PAWN DEALERS
      
112.   JUNK DEALERS AND JUNK YARDS
      
113.   TAXI CABS
      
114.   DIGGING
      
115.   TATTOOS AND BODY PIERCINGS
      
116.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
      
117.   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Construction and definition of terms
   
110.02   Required license
   
110.03   Number of licenses
   
110.04   Classifications and fees
   
110.05   License removal
   
110.06   Refilling container
   
110.07   Empty bottles or containers
   
110.08   No deliveries of liquor
   
110.09   Possession in a public place
   
110.10   Payment of tax
   
110.11   Selling hours
   
110.12   Selling liquor on Sundays
   
110.13   Beer garden
   
110.14   Entertainment
   
110.15   Age to enter onto premises
   
110.16   Intoxicated person entering premises
   
110.17   Original packages
   
110.18   Off-sale sales
   
110.19   Sunday off-sale
   
110.20   On-sale sales
   
110.21   Central Standard Time and Central Daylight Savings
   
110.22   Unsealed container
   
110.23   Possession of open bottle or can
   
110.24   Sidewalk sale and service of alcoholic beverages
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, all of the terms used herein are defined
as they are defined in SDCL Title 35.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.01) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 110.02 REQUIRED LICENSE.
   No person shall engage in business as a distiller, wholesaler, package
dealer, a club, dining car company, a transportation company or solicitor of
intoxicating liquor until he or she shall have procured a license covering the
class of business operation to be engaged in by him or her within the city,
except as provided by law. The sales tax license and an alcohol license must be
in the same name.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.02) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 952,
passed 5-18-2020) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   There shall be issued within the municipality, not to exceed, seven on-sale
and four off-sale licenses. All club licenses shall be counted as on-sale
licenses for purposes of limitation of the number of licenses.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.03) (Ord. 412, passed - -; Ord. 491, passed - -; Ord. 698,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 919, passed 2-4-2019; Ord. 952, passed
5-18-2020)
§ 110.04 CLASSIFICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Each license application shall be accompanied by the required fee upon
submission.
   (B)   Special licenses pursuant to division (F) of this section may be
issued.
   (C)   The transfer fee of a license from one name to another shall be $150.
   (D)   The following licenses and fees are established for sale, production,
transportation, or storing alcoholic beverages in the city:
      (1)   Off-sale liquor license.
         (a)   Initial fee for the sale of alcoholic beverages, other than malt
beverages, shall be $400.
         (b)   The off-sale yearly license fee for the sale of alcoholic
beverages, other than malt beverages, shall be $400.
      (2)   On-off sale malt beverage and South Dakota wine. Both the initial
fee and renewal fee shall be $300 per year.
      (3)   On-off sale wine and cider license. Both the initial fee and
renewal fee shall be $500 per year.
      (4)   On-sale liquor license.
         (a)   City Council shall set the fee for the license by resolution
with the minimum established as not less than $1 for each person residing
within the city as measured by the last preceding federal census.
         (b)   The on-sale yearly license fee for private club and public
facilities shall be $1,000.
      (5)   On-premise full-service restaurant license.
         (a)   City Council shall set the fee for the license by resolution
with the minimum established as not less than $1 for each person residing
within the city as measured by the last preceding federal census.
         (b)   An applicant for the license shall provide documentation to the
Finance Officer that the applicant meets all state law requirements.
         (c)   As part of an initial application for this license, an applicant
must provide documentation to the Finance Officer to provide proof that the
primary source of revenue of the restaurant will be derived from the sale of
prepared food and nonalcoholic beverages and not from the sale of alcoholic
beverages. The Finance Officer shall keep the documentation confidential.
         (d)   Before a renewal of the license can occur, the licensee must
submit a report to the Finance Officer verifying under oath that at least 60%
of gross operating revenue generated over the preceding 12-month period was
derived from the sale of food and nonalcoholic beverages. The report must
contain the annual gross revenue of food and nonalcoholic beverages and total
gross revenues. The Finance Officer shall keep the documentation confidential.
         (e)   The renewal fee for this license shall be $1,000 per year.
      (6)   Special licenses.
         (a)   A temporary malt beverage and South Dakota farm wine license
shall be $30 per day for such period of time as authorized by the City Council
not to exceed 15 consecutive days.
         (b)   Non-profit on-sale consumption pursuant to SDCL § 35-4-125:
there is no fee to this license.
         (c)   Pursuant to resolution, special on-sale license shall be $100
per year.
      (7)   Off-sale delivery license. Both the initial fee and renewal fee
shall be $150 per year.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.04) (Ord. 411, passed - -; Ord. 412, passed - -; Ord. 451,
passed - -; Ord. 491, passed - -; Ord. 698, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -;
Ord. 933, passed 9-3-2019; Ord. 952, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 110.05 LICENSE REMOVAL.
   No licenses under any class shall remove from one location to another within
the corporate limits of the city in which the license was originally issued
without permission of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.06) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.06 REFILLING CONTAINER.
   It shall be unlawful, within the city, to refill any container of
intoxicating liquor.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.07) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.07 EMPTY BOTTLES OR CONTAINERS.
   No person shall be permitted, within the city, to buy or sell any empty
bottles or containers of intoxicating liquor.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.08) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.08 NO DELIVERIES OF LIQUOR.
   No package dealer, as defined by law, shall be permitted, within the city,
to make any deliveries of intoxicating liquor outside of his or her place of
business.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.09) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.09 POSSESSION IN A PUBLIC PLACE.
   No person shall be permitted to have an unsealed original package in his or
her possession in a public place within the city; provided, however, that this
shall not apply to an on-sale dealer who shall have unsealed packages with
proper stamps on his or her premises from which to serve his or her customers;
and provided, further, that for the purpose of this provision a hospital or
sanitarium shall not be considered to be a public place and patients in said
hospital or sanitarium may have unsealed original packages.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.10) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.10 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   No person shall have in his or her possession in the city any intoxicating
liquor on which the tax has not been paid nor without having the same in a
container upon which the stamps evidencing the payment of the tax as
hereinbefore provided are securely affixed. This section shall not apply to
intoxicating liquor in the possession of a Class A or Class B license, or to
intoxicating liquor which has been sold by a Class A licensee for export in
interstate commerce outside of this state and which intoxicating liquor is in
the course of transit out of this state.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.11) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.11 SELLING HOURS.
   No licensee of any class within the city shall sell any intoxicating liquor
outside of the hours in which his or her license permits him or her to sell.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.12) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.12 SELLING LIQUOR ON SUNDAYS.
   The Council shall permit in any on-sale license the right to sell, serve or
allow to be consumed alcoholic beverages on Sunday except between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. This applies to sales on New Year’s Day and Christmas
Day, if a licensee so chooses.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.13) (Ord. 456, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 887,
passed - -; Ord. 933, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 110.13 BEER GARDEN.
   (A)   A BEER GARDEN is defined for purposes of this chapter as an area
adjacent to an establishment which has been issued an on-sale beer or liquor
license where patrons of said establishment may consume alcoholic beverages
sold by the establishment in an area outside of the establishment but adjacent
thereto. For purposes of this section, an “establishment” is the legal
description of the liquor license.
   (B)   Any on-sale liquor or beer licensee may operate a beer garden so long
as the beer garden is adjacent and connecting to the licensed establishment and
the only entry into the beer garden is from an entry way into the licensed
establishment. Any beer garden shall have a fence at least six feet high around
the beer garden constructed in such a way that no person may crawl through or
under said fence. Further, if there are any outside bands, jukeboxes or loud
speakers in a beer garden, the same shall cease playing or operating at 1:00
a.m.
   (C)   The fence to be constructed around the beer garden as set out above,
shall, in all respects comply with zoning regulations and any ordinances
amendatory thereto insofar as the location of said fences in regards to the
proximity of streets, alleys and property lines or boundaries.
   (D)   Any on-sale liquor or beer establishment who operates a beer garden
shall have located within said establishment a telephone that will accept
incoming and outgoing calls.
   (E)   Any licensee operating a beer garden shall abide by all rules and
regulations as set out by state or local statutes involving the sale of said
alcoholic beverages.
   (F)   The only alcoholic beverages to be consumed within the premises
defined as a beer garden shall be those alcoholic beverages sold by the
licensed establishment operating the beer garden.
   (G)   Upon approval of Council, non-profits may contract with a licensed
establishment for the purposes of establishing a temporary beer garden event if
all of the following are met:
      (1)   The non-profit will obtain and show proof of liability insurance
for the event;
      (2)   As the entity requesting the event, the non-profit will pay a
special event permit of $25 per event;
      (3)   The event shall last no later than 10:00 p.m.;
      (4)   The event shall have a defined perimeter around the beer garden
with limited entrances;
      (5)   The non-profit shall provide wristbands for any person over 21
years of age for alcohol consumption;
      (6)   The non-profit shall prominently display notice of open container
laws; and
      (7)   Notice will be given at least 48 hours in advance to all business
potentially impacted by the event.
   (H)   At least one month prior to an event where the special use permit will
be requested, the non- profit must present their plans regarding the event to
the Council. As part of the presentation, the non- profit shall provide Council
with a visual aid of the event, which will include the location of barriers.
   (I)   This section and the special use permit shall only be authorized for
registered non-profit organizations. This section does not apply in the event
of a request of a liquor license transfer.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.15) (Ord. 638, passed - -; Ord. 641, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 952, passed 5-18-2020; Ord. 994, passed 2-15-2021) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.14 ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the City of Winner by furthering the
government's interest in avoiding the harmful secondary effects of this
activity such as prostitution, sexual assaults, criminal activity, degradation
of women, and other activities that break down family structure. It is not the
purpose of this section to suppress expression that is protected by the First
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States or by Article 6, Section 5
of the Constitution of the State of South Dakota.
   (B)   STATE OF NUDITY in this section means the showing of the human male or
female genitals or pubic area with less than fully opaque material covering;
body paint or similar self-adhering substance, by itself, shall not be
sufficient to comply with this provision.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for:
      (1)   Any person on premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic
beverages, while in the presence of any other person, to appear in a state of
nudity as defined herein.
      (2)   A licensee in alcoholic beverages, its manager or agent to
authorize, permit, or suffer any person on the licensed premises to violate the
provisions of division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   There shall be no physical contact, such as kissing, fondling, or
embracing between performers and patrons for gratuity, pay or other
remuneration, direct or indirect, or in conjunction with or as part of any
performance or entertainment in premises licensed by the governing body of the
city for consumption of liquor, including beer, on such premises.
   (E)   Any person upon whom a duty is placed by the provisions of this
section, who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to perform such duty, or who shall
knowingly violate any provision hereof, shall be deemed guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor. Each day that a violation of this section continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable as such.
   (F)   At any time when entertainment as described in this section is
presented, the licensee's windows shall be covered by glazing, shades,
curtains, or other material sufficient to prevent persons outside the
establishment from being able to observe the performer and/or the performance.
   (G)   The violation of any of the provisions of this section in connection
with the operation of the licensed business by the licensee or by any employees
or agents of the licensee, shall be sufficient to cause the revocation or
suspension of the license of such licensee by the City Council. Such revocation
or suspension shall be cumulative with the addition to any penalty or fine
imposed by the code of the city.
   (H)   Any employee and/or independent contractor of a business licensed for
the sale of alcohol shall be at least 21 years of age and shall possess proper
identification and proof of age and shall display the identification to
appropriate officials upon request.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.16) (Ord. 688, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 746,
passed - -; Ord. 952, passed 5-18-2020; Ord. 994, passed 2-15-2021) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.15 AGE TO ENTER ONTO PREMISES.
   No on-sale licensee of any class within the city shall permit any person
under the age of 21 years within said licensee’s building or premises except
where said person under the age of 21 years is in the company of his or her
parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.17) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.16 INTOXICATED PERSON ENTERING PREMISES.
   No licensee of any class within the city shall permit any intoxicated person
to enter his or her premises or to become intoxicated thereon or therein.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.18) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.17 ORIGINAL PACKAGES.
   No person within the city shall buy from any on-sale dealer any intoxicating
liquor in any original package whether the said original package be sealed or
unsealed, or whether said original package be full or partially full.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.19) (Ord. 167, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.18 OFF-SALE SALES.
   No package or off-sale licensee within the city shall sell or allow to be
sold alcoholic beverages between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sales may
occur any day of the year including New Year’s Day, Memorial Day and Christmas
Day if the licensee so chooses.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.20) (Ord. 459, passed - -; Ord. 598, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 933, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.19 SUNDAY OFF-SALE.
   The city hereby permits the sale of alcoholic beverages by off-sale
licensees on Sundays. No sales of alcoholic beverages by off-sale licensees may
be made on Sundays between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the
following day.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.21) (Ord. 656, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 933,
passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.20 ON-SALE SALES.
   (A)   No on-sale licensee within the city shall sell, serve or allow to be
consumed on the premises covered by the license, alcoholic beverages between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. It shall be unlawful for any licensee,
employee, agent or servant of an on-sale liquor establishment whose principal
business is the sale of alcoholic beverages to allow any patron or customer to
remain on the premises after the above designated closing time.
   (B)   Any on-sale licensee within the city shall sell, serve or allow to be
consumed on the premises covered by the license, alcoholic beverages any day of
the year including New Year’s Day, Memorial Day and Christmas Day if the
licensee so chooses.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.22) (Ord. 459, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 933,
passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 CENTRAL STANDARD TIME AND CENTRAL DAYLIGHT SAVINGS.
   All times for opening and closing hours prescribed in §§
110.12,
110.14,
110.19,
110.20 and
110.21 shall be Central Standard Time or Central Standard Daylight Savings time
when such time is in effect in the local community.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.23) (Ord. 461, , passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 110.22 UNSEALED CONTAINER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess an alcoholic beverage
in an unsealed container or in an open receptacle either within or without a
motor vehicle on any sidewalk, street, alley or highway within the city limits.
   (B)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   In or upon described property which is publicly owned, or owned by
a non-profit corporation, when the City Council has granted approval, pursuant
to SDCL § 35-1-5.5, for persons to consume, blend or provide alcoholic
beverages, but not to engage in the sale thereof, for a period not to exceed 24
hours, at an approved function. No such permit shall be issued to any private
party. Only those applications submitted by a non-profit corporation will be
considered;
      (2)   In or upon described property which is publicly owned, or owned by
a non-profit corporation, when the City Council has issued a special alcoholic
beverage license in conjunction with a special event within the city to any
civic, charitable, educational, fraternal or veterans organization, pursuant to
SDCL § 35-4-124, for such period of time as authorized by the City Council not
to exceed 15 consecutive days;
      (3)   A license holder that is licensed to sell wine on-sale may permit a
customer to carry out the portion of a bottle of wine, if the customer
purchased the bottle of wine from the license holder and consumed a portion of
it with a meal that was prepared and served by the license holder at a table on
the licensed premises. The license holder shall securely reseal the bottle of
wine with a cork or other similar cap and place the bottle in a sealed bag or
other container. A bottle of wine that is recorked and sealed as provided in
this subsection is not a violation of this section, so long as the cork and
seal have not been disturbed; and
      (4)   A license holder that is licensed to sell wine on-sale may permit a
customer to bring a sealed and unopened bottle of wine onto the licensed
premises for consumption by the customer while eating a meal that was prepared
by the license holder and that was served at a table on the licensed premises.
The license holder may charge a corkage fee for serving wine supplied by the
customer. Consumption of wine pursuant to this subsection is not a violation of
this section. The customer may carry out the unconsumed portion of the bottle
of wine if it is securely resealed by the license holder as provided in
subsection (3) and such resealed bottle is not a violation of this section if
the cork and seal have not been disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.24) (Ord. 316, passed - -; Ord. 493, passed - -; Ord. 597,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 865, passed - -; Ord. 952, passed 5-18-
2020) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 POSSESSION OF OPEN BOTTLE OR CAN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or have in his or her
possession an opened bottle or can of alcoholic liquor, as defined in SDCL §§
35-1-9.1 through 35-1-9.3, upon any public street or alley either within or
without a motor vehicle within the city limits or upon any public right-of-way
or highway within one mile of the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.25) (Ord. 316, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.24 SIDEWALK SALE AND SERVICE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   The sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages may be authorized on
sidewalks abutting premises licensed as on-premise full-service restaurant in
the area zoned as Commercial District Downtown (C-2DT), by issuance of a permit
subject to the provisions hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OUTDOOR DINING AREA. An area on a public sidewalk, including on the
corner "node" area in cases where the adjacent business is on a corner lot, in
front of and adjacent to a business where food is sold, served and consumed.
      SIDEWALK. That area legally open to public use as a pedestrian walkway
between the street's curb line and the public right-of-way boundary along an
abutting property.
   (C)   Application procedures and requirements.
      (1)   A permit under this section may be granted for service of alcoholic
beverages only if the abutting business is licensed as an on-premise full-
service restaurant that derives not less than 60% of its gross receipts from
the sale of prepared food for consumption on the premises.
      (2)   The holder of an on-premise full-service restaurant license (the
"licensee") may apply to the City Finance Office on the prescribed application
form, for a permit to serve and allow consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
sidewalk abutting the licensed premises. A non-refundable initial permit fee in
the amount of $100 shall accompany the application.
      (3)   The applicant shall, before being issued a permit, submit plans and
drawings identifying a design and plan for the orderly sale and service of
alcoholic beverages. The plan shall include permanent barriers, attached to the
sidewalk, not more than four feet tall, to accurately define the location(s) of
tables and seating which may be, but are not required to be, attached to the
sidewalk. These plans and drawings shall first be submitted to the Code
Enforcement Officer who shall approve the same so long as they comply with this
section and all other applicable laws and regulations.
      (4)   Each application will be reviewed by the Finance Officer. If the
applicant meets all requirements, the Finance Officer shall issue the permit.
      (5)   The service of alcoholic beverages under this section and the
corresponding permit shall be allowed until no later than 1:00 a.m., and such
alcohol sales and service shall only be allowed to food patrons who are seated
at tables.
      (6)   The licensee serving alcohol under this section and corresponding
permit shall at all times leave at least six feet of open and unobstructed
sidewalk for pedestrian traffic. The area within and immediately surrounding
the sidewalk service area must be maintained in a clean, neat, and sanitary
condition. No alcoholic beverages may be stored or mixed in the sidewalk
service area.
      (7)   The licensee shall install, at the licensee's expense, the barriers
and seating as approved under division (C)(3), above, before commencing service
on the sidewalk. The installed items shall continue to be the property of the
licensee and shall be kept in good condition at all times. In the event that
any of those items are removed and not replaced, the licensee shall be
responsible to restore the surface of the sidewalk through the use of
appropriate materials and workmanship.
      (8)   Each permit shall terminate at midnight on December 31 and shall be
non-transferrable. Application for renewal may be made during the month of
December for the following year. Renewal fee shall be $100 to be paid when
renewal is applied for.
      (9)   The permit holder shall furnish a certificate of insurance proving
commercial insurance coverage of at least $1,000,000 for bodily injury, death,
disability, and property damage liability. The City of Winner shall be named as
an additional insured on a primary, noncontributory basis for any liability
arising directly or indirectly from the operation of the sidewalk service area.
In the event of cancellation or nonrenewal of the insurance, the permit holder
shall have 24 hours to reinstate the insurance or the permit shall be
automatically revoked without any further process.
(Ord. 1017, passed 12-6-2021)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.26)
   (B)   Any person upon whom a duty is placed by the provisions of §
110.14, who shall fail, neglect or refuse to perform such duty, or who shall
knowingly violate any provision hereof, shall be deemed guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor. Each day that a violation of §
110.14 continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be
punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 6.01.16)
(Ord. 316, passed - -; Ord. 688, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 746,
passed - -; Ord. 791, passed - -)
CHAPTER 111: PAWN DEALERS
Section
   
111.01   Required licenses; fee and term of license
   
111.02   Fixed premises
   
111.03   Bond
   
111.04   Suspension or revocation of license
   
111.05   Separate license and bond
   
111.06   Change in location of licensed premises
   
111.07   Records required
   
111.08   Inspection of records or license
   
111.09   Pawn tickets
   
111.10   Duty of Police Department
   
111.11   Holding period
   
111.12   Pawned articles
   
111.13   Effect of hold order
   
111.14   Accepting articles
   
111.15   Unlawful transactions
   
111.16   Concealing articles
   
111.17   Examination of premises
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 REQUIRED LICENSES; FEE AND TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer, without first obtaining a license from the
city finance office. The application for such license shall contain all
pertinent information required by the city finance office and provisions of the
city ordinances relating to licensure. Any person applying for a pawnbroker’s
license or a secondhand dealer’s license, must, before his or her application
will be considered, come to the City Police Department and furnish adequate
identification. No license under this chapter shall be issued to any person who
has been convicted of a felony; no license under this chapter shall be issued
to any corporation, one or more officers or directors of which have been
convicted of a felony.
   (B)   The annual license fee for a pawnbroker’s license shall be $100,
payable in advance.
   (C)   The annual license fee for secondhand dealers shall be $25, payable in
advance.
   (D)   Any person having a business which encompasses more than one of the
two designated categories set forth in this chapter, and all businesses being
conducted on one premises, shall obtain all appropriate licenses, but the total
fee for licenses for the single premises shall not exceed $100.
   (E)   The term of the license shall be one year.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.01) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.02 FIXED PREMISES.
   (A)   No person shall engage in business as a pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer unless said person has a fixed premises where said business is
conducted, either on a continuing basis or from time to time, and unless said
person has first obtained a license to engage in that business at that
premises.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, FIXED PREMISES shall include any
non-mobile premises where such business is conducted and said pawned or
purchased secondhand articles are held according to the provisions of §
111.11, whether or not that premises remains in the same location during the
period the license is in effect.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.02) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.03 BOND.
   Each pawnbroker doing business in the city shall furnish a good sufficient
bond, with a surety to be approved by the Council, in the sum of $1,000,
conditioned for faithful observance of this chapter and conditioned for the
safekeeping or return of all articles held in pledge of such pawnbroker.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.03) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.04 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license issued to a licensee under this chapter, who shall have
violated the provisions of this chapter, may be suspended for a prescribed
period not to exceed 60 days, in the event of a failure on the part of the
licensee to comply with the provisions of this chapter after ten days’ written
notice and a public hearing.
   (B)   A license issued to a licensee under this chapter, who shall have
violated the provisions of this chapter, may be revoked by the Council after
ten days’ written notice and a public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.04) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 715, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
§ 111.05 SEPARATE LICENSE AND BOND.
   Any person conducting several or separate places of business shall pay the
appropriate license fees and procure the appropriate licenses and bond for each
place of business. The above-mentioned proprietor’s license shall be sufficient
for all clerks, agents and employees engaged at the place named in the license.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.05) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 111.06 CHANGE IN LOCATION OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   If, during the effective period of a license issued under this chapter a
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer changes the location of the licensed premises
within the city, such dealer shall inform the city finance office of such
change of location and shall have the new premises to be licensed noted on the
license. There shall be no additional fee charged for changing the location of
the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.06) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.07 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep books or records of pawn tickets in a
manner satisfactory to the Chief of Police, where he or she shall accurately
and intelligibly enter, in ink, in the English language, at the time of
purchasing or receiving any personal property, and after requiring and
observing identification from the person seeking to pawn the property, a record
of the following information:
      (1)   The name of the person from whom the property is purchased or
received, his or her place of residence and his or her date of birth;
      (2)   A detailed and accurate description of each article, which shall
include, if available, the manufacture’s name, style model number, serial
number, engraved initials or other identifying marks;
      (3)   The date and time of transaction;
      (4)   The amount necessary for redemption;
      (5)   The date when the article is to be redeemed; and
      (6)   Any mortgage or bill of sale taken, or receipt of pawn ticket
given.
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall also record the date of disposition or
redemption from pawn of said article or any part or portion thereof. Said
disposition report shall be located in the same book and at the same place
where the receiving records of said article are located.
   (C)   Every secondhand goods dealer shall keep books or records for those
articles defined herein in a manner satisfactory to the Chief of Police or his
or her designee. The dealer shall accurately and intelligibly enter, in ink, in
the English language, at the time of purchasing or receiving any article or
item, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the person from whom the property was purchased or
received, his or her place of residence and his or her date of birth;
      (2)   Date and time of the transaction;
      (3)   A detailed description of the item which shall include, if
available, the manufacturer’s name, style model number, serial number, engraved
initials or other identifying marks;
      (4)   If the seller is not known personally to the dealer or the dealer’s
agent, the dealer is required to obtain the person’s drivers license number and
the state of issuance or, if available the identifying number from at least one
form of government issued identification; and
      (5)   The amount paid for the article.
   (D)   Any person who fails to keep such records or fails to make the
required entries therein, or shall intentionally or knowingly make any false or
unintelligible entry, or any entry which he or she has reason to believe is
untrue, or who shall fail to make the inquiries necessary to enable him or her
to make such entries or any of them, or who shall fail to produce his or her
records when requested by a city police officer during reasonable business
hours, or who shall destroy or willfully permit such records to be destroyed or
lost, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   The records required by this section shall be maintained for one year
after the date of purchase or receipt and shall be made available for
inspection to city police officers during reasonable business hours.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.07) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.08 INSPECTION OF RECORDS OR LICENSE.
   (A)   The books or records required by §
111.07 to be kept by pawnbrokers or secondhand dealers shall be open to the
inspection of city police officers during reasonable business hours.
   (B)   The pawnbroker shall produce and show any article pledged in
connection with any loan.
   (C)   The licenses required by §
111.01 for pawnbrokers or secondhand dealers shall at all times be on display
in a conspicuous place and available for inspection by city police officers
during reasonable business hours. This division (C) shall not apply when the
license is being taken to the city finance office to have a change of location
recorded.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.08) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.09 PAWN TICKETS.
   (A)   At the time of receiving a pledge and upon the subsequent renewal of a
loan, the pawnbroker shall deliver to the pledger or his or her agent a pawn
ticket, which pawn tickets shall be correspondingly serially numbered, and
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the pawnbroker;
      (2)   A generic description of the pledge with such particular details of
description noted whenever possible in order to distinguish the article or
articles;
      (3)   The date and time of the transaction; and
      (4)   The amount, duration and terms of the loan.
   (B)   The pawnbroker may insert on the pawn ticket any other terms,
conditions and information that are not inconsistent with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.09) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.10 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Police Department to periodically
contact the licensed premises under this chapter to inspect or obtain copies of
records required to be kept according to §
111.07, setting forth a description of the person by whom they were left in
pledge or sold.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall have the power and
authority to require such reports to be made in a manner and form subject to
his or her approval.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.10) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 111.11 HOLDING PERIOD.
   (A)   Any person licensed as a pawnbroker, who shall purchase any new or
secondhand goods of any individuals not engaged in trade, shall keep the same
for inspection for ten days from the time of the transfer, except on written
release from the Chief of Police or his or her designee. The above-mentioned
property shall be held during this period on the licensed premises or some
other secure location within the city and shall not be disposed of or altered
from the form in which it was received during this period.
   (B)   Any person licensed as a secondhand goods dealer who shall purchase
any new or secondhand goods as defined herein of any individual not engaged in
trade shall either:
      (1)   Keep the same for inspection for ten days from the time of
transfer, except on written release from the Chief of Police or his or her
designee. The above-mentioned property shall be held during this period on the
licensed premises or some other secure location within the city and shall not
be disposed of or altered from the form in which it was received during this
period; or
      (2)   Keep the same for three working days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays
and calendar holidays, after delivering the required records to the City Police
Department. The time period shall begin when said records are delivered to the
City Police Department. The above-mentioned property shall be held during this
period in the licensed premises or some other secure location within the city
and shall not be disposed of or altered from the form in which it was received,
except on written release from the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
   (C)   When articles are acquired by a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer in a
group, they shall be kept together for identification purposes and not
separated until the ten-day period has elapsed, unless released prior on
written authorization by the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.11) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.12 PAWNED ARTICLES.
   Every article of any kind or description which is taken in pawn by a
pawnbroker shall be held by the pawnbroker for a period of 40 days, during
which time the same shall not be shown either for sale or for inspection, to
any person, other than a city police officer, during reasonable business hours.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.12) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 617, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 EFFECT OF HOLD ORDER.
   The Chief of Police or any authorized police officer may, by written order,
order a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to hold any specified article or
articles, deposited with or in custody of such pawnbroker or secondhand dealer,
for purposes of further investigation by the Police Department, when said item
or items are believed to be stolen. A hold order shall remain in effect for a
period of 30 days commencing the day on which the hold order was delivered to
the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer. A hold order shall supercede the
provisions of §§
111.11 and
111.12 and no sale or other disposition may be made of said article or articles
while such hold order remains outstanding, unless released by officers issuing
the hold order.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.13) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 111.14 ACCEPTING ARTICLES.
   A pawnbroker who accepts in pledge any article as security for a loan from a
pledger who is not the owner thereof, obtains no property in the article,
either by reason of maturation of the loan or by transference of the pawn
ticket to the pawnbroker by the pledger or holder thereof. Ignorance of the
fact that the pledged article was lost or stolen shall not be construed to
affect the question of title, and if the pawnbroker shall sell such article to
a third person, he or she shall remain liable to the original owner.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.14) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 111.15 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to accept any
articles in pawn or purchase any secondhand personal property by acquiring a
pawn ticket by transference from any person under 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.15) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.16 CONCEALING ARTICLES.
   No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer shall conceal, secrete or destroy, for
the purpose of concealing, any article purchased or received by him or her, for
the purpose of preventing identification thereof by city police officers.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.16) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.17 EXAMINATION OF PREMISES.
   No pawnbroker or secondhand dealer or any other personnel shall refuse,
resist or attempt to prevent any city police officer without a warrant from
examining the licensed premises occupied by the pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer, or other secured premises within the city limits where property is
stored, during reasonable business hours for the purpose of discovering stolen
property.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.17) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person that violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to
comply with any provision thereof shall be deemed guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor and shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6.02.18) (Ord. 591, passed - -; Ord. 715, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
CHAPTER 112: JUNK DEALERS AND JUNK YARDS
Section
   
112.01   License requirement
   
112.02   Application for license
   
112.03   Annual fee
   
112.04   Approval of application
   
112.05   Right to revoke license
   
112.06   Record keeping
   
112.07   Records made available
   
112.08   Restrictions on operations
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   No person shall collect or store junk or operate a junk yard within the city
without first having secured a license therefor as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.01) (Ord. 281, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 747,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any person desiring a license to operate as a junk dealer or as a junk yard
within the corporate limits of the city, shall make application in writing to
the Council and said application shall state:
   (A)   Name;
   (B)   Current mailing address;
   (C)   The premises where the business is or will be located or conducted and
description shall be given by lot and block number or by legal description; and
   (D)   A site plan must be submitted showing lot lines, storage plans, type
of junk stored, list number of vehicles, if applicable, and location on lot(s)
where junk is to be stored.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.02) (Ord. 281, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 747,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 ANNUAL FEE.
   Every junk dealer or operator of a junk yard shall pay an annual fee of $25
for each establishment or place of business, which shall include one junk yard
and, the sum of $10 for each additional junk yard. The operator of the junk
yard shall at all times keep said yard and his or her place of business in such
condition so that the same will not become offensive or obnoxious and said
premises shall at all times be kept free from rodents.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.03) (Ord. 281, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 747,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   Upon filing of the application together with the necessary license fee, and
upon compliance with this chapter, the city shall issue a license.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.04) (Ord. 281, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 747,
passed - -)
§ 112.05 RIGHT TO REVOKE LICENSE.
   The Council shall have the right to revoke any license granted under this
chapter if it determines upon investigation and after hearing the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of this chapter and providing that a notice of
hearing shall be served upon the licensee named in the license at least five
days before the hearing, either by personal service of a copy of the notice or
by mailing a copy of the same to the person at the address given in the
application. If any license granted under this chapter were revoked, no refund
of the license fee shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.05) (Ord. 281, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 747,
passed - -)
§ 112.06 RECORD KEEPING.
   Every junk dealer or operator of a junk yard shall keep a written record of
all articles and quantities purchased setting forth the name, residence, age
and occupation of the person from whom each article or articles were purchased,
the date the purchase was made and the price paid. Such record shall at all
times be opened for the inspection of the police officers or any officer of the
law to make investigation and securing evidence in connection with any
violation of law.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.06) (Ord. 281, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 747,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 RECORDS MADE AVAILABLE.
   Every junk dealer or operator of a junk yard, upon being served with written
notice to do so by a member the Police Department, shall report to the Chief of
Police, giving written description of all goods, articles and things purchased
or received in the course of business as a junk dealer or operator of a junk
yard and covering such a period of time as may be specified in the notice. Such
written notice shall state the amount paid for each item and the name,
residence and a general description of the person from whom the goods, articles
or things were received.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.07) (Ord. 281, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 747,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No junk dealer or operator of a junk yard shall carry on a business at
or from any other place than the premises designated and described in the
application and license, and all junk of any kind shall be kept wholly within
the boundaries of such premises, and inside of buildings, or enclosed by an
approved fence as described in division (E) below.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any junk dealer or operator of a junk yard to
burn junk or refuse on the premises covered by said license or any other place
in the city.
   (C)   The wrecking and dismantling of old cars for the purpose of securing
parts shall be done wholly inside of the enclosure provided by said junk dealer
or operator of a junk yard and shall not in any event be done upon the highway
or streets or alleys of the city, or outside of the premises described in the
application process.
   (D)   In the case where there are two or more junked vehicles and no other
junk is present, a fence will not be required if the following conditions are
met:
      (1)   Vehicles need to be lined up in rows running parallel to each
other, with 15 feet between rows to allow access for emergency vehicles and
cannot be stacked one on top of the other;
      (2)   Set backs of 40 feet in the front of the property, 20 feet on the
sides of the property and six feet in the rear of the property must be met and
shown on the site plan;
      (3)   Doors, trunks and hoods need to be closed;
      (4)   No fluids from vehicles are allowed to leak and contaminate soil;
and
      (5)   Area has to be well maintained and follow §§
95.01 through
95.07 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   In the case where the criteria set forth in division (D) above is not
met, a fence approved by the Building Department shall be erected. The fence
shall be constructed from approved materials that shield the contents of the
premises from public view and shall be well constructed and maintained, at
least eight feet in height and not to exceed ten feet in height. The fence must
be located a minimum of 150 feet from any state or federal highway. All permits
required for erection of such fence must be obtained prior to construction and
all building regulations must be followed. After the construction of such fence
it shall at all times be suitably maintained and kept in good repair by the
licensee. In no event shall any such licensee permit any advertising matter of
any sort to be placed upon said fence, except that such licensee may use not to
exceed 50 square feet of said fence for the purpose of advertising his or her
business.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.08) (Ord. 281, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 747,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating any section of this chapter shall
be punishable per §
10.99. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense. In
addition, such person shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
   (B)   Every police officer and Code Enforcement Officer of the city, in
connection with their duties imposed by law, shall diligently enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.03.09) (Ord. 281, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 747,
passed - -)
CHAPTER 113: TAXI CABS
Section
   
113.01   License requirement
   
113.02   License fees
   
113.03   Term of license
   
113.04   Application and issuance of license
   
113.05   Operator’s license
   
113.06   Inspection
   
113.07   Revocation of license
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   No person shall operate, hire out, keep or use for hire upon the streets of
the city any taxi cab, cab, bus or buses, or any other vehicle of any
description or name whatsoever for the conveyance of passengers for hire within
the city without first obtaining a license for each of said vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.01) (Ord. 271, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 113.02 LICENSE FEES.
   There shall be paid to the City Finance Officer before the issuing of said
license by the parties applying for the same, the following sums:
   (A)   Each cab or taxi cab operation within the city: $10; and
   (B)   Each bus: $10.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.02) (Ord. 271, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 113.03 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses granted hereunder shall continue in effect until the first
Monday in May after date of issuance and such license shall not be
transferable. The license shall be issued in the name of the city and shall be
signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Finance Officer. If the term for
which said license shall be issued is less than six months before its
expiration date, the license fee payable by such applicant shall be one-half of
the license fee as fixed in §
113.02.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.03) (Ord. 271, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 113.04 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Each applicant for any license hereunder shall appear in person before the
Council at a regular meeting thereof and the Council shall not approve the
issuance of any license to engage in the business of operating a taxi cab, or
taxi cabs, or bus or buses only upon being satisfied that the applicant has met
or will meet the following requirements:
   (A)   A fit person to engage in such business;
   (B)   Vehicles and equipment are such as are consistent with the safety of
the public;
   (C)   Has indemnity and public liability insurance covering the operation of
each vehicle, to protect such operation of each vehicle, to protect such
operation against liability to passengers and third persons for personal injury
suffered or sustained by them as a result of the operation of such taxi cab or
bus, and said policies to be in an amount of not less than $10,000 for damages
to any one person and not less than $20,000 for damage to more than one person
injured as the result of any one accident, and not less than $1,000 for
property damage, resulting from any one accident. Such policies shall be
maintained during the term of the license; and
   (D)   In case of application to operate bus or buses, the Council may
request changes or alterations in the proposed route or routes, time schedule,
rate of fare or stops before granting license. After the license has been
issued the operator shall not materially change or alter the approved route or
routes, time schedules, rates of fare or stops without first receiving the
approval of the City Council to make such change.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.04) (Ord. 271, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 113.05 OPERATOR’S LICENSE.
   No person shall operate, drive or be engaged or employed in the business of
driving upon the public streets of the city, any taxi cab or bus, without first
having produced a license therefor from the City Finance Officer. An applicant
for such a license shall be at least 21 years of age, or sound physical and
free from infirmity that would effect his or her ability to properly drive a
taxi cab or motor bus. The applicant must be a resident of the county for at
least six months prior to the date of the application, and must furnish letters
of recommendation from three reputable citizens of the city that they know of
the applicant and that he or she is, in their opinion, a fit person to drive a
motor bus or taxi cab in the city. No person shall be licensed, under this
chapter, to operate a taxi cab or motor bus, who has pled guilty or has been
found guilty of the commission of a felony or driving while intoxicated, as
defined in the South Dakota Code, within three years of the date of
application. A license fee of $10 shall be paid to the City Finance Officer
before such license shall be issued by the City Finance Officer and the
licensee shall have such license in his or her possession whenever engaged in
driving a taxi cab or bus, and exhibit it for inspection whenever requested to
do so by a police officer. Any such driver’s license may be revoked by the
Council for cause, and any license issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall be revoked by the Council upon discovery of any false statement made in
the application for such license.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.05) (Ord. 271, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 113.06 INSPECTION.
   Every operator of any bus and cab licensed hereunder shall be inspected for
proper functioning and safety of the systems of the vehicle, including, but not
limited to, brakes, exhaust, lights, seat belts, windows and mirrors, as well
as the cleanliness of the vehicle; and every operator shall clean the interior
of each taxi and bus after each days operation. Such inspection shall be
conducted by the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.06) (Ord. 271, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 956,
passed 7-6-2020)
§ 113.07 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall, at
the discretion of the Council, have his or her said license revoked by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.07) (Ord. 271, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
CHAPTER 114: DIGGING
Section
   
114.01   Permit
   
114.02   Backfill
   
114.03   Refund of deposit
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person or utility shall obtain an alley/street excavation permit
prior to making, causing or permitting to be made, any excavation in or under
the surface of any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place for the
installation, repair or removal of any pipe, conduit, duct or tunnel, or for
any other purpose. The City Council shall periodically set the required cost of
alley/street excavation permits through the ordinance process.
   (B)   The City Superintendent shall approve all work prior to the issuance
of a permit.
   (C)   The person so applying shall deposit with the City Street Department,
in the form of cash or certified check, an amount of not less than $100.
(Prior Code, § 6.05.01) (Ord. 280, passed - -; Ord. 478, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 798, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 BACKFILL.
   All excavations shall be properly backfilled, and the backfill shall be
tamped as it is replaced and must be left level with the present grade of the
street or alley. During the time that the ditch or excavation is open, it shall
be the responsibility of the person to whom the permit is issued to see that
sufficient burning flares are placed at the opening while the excavation is
open, during the hours of from twilight to dawn and shall place blockades at
the ditch or excavation, to block traffic during the entire period that said
excavation shall remain open and see that safety precautions are taken at all
times to protect the public and traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6.05.02) (Ord. 478, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
114.99
§ 114.03 REFUND OF DEPOSIT.
   The deposit so made shall remain with the city for a period of not less than
three or more than six months and any settling of the backfill must be brought
up to grade level by the person to whom the permit was issued when notified by
the Street Commissioner of the city to put in more backfill at the place of
excavation, and at the end of the period, the excavation and backfill shall be
inspected by the Street Commissioner of said city and when approved by him or
her, the deposit so made shall be refunded if said excavation has been properly
filled and packed. Should any person making the excavation or digging upon any
street or alley pursuant to this chapter fail, neglect or refuse to properly
refill any ditch or excavation made by them pursuant to this chapter when
requested, then, and in the event, it shall be the duty of the Street
Commissioner of the city to cause said excavation to be properly filled and
tamped or properly backfilled and the cost thereof shall be reported to the
Street Commissioner to the City Finance Officer and the amount of the cost
thereof shall be deducted from the amount so deposited herein and that any sum
then remaining in the hands of the city by virtue of said deposit shall then be
refunded to the person that obtained said permit.
(Prior Code, § 6.05.03) (Ord. 478, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6.05.04) (Ord. 478, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
CHAPTER 115: TATTOOS AND BODY PIERCINGS
Section
   
115.01   License requirement
   
115.02   Application
   
115.03   Annual fee
   
115.04   Issuance of license
   
115.05   Right to revoke license
   
115.06   Definitions
   
115.07   Minors
   
115.08   Minimum sanitation requirements for tattoos and body piercings
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   No person shall engage in a business as a tattoo artist within the city or
within one mile thereof as defined in this chapter without first having secured
a license therefor as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.01) (Ord. 775, passed - -) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a license to operate as a tattoo artist shall make
application in writing to the Council and said application shall state:
   (A)   Name;
   (B)   Post office address;
   (C)   Length of time applicant has resided in the city;
   (D)   The premises where the business is or will be located or conducted and
description shall be given by lot and block number or by legal description; and
   (E)   Any other information the Council may require.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.02) (Ord. 775, passed - -) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 ANNUAL FEE.
   Every tattoo artist or parlor or business shall pay an annual fee of $25 for
each establishment or place of business.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.03) (Ord. 775, passed - -)
§ 115.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon filing of the application together with the necessary license fee, the
Council, if it deems such applicant a fit and proper person to engage in such
business, a license shall be issued by the Finance Officer in the manner
provided for issuance of licenses.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.04) (Ord. 775, passed - -)
§ 115.05 RIGHT TO REVOKE LICENSE.
   The Council shall have the right to revoke any license granted under this
chapter if it determines upon investigation and after hearing that the licensee
has violated any of the provisions of this chapter and providing that a notice
of the hearing shall be served upon the licensee named in the license at least
five days before the hearing, either by personal service of a copy of the
notice or by mailing a copy of the same to licensee at the address given in the
application. Should any license granted under this chapter be revoked, no fund
of the license fee shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.05) (Ord. 775, passed - -)
§ 115.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODY PIERCING. To place a permanent or temporary foreign object in a
person’s body such as ears, nose, lips, genitals, nipples or parts thereof for
a decorative or other non-medical purpose by a person not directly under the
supervision of a licensed physician as defined by SDCL § 36-4-11.
   TATTOO. To make permanent marks or designs on the skin by puncturing it and
inserting indelible colors.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.06) (Ord. 775, passed - -)
§ 115.07 MINORS.
   No minor may be tattooed or pierced unless the minor’s parent or guardian
have signed a consent form authorizing the tattoo or piercing.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.07) (Ord. 775, passed - -) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 MINIMUM SANITATION REQUIREMENTS FOR TATTOOS AND BODY PIERCINGS.
   The city hereby adopts, as if fully set out herein, the minimum sanitation
requirements for tattooing and body piercings, including premises, equipment,
methods of operation and freedom from communicable disease as provided for by
the State Department of Health and as presently set out in the Administrative
Rules of South Dakota, ARSD Chapter 44:12 for tattooing and body piercing.
Further, the city shall adopt, as a portion of this chapter, any amendments to
the existing regulations that the Department of Health for the state has
adopted regarding the minimum sanitation standards for tattooing and body
piercing.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.08) (Ord. 775, passed - -)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who tattoos or pierces a minor without parental or guardian
consent, in violation of §
115.07, is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6.06.07) (Ord. 775, passed - -)
CHAPTER 116: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Permit required
   
116.03   Nuisances
   
116.04   Exceptions
   
116.05   Application for transient merchant permit—City Finance Officer
   
116.06   Application for peddler/solicitor/mobile foot vendor permit—Chief of
Police
   
116.07   Duration of peddler/solicitor/transient merchant permit
   
116.08   Duration of mobile food vendor permit
   
116.09   Peddler/solicitor/transient vendor hours of operation
   
116.10   Mobile food vendor locations and times prohibited
   
116.11   Mobile food vendor health, safety, and sanitation
   
116.12   Suspension or revocation of permit
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any person, principal or agent, engaging in an activity
whereby food, either on-site or at another licensed food preparation facility,
or beverages are sold from a food truck or food cart. This definition shall not
include food and beverage delivery services.
   PEDDLER/SOLICITOR. Any person, principal, or agent, traveling from place to
place, from house to house or from street to street for the purpose of selling
or soliciting for sale goods, wares, merchandise, or services.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person transacting a temporary business within the
city at an established place of business other than where that person’s normal
place of business may be. This person is generally known to the Finance
Officer.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 116.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a
peddler/solicitor/transient merchant or mobile food vendor within this City
without first obtaining a permit to do so. No peddler’s permit shall be issued
to a corporation, partnership or other impersonal legal entity. Each individual
person engaging in the business of peddling/soliciting within the City shall be
required to have a permit whether acting for himself or herself or as an agent
or representative of another. Permits issued under this chapter shall be non-
transferrable.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to give any false or misleading
information in connection with an application for a permit required by this
chapter. No permit shall be issued if the information in the application is
incomplete.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any peddler/solicitor/transient merchant to
enter upon a private premises when the same is posted with a sign stating, “No
Peddlers Allowed,” “No Solicitors Allowed” or the like. Any peddler/solicitor/
transient merchant who enters upon premises owned or leased by another and
willfully refuses to leave the premises having been notified by the owner or
possessor of the premises, to leave the same, shall be in violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any peddler/solicitor/transient merchant to
make false or fraudulent statements concerning the quality or nature of goods,
wares, merchandise, or services for the purpose of inducing another to purchase
the same. Every peddler/solicitor /transient merchant having a permit issued
under the provisions of this chapter and doing business within the city shall
openly display their permit.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The requirements of registration and permitting in this chapter shall not
apply to:
   (A)   Solicitations, sales or distributions made by charitable, educational,
or religious organizations.
   (B)   The seasonal sale of agricultural products grown or produced in this
state by the seller.
   (C)   Traveling salespersons doing business exclusively with retail
merchants, manufacturers, jobbers or public officials.
   (D)   Bona fide garage, rummage, yard or moving sales which do not occur at
the same location more than four times per year, for more than four days each
time.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 116.05 APPLICATION FOR TRANSIENT MERCHANT PERMIT—CITY FINANCE OFFICER.
   The application for a transient merchant permit required by the provisions
of this chapter shall be made to the City Finance Officer or designee, and
shall contain:
   (A)   The applicant’s name, permanent address, local address, and date of
birth.
   (B)   The name local and permanent addresses of the person or entity that
the applicant represents and if an entity, the type of entity and the state in
which the entity is legally organized.
   (C)   A photocopy of the applicant’s government issued identification.
   (D)   A statement describing the kind of goods, wares, merchandise, or
services the applicant wishes to sell within the city.
   (E)   A statement of whether the applicant, upon any sale or order, shall
demand, accept, or receive payment, or deposit, of money in advance of final
delivery.
   (F)   The period of time the applicant wishes to engage in business within
the city.
   (G)   A photocopy of the applicable South Dakota sales tax license.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 116.06 APPLICATION FOR PEDDLER/SOLICITOR/MOBILE FOOD VENDOR PERMIT—CHIEF OF
POLICE.
   The application for a peddler, solicitor or mobile food v endor permit
required by the provisions of this chapter shall be made to the Chief of Police
or designee, and shall contain:
   (A)   The applicant’s name, address, phone numbers and government issued ID
number.
   (B)   The business name, address, phone numbers and SD sales tax number.
   (C)   A photocopy of the applicant’s government issued ID.
   (D)   A statement describing the kids of goods, wares, merchandise or
services the applicant wishes to sell within the city.
   (E)   A description of the location/site where the mobile food vendor will
be set up and size of the unit.
   (F)   A statement of whether the applicant, upon any sale or order, shall
demand, accept, or receive payment, or deposit, of money in advance of final
delivery.
   (G)   The period of time the applicant wishes to engage in business within
the city.
   (H)   A photocopy of the applicable South Dakota sales tax license.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 116.07 DURATION OF PEDDLER/SOLICITOR/TRANSIENT MERCHANT PERMIT.
   (A)   Any peddler, solicitor or transient merchant permit issued under the
provisions of this chapter will expire at 8:00 o’clock p.m. on the date of
expiration which is written on the permit, in any event not later than one year
from the date of issuance.
   (B)   The City Finance Office or Chief of Police shall complete a review of
each application for a peddler/solicitor/transient merchant permit and issue a
permit within five business days of completion of the application, exclusive of
weekends and holidays.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 116.08 DURATION OF MOBILE FOOD VENDOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any mobile food vendor permit issued under the provisions of this
chapter will expire at 8:00 o'clock p.m. on the date of expiration which is
written on the permit, in any event not later than six months from the date of
issuance.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall complete a review of each application for a
mobile food vendor permit and issue a permit within five business days of
completion of the application, exclusive of weekends and holidays.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 116.09 PEDDLER/SOLICITOR/TRANSIENT VENDOR HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler/solicitor/transient merchant to engage
in the business of peddling, selling or vending between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. In addition, peddlers conducting business by soliciting at any
residence shall not engage in such solicitation between the hours of 8:00 p.m.
and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.10 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR LOCATIONS AND TIMES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Mobile food and beverage vending is prohibited where the vendor, the
vendor’s vehicle or equipment, or the vending activity is blocking access to a
public street, alley, bike path, sidewalk, or access to an adjacent property.
They may operate in a lawful parking area of a street in a zoned residential
area, but for no longer than 30 consecutive minutes on an individual city
block, after which they must move to a different block. In zoned commercial or
industrial areas of the city, the mobile food vendor must be parked off-street
(such as in a parking lot) where sales are conducted in order to provide better
safety for their customers.
   (B)   Mobile food and beverage vending may occur in a city park so long as
the vendor is lawfully parked in a regular parking area and is not obstructing
traffic or obstructing the view for fans of organized sporting events;
provided, however, that mobile food and beverage vending is prohibited in any
park where a concession contractor is operating in that park, unless the mobile
vendor has first registered with the Finance Officer at least three weeks prior
to the proposed usage; a public hearing is scheduled with the City Council with
notice thereof published for one week prior to the public hearing; and after
the public hearing, at which the city’s concession contractor shall be given
the opportunity to be heard, the City Council may grant consent for the
proposed usage.
   (C)   Mobile food and beverage vending is prohibited within the city between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., except in residential areas where it is
prohibited between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (D)   The above prohibited times and locations do not apply to mobile food
vendors operating where a city-approved special event permit has been issued,
during the hours of operation of that special event, and with authorization
from the special event sponsor.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11 MOBILE FOOD VENDOR HEALTH, SAFETY, AND SANITATION.
   Mobile food and beverage vendors shall:
   (A)   Operate according to the applicable statutes and regulations of the
State of South Dakota for health and safety;
   (B)   Provide a sufficient trash bin for public use and remove all garbage
within 25 feet of the vendor’s food truck or food cart;
   (C)   Not sell or distribute alcoholic beverages;
   (D)   Not broadcast loud noise that results in a nuisance to the surrounding
properties.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 116.12 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any registration that authorizes a person to operate as a peddler under the
provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the issuing city official or
designee for the violation by the permittee of any provision of this chapter.
Upon such revocation being communicated to the peddler, the peddler must
immediately cease from any further activities provided for by this chapter.
Failure to cease upon notification shall be unlawful; such permit shall
immediately be surrendered, and failure to do so shall be an offense. The
revocation may be appealed to the City Council by the vendor filing the written
appeal with the Finance Officer not more than ten days after revocation by the
city official is communicated to the vendor.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
    Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and shall be punished under the authority of
and pursuant to §
10.99.
(Ord. 1054, passed 7-3-2023)
CHAPTER 117: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
117.01   Purpose and intent
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   License required
   
117.04   License application
   
117.05   Issuance of license
   
117.06   City neutrality as to applicants
   
117.07   Number of cannabis dispensaries
   
117.08   Expiration of license and renewal
   
117.09   Suspension
   
117.10   Revocation
   
117.11   Suspension and revocation process
   
117.12   Appeal
   
117.13   Licenses not transferrable
   
117.14   Hours of operation for dispensaries
   
117.15   Liability for violations
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City Council of the City of Winner enacts the following licensing
chapter in order to ensure that cannabis establishments within the municipal
boundaries of the city operate in a manner which complies with state laws and
regulations, protects the health, safety, and welfare of the general public,
prevents potential conflicts and issues arising from ownership and employees,
recognizes certain safety and security considerations, and minimizes the risk
of unauthorized use of or access to cannabis by the general public.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless an alternative definition is explicitly stated in this section, this
chapter utilizes the definitions for cannabis-related terms which are defined
by SDCL § 34-20G-1.
   CANNABIS (or MARIJUANA). All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. The term does not include fiber produced
from the mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the seeds of
such plant. The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L. (hemp) and
any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives,
extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether
growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more
than three-tenths of 1% on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, this
term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed cannabis cultivation
facility, cannabis testing facility, cannabis product manufacturing facility,
or cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, intended for use
or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally authorized to
analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   DEPARTMENT. The South Dakota Department of Health.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the City of
Winner without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment license
issued by the city pursuant to this chapter. A violation of this provision is
subject to the imposition of a civil penalty in the amount of $500. Each day of
the violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   No cannabis establishment may be located or operate in the city
without the appropriate valid and current cannabis establishment registration
certificate issued by the Department pursuant to rules promulgated under SDCL §
34-20G. A violation of this provision is subject to the imposition of a civil
penalty in the amount of $500. Each day of the violation constitutes a separate
offense.
   (C)   The city will not issue a license to, and will not allow to operate
within the city, any cannabis cultivation facility, cannabis product
manufacturing facility, or cannabis testing facility that might seek to operate
within the city.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a cannabis establishment license must be made on a
form provided by the City Finance Officer. No other application form will be
considered.
   (B)   The applicant must submit the following:
      (1)   Application fee of $10,000. The city will reimburse 80% of the
application fee for applicants who make timely application to the South Dakota
Department of Health but are unable to obtain a registration certificate from
the Department for any reason.
      (2)   An application that will include, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The legal name of the prospective cannabis establishment and the
legal name of the entity that will operate the establishment.
         (b)   The physical address of the prospective cannabis establishment
that is not within 1,000 feet of a public or private school existing before the
date of the application, which location meets the zoning requirements in
Chapter 154, as well as any location requirements pursuant SDCL § 34-20G and
the administrative rules promulgated thereunder.
         (c)   The name, address, and birth date of each principal officer,
owner, and board member of the proposed cannabis establishment.
         (d)   A sworn statement that no principal officer, owner, or board
member has been convicted of a felony offense in the previous ten years in any
jurisdiction.
         (e)   A copy of the applicant's sales tax license.
         (f)   Any additional information requested by the city.
   (C)   Unless specifically listed as a permitted use in a particular zoning
district, cannabis establishments shall be prohibited in the district.
   (D)   Any other requirements established by the city through resolution or
ordinance.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city will issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant has made a false statement on the application or
submits false records or documentation;
      (2)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant is
under the age of 21 years;
      (3)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
been convicted of a felony offense in the previous ten years in any
jurisdiction;
      (4)   The proposed location does not meet the applicable zoning
requirements under
Chapter 154;
      (5)   The proposed location does not meet all location requirements under
SDCL § 34-20G and the administrative rules promulgated thereunder;
      (6)   The license is to be used for a business prohibited by state or
local law, statute, rule, ordinance, or regulation;
      (7)   Any owner, principal officer, or board member of the applicant has
had a cannabis establishment license revoked by the city or a registration
certificate revoked by the state;
      (8)   An applicant, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties
assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation to any cannabis
establishment; or
      (9)   The applicant will not be operating the business for which the
license would be issued.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a cannabis dispensary license, the
city will reject the application if the limit on the number of cannabis
dispensaries has been reached.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the cannabis establishment so that it may be easily read at any
time.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.06 CITY NEUTRALITY AS TO APPLICANTS.
   Upon request from the Department as to the city's preference of applicants,
the city will neither support nor oppose any registration certificate
application under consideration by the Department. Likewise, if inquiry is made
by the Department, the city will abstain from endorsing any application as
beneficial to the community.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.07 NUMBER OF CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   No more than two cannabis dispensaries shall be allowed to operate in the
city at any time provided the time, place, and manner of the dispensaries
comply with this chapter. The numerical limits on cannabis dispensaries may be
altered at any time by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.08 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license expires one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
117.04. Application for renewal must be submitted at least 30 days but not more
than 60 days before the expiration date. The license holder must continue to
meet all license requirements to be eligible for a renewal.
   (B)   The renewal fee is $10,000. The city will reimburse 80% of the
application fee for applicants who make timely application to the South Dakota
Department of Health but are unable to obtain a renewal from the Department for
any reason.
   (C)   Failure to renew a license in accordance with this section may result
in additional fees. Upon expiration of the license, the city may order closure
of the cannabis establishment.
   (D)   If a license holder has not operated an establishment for which it
holds a license in the preceding 12 months, the license will not be renewed.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.09 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A license may be suspended if the license holder or an employee or
agent of the license holder:
      (1)   Violates or is otherwise not in compliance with any section of this
chapter.
      (2)   Consumes or smokes or allows any person to consume or smoke
cannabis on the premises of the cannabis establishment.
      (3)   Knowingly dispenses or provides cannabis or cannabis products to an
individual or business to whom it is unlawful to provide cannabis or cannabis
products.
   (B)   A license may be suspended if the license holder has its Department-
issued registration certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed by the
Department or if the registration certificate is expired.
   (C)   A license may be suspended if the license holder creates or allows to
be created a public nuisance at the cannabis establishment.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.10 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A license may be revoked if the license is suspended under §
117.09 and the cause for the suspension is not remedied.
   (B)   A license may be revoked if the license is subject to suspension under
§
117.09 because of a violation outlined in that section and the license has been
previously suspended in the preceding 24 months.
   (C)   A license is subject to revocation if a license holder or employee of
a license holder:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
      (2)   Knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of non-cannabis
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   Operated the cannabis establishment or the business of the cannabis
establishment for which a license is required under this chapter while the
license was suspended;
      (4)   Operated a function of a cannabis establishment for which the
license holder was not licensed (e.g., a licensed cannabis cultivation facility
conducting cannabis testing functions without a cannabis testing establishment
license);
      (5)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, is delinquent in payment to the city, county, or state for any taxes
or fees related to the cannabis establishment;
      (6)   A license holder, or an owner, principal officer, or board member
thereof, has been convicted of, or continues to employ an employee who has been
convicted of, a disqualifying felony offense as defined by SDCL § 34-20G; or
      (7)   The license holder has its Department-issued registration
certificate suspended, revoked, or not renewed or the registration certificate
is expired.
      (8)   The license holder allows a public nuisance to continue after
notice from the city.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.11 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The license holder will receive a notice of intent to suspend or
notice of intent to revoke informing the license holder of the violation and
the city's intention to suspend or revoke the license. The notice will be hand
delivered to the license holder or an employee or agent of the license holder
or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to the physical address of
the cannabis establishment.
   (B)   If the license holder disputes the suspension or revocation, the
license holder has ten days from the postmark date on the notice or the date
the notice was hand delivered to request a hearing before a hearing panel,
which will consist of the City Council with the Mayor acting to break a tie if
necessary. The decision of the City Council is a final decision.
   (C)   A suspension will be for 30 days and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder exercises its rights to process and appeal, in which case the
suspension takes effect upon the final determination of suspension.
   (D)   A revocation will be for one year and begins ten days after the
postmark date on the notice or the date the notice is hand delivered unless the
license holder appeals the revocation, in which case the revocation takes
effect upon the final determination of revocation.
   (E)   The license holder who has had the license revoked may not be issued
any cannabis establishment license for one year from the date the revocation
became effective.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.12 APPEAL.
   An applicant or license holder who has been denied a license or renewal of a
license or who has had a license suspended or revoked under this chapter may
appeal to the City Council by submitting a written appeal within ten days of
the postmark on the notice of denial, nonrenewal, suspension or revocation, or
the date the notice is hand delivered. The written appeal must be submitted to
the Finance Officer, 325 S Monroe St., Ste 118, Winner, SD 57580. The appeal
will be considered by the City Council at a regularly scheduled meeting within
one month of the receipt of the appeal. A hearing before the City Council under
§
117.11(B) shall constitute the one appeal to which the appellant is entitled in
the case of a suspension or revocation. In all cases, the decision of the City
Council is a final decision.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.13 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   No cannabis establishment license holder may transfer the license to any
other person or entity either with or without consideration, nor may a license
holder operate a cannabis establishment at any place other than the address
designated in the application.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.14 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   No cannabis dispensary may be open or conduct business between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. local time, any day of the week.
   (B)   Cannabis dispensaries shall not be permitted to be open or to conduct
business on Sundays, New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Day, Presidents' Day,
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Native American Day, Veterans Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day, and other holidays as designated by City
Council.
   (C)   A violation of this provision is subject to the imposition of a civil
penalty in the amount of $500.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.15 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter,
an act by an employee or agent of a cannabis establishment that constitutes
grounds for suspension or revocation will be imputed to the cannabis
establishment license holder for purposes of finding a violation of this
chapter, or for purposes of license denial, suspension or revocation, only if
an officer, director or general partner, or a person who managed, supervised or
controlled the operation of the cannabis establishment, knowingly allowed such
act to occur on the premises; provided, however, if the same employee or agent
of the cannabis establishment subsequently commits an additional violation,
that subsequent violation will be imputed to the cannabis establishment license
holder for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or for purposes of
license denial, suspension, or revocation.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who operates or causes to be operated a cannabis establishment
without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as the imposition of a civil penalty in the amount of
$500. Each day a cannabis establishment so operates is a separate offense or
violation.
(Ord. 1013, passed 11-1-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
131.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS AND DECENCY
      
134.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Disturbing the peace
   
130.02   Assault and battery
   
130.03   Refusal to obey
   
130.04   Loafing, loitering or lingering
   
130.05   Unauthorized duties
   
130.06   Dog fights
   
130.07   Littering
   
130.08   Spoiled provisions
   
130.09   Lounging and loitering
Vagrancy
   
130.20   Vagrants defined
   
130.21   Proof of vagrancy
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall, in the city, disturb the peace of the city by any unlawful
assembly of persons, nor disturb the peace of any neighborhood, family or
person by violence, tumultuous or offensive conduct, or by loud or unusual
noises of voices or music by profane, obscene, indecent, violent or threatening
language, or by assaulting, striking or by attempting to assault or strike, or
inviting or defying another person to fight or quarrel, or by willfully and
maliciously destroying or attempting or threatening to destroy or injure any
property belonging to another, or be engaged in a fight with another person in
this city.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.08) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   No person shall, in the city, commit any assault or assault and battery upon
the person of another.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.09) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to obey the Chief of Police or
any police officer when such officer shall require his or her aid for arresting
any person accused of a crime or suspected of a crime, or in the suppression of
any riot or unlawful assembly, or in the preventing the commission of any
offense against the city or the state.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.12) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 LOAFING, LOITERING OR LINGERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loaf, loiter or linger around or
about the city jail, or to furnish or deliver by any means whatever, any
property to any person confined in the city jail or jail exercise yard of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.13) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 547,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 UNAUTHORIZED DUTIES.
   No person not duly authorized to exercise the duties covered by law upon
police officers of this city, shall wear a police officer’s badge or a
detective’s badge or represent himself or herself as being a police officer or
detective, or attempt to exercise the duties of a police officer in the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.14) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 DOG FIGHTS.
   No person shall in the city by words, signs or otherwise set any dog or dogs
to fight or to attack any other dog or dogs, nor shall any person set, abet or
encourage any dog to fight, nor in any manner set on or encourage any dog to
attack or chase any animal that is not engaged in any malicious act; and no
owner, keeper or harborer of any such dog shall knowingly permit or allow such
dog to fight without endeavoring so far as he or she is able to prevent the
same.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.20) (Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.07 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw paper, rags, cans, bottles or
other litter on the streets, alleys or public or private grounds of the city
where it may be blown, or carried, onto and over the streets or alleys of the
city or private property.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.21) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 668,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 SPOILED PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale in the city
any spoiled, diseased or rotten meat or spoiled provisions of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.22) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 LOUNGING AND LOITERING.
   No person shall obstruct or encumber any street corner or sidewalk, or other
public place of the city, by lounging or loitering in, on or about the same,
but shall immediately move on at the request of any officer of the city or any
peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.24) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
VAGRANCY
§ 130.20 VAGRANTS DEFINED.
   The following described persons are VAGRANTS:
   (A)   Any person who wanders about in idleness, or lives in idleness who is
able to work and has no property sufficient for his or her support;
   (B)   Any person leading an idle, immoral or profligate life, who has no
property sufficient for his or her support, and who is able to work and does
not work;
   (C)   Any able bodied person with no property sufficient for his or her
support, who loafs, loiters or idles in any city, town or village, or upon a
public highway, or about any public place in this state without any regular
employment;
   (D)   Any person trading or bartering stolen property, or who unlawfully
sells or barters any spirituous, vinous or malt or other intoxicating liquors;
   (E)   Any person who shall attend or operate any illegal gambling device or
apparatus;
   (F)   Any person who shall be engaged in practicing any tricks or device to
procure money or other items of value or who shall engage in any unlawful
calling;
   (G)   Any able bodied person who shall without lawful excuse neglect or
refuse to provide for the support of his or her family;
   (H)   Any person begging in any public place or from house to house or
inducing children or others to do so; and
   (I)   Any person fraudulently representing himself or herself as a collector
of alms for a charitable institution or institutions or purpose.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.01) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 155, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 PROOF OF VAGRANCY.
   Whenever it shall appear in any prosecution under the terms of this
subchapter, that any person is a vagrant, as defined in §
130.20, then and in such case upon the introduction of such proof a prima facie
presumption that such person is a vagrant, shall be and the same is hereby
declared to be established.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.02) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 155, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
130.01 through
130.09 or failing to comply with the provisions thereof shall be deemed guilty
of a Class 2 misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.28)
   (C)   Any person convicted of being a vagrant as defined in §§
130.20 and
130.21 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 or by being compelled to work upon the streets or public highways not to
exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.03)
(Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 155, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 566,
passed - -; Ord. 578, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
Curfew
   
131.01   Loitering of minors prohibited
   
131.02   Responsibility of businesses
   
131.03   Responsibility of parents
 
   
131.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 131.01 LOITERING OF MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places,
public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots or other
unsupervised places between the hours of:
      (1)   10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., official city time, on nights before
regular school days; and
      (2)   12:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on nights when school is not in session
the following day.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a minor accompanied by
his or her parents, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody
of the minor, or where the minor is upon and emergency errand or legitimate
business directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having
the care and custody of the minor.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.01) (Ord. 201, passed - -; Ord. 430, passed - -; Ord. 520,
passed - -; Ord. 618, passed - -; Ord. 657, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF BUSINESSES.
   Any person that operates a business within the city shall not allow
teenagers subject to the curfew to remain on said business premises after
curfew hours as defined in §
131.01.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.02) (Ord. 657, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
131.99
§ 131.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having
the care and custody of a minor under the age of 18 years to knowingly permit
such minor to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public
streets, highways roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds,
public places and public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment,
vacant lots or other unsupervised places in violation of this subchapter.
However, the provisions of this section do not apply when the minor is
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an emergency errand
or legitimate business directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor. Each violation of the
provisions of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.03) (Ord. 201, passed - -; Ord. 430, passed - -; Ord. 520,
passed - -; Ord. 618, passed - -; Ord. 657, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any minor violating the provisions of §
131.01 shall be dealt with in accordance with Juvenile Court law and procedure.
      (2)   Any parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of a minor violating, or business operator or employee of any business
violating, §§
131.01 through
131.03 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9.01.04) (Ord. 201, passed - -; Ord. 430, passed - -; Ord. 520,
passed - -; Ord. 618, passed - -; Ord. 657, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Curbs and sidewalks
   
132.02   Obstruction of streets and/or alleys
   
132.03   Obstruction of sidewalks
   
132.04   Obtaining permission
Nuisances
   
132.15   Nuisances definition
   
132.16   Property found in streets and other public places
   
132.17   Removal and abatement
   
132.18   Expense made lien
   
132.19   Sale and disposition
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cross or pass over or upon any
curbing or sidewalk with any team of animals, or any wagon, automobile, truck,
tractor or other vehicle, or ride or drive thereon, except where crossings are
provided therefore, in the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.23) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND/OR ALLEYS.
   Whenever, from any cause, any street or alley of the city shall be
obstructed by a press of automobiles, trucks or other vehicles, loaded or
otherwise, Chief of Police or other police officer may give such directions in
regard to the removal of such automobiles, trucks and vehicles as in his or her
opinion may be required by the public convenience, and it shall be unlawful for
any person to refuse to obey such directions.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.25) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person receiving or delivering goods, wares or
merchandise to place or keep the same upon a sidewalk without leaving a passage
at least five feet wide; and such goods shall not be allowed to remain on such
sidewalk for a longer period than two hours, within the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.26) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 OBTAINING PERMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public ground by placing therein or thereon any building materials, or
any kind of machinery, vehicle or any article or thing; nor shall any person
remove or assist in removing any building into, along or across any street,
alley or public ground of the city, without first obtaining written permission
from the Mayor, and conforming to such restrictions and conditions as he or she
may prescribe and such regulations as are fixed by the ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.27) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
132.99
NUISANCES
§ 132.15 NUISANCES DEFINITION.
   (A)   A PUBLIC NUISANCE consists in unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to
perform a duty within the corporate limits of the city or in any public grounds
or parks belonging to the city or within one mile of the corporate limits of
the city not within another municipality, which an act or omission either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public sidewalk, public park, square,
street, alley or highway, or any public building where the public is invited to
enter; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use of
property; and which affects at the same time an entire community or
neighborhood, or any considerate number of persons, although the extent of the
annoyance or damage inflicted upon the individuals may be unequal.
   (B)   The remedies against a public nuisance in addition to those prescribed
herein shall be those prescribed by the South Dakota Code.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.01) (Ord. 566, passed - -; Ord. 578, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.16 PROPERTY FOUND IN STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall abandon, leave or place in any street, alley or public place
of the city any property of any kind; and no person shall permit any property
of any kind so abandoned, left or placed to be or remain for more than 24 hours
in any street, alley or public place of the city, adjacent to or in heretofore
and hereafter so abandoned, left or placed in any such street, alley or public
place and any property heretofore or hereafter abandoned, left or placed by any
person on any private property of which report or complaint may have reached
any bureau or department of the city, is declared to be a public nuisance and
an obstruction and a menace to the public welfare, comfort, safety and health.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.02) (Ord. 566, passed - -; Ord. 578, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.17 REMOVAL AND ABATEMENT.
   It is hereby made a duty of the Health Officer and members of the Health
Department or any member of the Police Department to report to the Chief of
Police or to the Commissioner in charge of the Street Department as to any
property so abandoned, left or placed and the Commissioner in charge of the
Street Department or the Chief of Police, shall look after the removal of such
obstruction and abatement of such nuisance as soon as possible after receiving
any such report.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.03) (Ord. 566, passed - -; Ord. 578, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
§ 132.18 EXPENSE MADE LIEN.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to take possession of any
article of property so abandoned, left or placed on any public or private
property, and if the same is believed to have any value, to keep it and make an
attempt to find the owner thereof, and to retain any such article heretofore so
taken up by it. It shall be the duty of said Department to maintain a place for
the keeping of any such article until the same shall be claimed or otherwise
disposed of and the city shall have a lien thereon for the reasonable expenses
incurred and value or cost of the time and effort necessary in taking, removing
and storing such article, and for the value of the storage and keeping thereof,
and may retain possession until any and all such liens are discharged.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.04) (Ord. 566, passed - -; Ord. 578, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
§ 132.19 SALE AND DISPOSITION.
   If any such article of property has been or is kept for 90 days or more
without being claimed, the same may be disposed of by said Department; if of no
value or slight value, it may be destroyed; if of slight value but of use to
the city, it may be turned over to the Property Department and used until
claimed and the charges hereby made a lien thereon shall be regarded as a
sufficient offset to the value of any such use; if of more than slight value,
it may be sold by said Department by public auction ten days after notice of
such sale has been given by one publication in a legal newspaper published in
the city and the city may be a bidder at such sale. If on any such sale an
amount is bid in excess of the charges or lien of the city, such excess shall
be deposited to the credit of the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.05) (Ord. 566, passed - -; Ord. 578, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or failing to
comply with the provisions thereof shall be deemed guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.28) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 566,
passed - -; Ord. 578, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS AND DECENCY
Section
   
133.01   Proper manner
   
133.02   Indecent exposure
   
133.03   Houses of ill fame
   
133.04   Unlawful sexual acts
   
133.05   Unlawful solicitation
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 PROPER MANNER.
   No person shall, in the city, conduct himself or herself in any unseemly
manner or way, or in any manner tending to degrade and unsuited to the
promotion of the morals, order, health or comfort of the inhabitants of this
city.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.06) (Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
133.99
§ 133.02 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   (A)   No person shall, in the city, appear in any public place in a state of
nudity, nor shall any person make any indecent exposure of himself or herself
or be guilty of any lewd or indecent acts, nor shall any person perform any
indecent, immoral or lewd play.
   (B)   No person shall post, publish, print, show or exhibit, or cause to be
posted, printed, published, shown or exhibited, or exposed to public grounds of
the city any lewd, indecent or obscene, picture, print photograph, lithograph
or other representation either by exposing them stationary to view or causing
them to pass before the vision of persons by moving picture machines or other
article means.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.07) (Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
133.99
§ 133.03 HOUSES OF ILL FAME.
   No person shall keep any bawdy house, house of prostitution, or house of ill
fame, or assignation within the city limits or within one mile of the outer
boundary of the city nor harbor or allow any person to be or remain in such
house or place.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.17) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL ACTS.
   No person shall frequent any bawdy house, house of ill fame or house of
prostitution or assignation, nor be an inmate or visitor of such house or
houses; nor shall any person use or occupy any room, house or building within
the city for the purpose of unlawful sexual intercourse.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.18) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 UNLAWFUL SOLICITATION.
   No person shall, within the city or within one mile of the outer boundaries
of the same, solicit, entice or urge any person to enter a house of ill fame,
prostitution or assignation, nor solicit any person to occupy any room, house,
building or other place for the purpose of unlawful sexual intercourse, nor
shall any person solicit, entice or urge any other person to engage in unlawful
sexual intercourse.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.19) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or failing to
comply with the provisions thereof shall be deemed guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.28) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 566,
passed - -; Ord. 578, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
CHAPTER 134: WEAPONS
Section
   
134.01   Dangerous weapons
   
134.02   Discharge of firearms
   
134.03   Paint balls and B.B. guns
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   No person, except officers of the law in the execution of their duties, or a
person in self defense, shall in the city draw a pistol, revolver, knife or any
other deadly or dangerous weapon upon another person.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.10) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   No person shall within the city discharge any pistol, revolver, shotgun,
rifle, air rifle or any other firearm or bow and arrow, except in the
performance of a public duty or at an authorized firing range or federal,
state, county or city sanctioned event.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.15) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 807, passed - -) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 PAINT BALLS AND B.B. GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age, within the city
limits to discharge any type of B.B. gun, B.B. rifle, B.B. pistol, or air rifle
or pistol or pellet gun or except at a federal, state, county or city
sanctioned event.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.16) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 621,
passed - -; Ord. 625, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 807, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or failing to
comply with the provisions thereof shall be deemed guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor and fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.28) (Ord. 133, passed - -; Ord. 468, passed - -; Ord. 566,
passed - -; Ord. 578, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
151.   BUILDINGS AND IMPROVEMENTS
      
152.   FLOOD PREVENTION
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Adoption
   
150.002   Purpose
   
150.003   General requirements
Premises Identification
   
150.015   General requirements
Building and Premises Maintenance
   
150.030   Responsibility
   
150.031   Enumeration
   
150.032   Open fires
   
150.033   Stacking hay, straw or other flammable material
   
150.034   Enforcement
   
150.035   Fuels burned in fireplaces, stoves and other heating appliances
Vacant Rental Residence Inspections
   
150.050   General requirements
   
150.051   Definitions
   
150.052   Purpose
   
150.053   Inspection requirement
Structure Registration Requirement
   
150.065   Purpose
   
150.066   Scope
   
150.067   Definitions
   
150.068   Registry of vacant structures
   
150.069   Registry of seasonal occupancy structures
   
150.070   Registry of repair/remodel structures
   
150.071   Registry of “for sale” structures
   
150.072   Registration requirements
   
150.073   Property maintenance and security requirements
   
150.074   Inspection fees and administrative fees
   
150.075   Fire damaged property and properties going through probate
   
150.076   Unpaid fees
   
150.077   Appeals
   
150.078   Registry nor subject to open records request
Administrative Citations
   
150.090   Purpose and intent
   
150.091   Definitions
   
150.092   Administrative citations
   
150.093   Administrative citation procedures
   
150.094   Appeal
   
150.095   Time of appeal hearing and notice
   
150.096   Appeal hearing procedures
   
150.097   Rights of parties at hearing
   
150.098   Commission actions after appeal hearing
   
150.099   Written decision; action of the Commission final
   
150.100   Judicial review
   
150.101   Administrative citation penalties assessed
   
150.102   Failure to appeal or pay administrative citation penalties
   
150.103   Administrative citations authorized
   
150.104   Civil penalty fee schedule
   
150.105   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 ADOPTION.
   A certain document, which is on file in the office of the Planning and
Zoning Administrator of the city, being marked and designated as the 2018
International Property Maintenance Code, as published by the International Code
Council, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code for
the city; for the control of property maintenance as herein provided; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms said
Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made part hereof,
as is fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes as prescribed within the subchapters of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.01.01) (Ord. 892, passed - -)
§ 150.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect, promote and enhance the welfare,
safety, health and property of the general public by prohibiting the keeping or
maintaining of properties at a variance with or inferior to the level of
maintenance of surrounding properties.
(Prior Code, § 12.01.02) (Ord. 792, passed - -; Ord. 892, passed - -)
§ 150.003 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Premises identification. Premises identification for all buildings
shall be placed in such a position as to be plainly visible and legible from
the street or road fronting the property.
   (B)   Public sidewalks. The occupant or owner of any house, place of
business or premises abutting upon any street shall be responsible for
maintaining the adjacent public sidewalk in a clean and safe condition.
   (C)   Building and premises maintenance. The owner of a building or premises
is responsible for maintaining all improvements in a manner that is not at
variance with or inferior to the level of maintenance of surrounding
properties.
   (D)   Trees overhanging public ways. The occupant or owner of any premises
abutting upon any street, road or alley shall keep all trees upon the premises
or between the premises and the center of the adjoining streets so trimmed that
no bough or branch thereof shall hang lower than eight feet above the surface
of the street, road, alley or sidewalk thereon.
   (E)   Mowing grass on premises abutting public ways. The occupant, person in
charge or owner of any lot in the city that abuts or adjoins a street or alley
that contains dedicated land that is not being utilized by the city, shall be
responsible to cut the weeds and tall grass on said unused dedicated land as if
said person owned the land. In other words, the plats in the city establish
that many streets and alleys have been dedicated to include areas wider than
actually used by the city and that, if there is any grass or weeds growing on
the unused portion of said street or alley, the adjoining or adjacent
landowners shall be responsible for cutting the grass and weeds.
   (F)   Sight obstruction of intersections. No person shall erect, place,
plant, maintain or permit to grow upon any premises abutting upon any street,
road or alley anything materially to obstruct the view between a height of 30
inches and ten feet above the street lines and a line joining points along said
street lines 50 feet from the point of intersection. This will usually be 30
feet when measured along the curb from the corner (sight triangle illustration
available at Planning and Zoning Office).
   (G)   Littering prohibited. No person may dump, deposit, drop, throw,
discard, leave, cause or permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing,
discarding or leaving of litter upon any public or private property in this
city.
(Prior Code, § 12.01.03) (Ord. 499, passed - -; Ord. 680, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 792, passed - -; Ord. 892, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
PREMISES IDENTIFICATION
§ 150.015 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All addresses shall be numbers, no script, and shall be posted on the
structure in such a way that they will be visible at night, as well as
daylight, using the following guidelines.
   (A)   Numbers shall be a contrasting color to the background that they are
attached to.
   (B)   Numbers shall be a minimum of five inches in height if the structure
is 50 feet or less from the roadway.
   (C)   Numbers shall be a minimum of seven inches in height if the structure
is from 50 feet to 200 feet from the roadway.
   (D)   Numbers shall be a minimum of ten inches in height if the structure is
from 200 feet to 300 feet from the roadway.
   (E)   Numbers shall be a minimum of 12 inches in height if the structure is
300 to 400 feet from the roadway.
   (F)   If the structure is not visible from the roadway because of terrain,
trees or other obstructions, or if the structure is more than 400 feet from the
roadway, the address numbers shall be posted on a post at the entrance of the
driveway to the structure. The numbers on the post shall be a minimum of four
inches in height and shall be visible from both sides of the approach to the
entrance. The post with the numbers shall be a minimum of four feet in height
above the ground in a visible location within 20 feet of the roadway.
   (G)   A violation of this section shall be subject to enforcement as set
forth in the administrative citation provisions of this code, §§
150.090 et seq. The Code Enforcement Officer shall give notice to the owner or
person in charge of any property that is not in compliance, by certified mail
or personal service, advising them of the violation. If the violation is not
corrected within 20 days of the date of the notice, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall be authorized to issue an administrative citation to the owner or
person in charge of the property.
(Prior Code, § 12.02.01) (Ord. 718, passed - -; Ord. 792, passed - -; Ord. 983,
passed 1-4-2021)
BUILDING AND PREMISES MAINTENANCE
§ 150.030 RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge or possession of any
buildings or premises in the city is responsible to keep or maintain such
building or premises in a manner that is in compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.01) (Ord. 579, passed - -; Ord. 681, passed - -; Ord. 692,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 792, passed - -)
§ 150.031 ENUMERATION.
   A building or premises upon which there exists one or more of the following
conditions is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance:
   (A)   Buildings that are abandoned, boarded up, partially destroyed or
partially constructed and uncompleted for more than one year without noticeable
improvement;
   (B)   Unsightly trash, garbage or refuse cans, bins, boxes, bags or other
such containers permanently stored in front yards or visible from public
streets;
   (C)   Lumber (unless it is stacked neatly and stored properly along a
building or fence), junk, trash, tires (unless mounted on rims and stored
neatly along a building or fence), debris (including grass clippings unless
they are being used for compost AND are stored immediately adjacent to a
garden), tree and branch piles (unless cut and stacked properly for use in an
approved wood-burning device) or salvage materials maintained upon any premises
which is visible from a public street, alley or adjoining property;
   (D)   Abandoned, discarded or unused furniture, stoves, sinks, toilets,
cabinets or other household fixtures or equipment stored so as to be visible at
ground level from a public alley, street or adjoining premises;
   (E)   Broken windows, doors, attic vents and underfloor vents;
   (F)   Buildings with deteriorating or peeling paint that allows the exterior
building coverings to deteriorate or to permit the effects of sun and water
penetration so as to encourage decay, dry rot and cracking;
   (G)   Building exteriors and walls which are cracked, broken, defective,
deteriorated, in disrepair or defaced;
   (H)   Fences, driveways or walkways which are cracked, broken, defective,
deteriorated, in disrepair or defaced; and any like and similar condition or
conditions;
   (I)   Any accumulation of animal feces that is permitted to exist on the
premises without being picked up and removed, or which creates noxious or
offensive odors, or which provides a breeding ground for flies and other
vectors; and
   (J)   Equipment used in a trade or business; building materials; or
stockpiled dirt, gravel or other similar material; when placed on any lot in a
residential area where there is not any construction or renovation work then
being conducted at that location.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.02) (Ord. 579, passed - -; Ord. 614, passed - -; Ord. 692,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 792, passed - -; Ord. 984, passed 1-4-
2021; Ord. 1004, passed 6-21-2021; Ord. 1022, passed 3-7-2022) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.032 OPEN FIRES.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to set or cause to be
set or allow to be set upon their premises any uncontained open fire.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.03)
   (B)   Uncontained fire defined; certain fires in fire pits authorized. An
uncontained fire referred to in division (A) above is a fire that is
intentionally burned or that is permitted to burn outdoors, and which is not in
an approved fire pit as provided herein. An approved fire pit may be an
earthen-style fire pit (buried in the ground) or an outdoor fireplace. An
approved fire pit may not exceed three feet in diameter, and the fire contained
in an approved fire pit may not have flames exceeding two feet in height above
the fire pit walls. An approved fire pit must be located not less than ten feet
from the property line of the property where it is located.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.03.01)
   (C)   Approved fire pit not to be unattended. No person in charge of a fire
that is burning in an approved fire pit shall leave said fire unattended.
However, momentary absence for a reasonably brief period of time, when the fire
is properly contained at the time it is left, shall not constitute leaving the
fire unattended.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.03.02)
   (D)   Excess smoke as a nuisance. No fire in an approved fire pit shall be
permitted to continue to burn if the smoke therefrom causes discomfort or
irritation to any person nearby, and such smoke shall be deemed a nuisance and
may be extinguished by authorities, at the property owner’s expense, if the
property owner fails to extinguish the fire after being informed that the smoke
is a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.03.03)
   (E)   Permissible materials to be burned. No person shall burn materials in
an approved fire pit other than those materials provided for herein.
Permissible materials shall be restricted to natural dry fire wood or
commercial logs. Lumber, scrap lumber, rubbish, yard waste, leaves or garbage
may not be burned in a fire pit.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.03.04)
(Ord. 236, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 842, passed 5-30-2014)
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.033 STACKING HAY, STRAW OR OTHER FLAMMABLE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or stack hay, straw or other
baled hay-like materials within the city, except as follows:
   (A)   In an area that consists of regular hay land where large bales are
normally produced every year, such as cemetery hay land or airport hay land,
baled hay may be stacked during the haying season so long as it is not kept
stacked within 250 feet of any occupied structure and is not stacked under any
overhead primary or distribution electric lines, and must be moved off the
property and out of the city by October 1.
   (B)   In an area that is zoned as industrial or agricultural, baled
materials may be kept for a period of time not to exceed eight months; and at
least once a year the site must be cleared of all hay and similar materials.
They must be in twin/single rows, not stacked, and at least ten feet in between
each twin row. Baled materials may not be kept under any overhead primary or
distribution electric lines, or within 100 feet of any occupied structure.
   (C)   Baled materials may not be kept in any manner that causes obstruction
of visibility at any intersections where a sight triangle is required under §
150.003(f).
   (D)   Small square bales of straw or hay may be used to provide shelter or
supplemental protection from weather for small animals during the winter
season, but must be removed in the spring.
   (F)   At no time shall baled materials be permitted to become infested with
rats or other vermin.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.04) (Ord. 236, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord.
1061, passed 10-2-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.034 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city shall notify the responsible party by mail or delivery of the
violation and required action. Violations of §
150.031(B), (C) and (D) shall have 20 days from the mailing date to comply. If
violations are not corrected within the time provided, the city will haul the
offending items stated in the violation notice, and will bill for the labor and
equipment used therefor at the rates set forth in the annual resolution of
fees. Such fees shall be billed to the responsible party, and if the same
remain unpaid for more than 60 days, the same may be assessed against the
property as a special assessment.
   (B)   After the first violation occurs, if the property is found in
violation of the same condition as the original violation within one year of
the original violation notice, the matter will be submitted to the City
Attorney for prosecution.
   (C)   Violations of §
150.031(E), (F) and (G) shall have one year from the mailing date to comply. If
the violations are not corrected within the time provided, the matter will be
submitted to the City Attorney for prosecution.
   (D)   Violations of §
150.031(H) shall have six months from the mailing date to comply. If the
violations are not corrected within the time provided, the matter will be
submitted to the City Attorney for prosecution.
   (E)   Violations of §
150.031 (I) shall have 20 days from the mailing date to comply. If violations
are not corrected within the time provided, enforcement will be taken through
the administrative citations provisions found in §§
150.090 et seq. If violations are not corrected after a first, second and third
offense administrative citation has been issued, written notice shall be given
to the responsible party and ten days after notice the city will cause the
offending items and materials to be removed from the property to a safe
location, all at the responsible party's expense. The items may be claimed by
the owner within 30 days of removal by first paying all administrative citation
penalties and all costs incurred in the removal, then removing all of those
items at the owner's expense. Items not claimed by the owner shall be deemed to
be abandoned.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.05) (Ord. 579, passed - -; Ord. 692, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 792, passed - -; Ord. 823, passed - -; Ord. 846, passed - -;
Ord. 985, passed 1-4-2021; Ord. 1004, passed 6-21-2021) Penalty, see § 
150.999
§ 150.035 FUELS BURNED IN FIREPLACES, STOVES AND OTHER HEATING APPLIANCES.
   Any person who shall cause any material to be burned in a fireplace, stove
or other heating appliance, whether such appliance is located inside or outside
of a structure, shall comply with the following provisions.
   (A)   Fuel burned in any fireplace, stove or other heating appliance shall
be only natural untreated wood, wood pellets, biomass pellets or other listed
fuels specifically permitted by the manufacturer’s instructions.
   (B)   The following fuels are strictly prohibited and may not be burned in
any fireplace, stove or other heating appliance:
      (1)   Wood that has been painted, varnished or coated with similar
material and/or has been pressure treated with preservatives and contains
resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood products;
      (2)   Rubbish or garbage, including but not limited to, food wastes, food
packaging and food wraps;
      (3)   Any plastic materials of any kind;
      (4)   Rubber, including tires or other synthetic rubber-like products;
and
      (5)   Newspaper, cardboard or any paper with ink or dye products;
provided, however, that starter logs and other products made from newspaper
that are designed for starting the flame shall be permitted for that use.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.06) (Ord. 848, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
VACANT RENTAL RESIDENCE INSPECTIONS
§ 150.050 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The operation of rental residential properties is a business enterprise that
entails certain responsibilities. Owners are responsible to take such
reasonable steps as are necessary to assure that the citizens of the city who
occupy such units may pursue the quiet enjoyment of the normal activities of
life in surroundings that are safe, secure and free from reasonable fears about
safety of persons and suitable for raising children.
(Prior Code, Ch. 12, Art. 7)
§ 150.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RENTAL RESIDENCE. A building or portion thereof let for rent or lease,
designed or used primarily for residential occupancy of a continued nature,
including single-family dwellings, attached or detached, and multiple-family
dwellings. It does not mean hospital units, nursing home units, or hotels or
motels, all of which shall be exempt from any requirements of this subchapter.
   VACANT. A vacant rental residence is defined as a rental residence which has
been unoccupied for a period of time lasting three continuous months or longer
and where utility service has been disconnected or else maintained at only a
minimum charge status.
(Prior Code, § 12.07.01) (Ord. 877, passed - -)
§ 150.052 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the inspection will be to ensure that the rental residence
conforms to the Building Code standard that has been adopted by the city and
not in violation of §
151.063 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 12.07.02) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -)
§ 150.053 INSPECTION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any rental residence that has been vacant as defined by §
150.051 must be inspected prior to the same being offered for occupancy to any
tenant. The owner or person in charge of the rental residence shall contact the
Planning and Zoning Administrator and request the inspection.
   (B)   The inspection shall be conducted by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator for the city. The inspection shall be focused on determining the
apparent structural integrity and general habitability of the rental residence.
The inspection shall be performed at no cost to either the property owner or
potential tenant of the property.
   (C)   If the inspection reveals deficiencies in structural integrity or
general habitability, the property shall not be occupied as a rental residence
until the deficiencies have been corrected and agreed to by the Planning and
Zoning Administrator, subject to review by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 12.07.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 877,
passed - -)
STRUCTURE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT
§ 150.065 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to help protect the health, safety
and welfare of the citizens by preventing blight, protecting property values
and preserving the integrity of neighborhoods by avoiding the creation of
nuisances and nuisance properties, thus ensuring the safe and sanitary
maintenance of dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings and the
properties on which they exist.
   (B)   The various registries will provide up to date emergency contact
information for every applicable structure, building conditions, usage and
locations for use by first responders and the Planning and Zoning Administrator
to maintain an open line of communication between the city and the property
owners.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.01) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.066 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all structures with the
corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.02) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.067 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY. Leisure, retail, multi-family residential,
office, industrial and healthcare structures for lease, lent or rent.
   EVIDENCE OF OCCUPANCY. Conditions visible from the exterior of the structure
that would lead a reasonable person to conclude that the property is currently
occupied by the owners or tenants.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Conditions visible from the exterior of the structure
that would lead a reasonable person to conclude that the property is not
currently occupied by the owners or tenants. Such conditions shall include, but
are not limited to, overgrown and/or dead vegetation; accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers, phone books and/or mail; past due utility
notices; accumulation of trash, junk and/or debris; the absence of basic
household furnishings and/or personal items consistent with occupied
structures; statements and observations by neighbors, utility personnel,
delivery agents or other government employees that the property is vacant; or
evidence of the property being an attractive nuisance or harborage for rodents,
pests or vermin. Disconnected or discontinued public utilities shall be
considered EVIDENCE OF VACANCY.
   “FOR SALE” STRUCTURE. A structure that is currently listed for sale, either
privately or as a listing with a real estate broker, which is otherwise not
currently inhabited.
   NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARD. Conditions that are present on a simple majority of
properties within a 500-foot radius of the subject property which indicate a
standard that properties should be maintained to in order to preserve
neighborhood property values. Vacant and/or nuisance properties shall not be
considered in the simple majority calculation.
   NUISANCE PROPERTY. An occupied or unoccupied property that is in violation
of one or more nuisance ordinances of the city.
   OWNER. Any person, trustee, power of attorney, partnership, co-partnership,
business, association, corporation, fiduciary or any other imaginable entity
having a legal or equitable title or claim, or any interest in, the piece of
property immediately in question.
   REPAIR/REMODEL STRUCTURE. A structure that is currently undergoing repairs
and/or remodeling such that occupancy is generally limited to workers
performing the repairs and/or remodeling.
   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY. One-family and two-family dwellings for lease,
let or rent, to include residences inhabited by non-owner family members.
Triplexes, four-plexes and apartment complexes shall be considered commercial
rental properties.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. A person, trustee, power of attorney, partnership, co-
partnership, business, association, corporation, fiduciary or any other
imaginable entity, other than the owner, that has taken responsibility for the
piece of property immediately in question.
   SEASONAL OCCUPANCY STRUCTURE. A structure that is occupied only seasonally
during the year but is not regularly occupied year-round, and is at all times
fully furnished with the intent to reoccupy. Utility service has been either
disconnected or else maintained at only a minimum charge status.
   VACANT COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE. A structure whose historical usage has been of
a business or commercial nature (office, retail, restaurant, tavern, theater,
warehouse and the like), which is not regularly occupied by one or more persons
at least four times per month in the conduct of business. Accessory structures
to a commercial structure are not required to separately register; only the
principal structure on the property must register if it is a VACANT STRUCTURE.
If a property qualifies as a seasonal occupancy structure, a repair/remodel
structure or a “for sale” structure, it is not a VACANT STRUCTURE for purposes
of this subchapter.
   VACANT RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A structure that is designed for residential occupancy, which is
vacant.
      (2)   For purposes of determining whether a residential structure is
vacant, the following guidelines shall apply.
         (a)   If any person is residing in the residential structure at least
four days per month, consistently month after month, including sleeping
overnight, the structure is not vacant.
         (b)   If any person is regularly going into and checking the
residential structure, but is not actually residing therein at least four days
per month, the structure is vacant.
         (c)   If a property qualifies as a seasonal occupancy structure, a
repair/remodel structure or a “for sale” structure, it is not a vacant
structure for purposes of this subchapter.
         (d)   Accessory structures to a residential structure are not required
to separately register; only the principal residential structure on the
property must register if it is a vacant structure.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.03) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.068 REGISTRY OF VACANT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the city a registry of vacant structures.
   (B)   Owners of real property are required to register all vacant structures
within 30 days of the vacancy. This excludes rental properties in between
rentals which do not meet the definition of evidence of vacancy as defined §
150.067.
   (C)   Structures that are vacant at the time of the enactment of this
subchapter must register within 30 days after notification of the enactment of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.04) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.069 REGISTRY OF SEASONAL OCCUPANCY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the city a registry of seasonal occupancy
structures.
   (B)   Owners of real property are required to register all seasonal
occupancy structures within 30 days of the vacancy.
   (C)   Structures that are not currently inhabited which qualify as a
seasonal occupancy structure at the time of the enactment of this subchapter
must register within 30 days after notification of the enactment of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.05) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.070 REGISTRY OF REPAIR/REMODEL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the city a registry of repair/remodel
structures.
   (B)   Owners of real property are required to register all repair/remodel
structures within 30 days of the property’s occupancy being limited to repair
and remodel work
   (C)   Structures that are not currently inhabited other than by workers as a
repair/remodel structure at the time of the enactment of this subchapter must
register within 30 days after notification of the enactment of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.06) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.071 REGISTRY OF “FOR SALE” STRUCTURES.
   (A)   There is hereby created in the city a registry of “for sale”
structures.
   (B)   Owners of real property are required to register all “for sale”
structures within 30 days of the property being listed for sale.
   (C)   A real estate broker that has a “for sale” structure listed for sale
may, as the owner’s agent, register that property for their client within 30
days of signing a sales contract. Upon notification by the city that an owner
has failed to register a “for sale” structure that is listed with a real estate
company, the listing real estate company may register that property with the
property owner’s current contact information. Fees charged for failure to
register and any subsequent fines or penalties shall be the responsibility of
the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.07) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.072 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Owners who are required to register their properties pursuant to this
subchapter shall submit a completed structure registration form provided by the
city containing, at minimum, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the owner of the property;
      (2)   A mailing address where mail may be sent that will be acknowledged
as received by the owner;
      (3)   The name of a responsible party for the care and control of the
property;
      (4)   The designation of the type of structure being registered: vacant;
seasonal occupancy; repair/remodel; or “for sale”;
      (5)   A current address, phone number, fax and e-mail (if fax and e-mail
addresses are available) where communications may be sent that will be
acknowledged as received by the owner or responsible party for the care and
control of the property. If certified mail/return receipt requested is sent to
the address and the mail is returned marked “refused” or “unclaimed”, or if
ordinary mail sent to the address is returned for whatever reason, then such
occurrence shall be prima facie proof that the responsible party has failed to
comply with this requirement; and
      (6)   The structure registration form shall also contain, directly above
the signature lines, a statement of acknowledgment and acceptance of the city’s
property maintenance requirements. The statement of acknowledgment and
acceptance shall serve as notice for any abatement actions the city may deem
necessary to take against said property, and that the costs of abatement shall
be billed to that property owner. Upon the owner’s failure to satisfy that bill
within 60 days, the costs of abatements shall be considered an outstanding bill
and will be required to be satisfied prior to any city service being activated
or transferred regarding that property, or the same may be assessed against the
property as a special assessment.
   (B)   Annual registrations are due by May 31 of each year or within 30 days
of the structure becoming subject to this subchapter.
   (C)   Annual registration that is timely done shall not be charged a
registration fee.
 
   (D)   (1)   Where the owner of a structure required to be registered under
this subchapter has failed to register that property by the May 31 deadline, a
late registration fee shall be administered by using the following scale:
 
Date                           Residential Property Commercial Property
Up to May 31                   No fee               No fee
Between June 1 and June 30     $275                 $550
Between July 1 and July 31     $300                 $600
Between August 1 and August 31 $325                 $650
 
      (2)   Any fees not paid by August 31 shall be subject to collection under
any remedy authorized by law.
   (E)   If at any time the information contained in the registration form is
no longer valid, the property owner or his or her agent shall file a new
registration form containing current information within 30 days. There shall be
no fee to update the current owner’s information.
   (F)   If at any time the condition and use of the property has changed such
that it is no longer required to be registered under the provisions of this
subchapter, the property owner shall notify the Code Enforcement Officer, in
writing, of such changes which will justify the removal of the property from
the appropriate registry.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.08) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.073 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE AND SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this subchapter shall be maintained to be
consistent with the neighborhood standard.
   (B)   Properties subject to this subchapter shall be kept free of: tall
vegetation more than six inches high; vegetation growth between sidewalk and/or
driveway flags or from cracks in the pavement; dry brush; dead vegetation;
trash; junk; debris; building materials; rodent harborage; any accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers, notices (except those required by federal, state
or local law); discarded items including, but not limited to, furniture,
clothing, large and small appliances, printed material, signage, containers,
equipment, construction materials; or any illegal outside storage of vehicles
or vehicle parts.
   (C)   Properties subject to this subchapter shall be landscaped and properly
maintained. Landscaping includes, but is not limited to, grass, ground covers,
bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark shall be
maintained in an appropriate manner. Permissible landscaping does not include
bare soils or dirt, weeds, unclean gravel, broken concrete, asphalt, decomposed
materials, exposed plastic sheeting, carpet or any similar material.
   (D)   Pools, spas and other water features shall be kept in working order or
winterized to ensure that water remains clear and free of pollutants and
debris, or drained and kept dry and free of debris to prevent the breeding of
airborne pests.
   (E)   Properties subject to this subchapter shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons. Secure manner
includes, but not limited to, the closure and locking of windows, doors (walk-
through, sliding and garage), gates and any other opening of such size that it
may allow a child to access the interior of the property and/or structure(s).
   (F)   Commercial buildings which exhibit evidence of vacancy shall be
maintained as to give the appearance of evidence of occupancy, to include:
      (1)   Maintaining the exterior of the property in good order including
cleaned windows, a lit interior at night with the view into the first floor to
be easily viewed by law enforcement officers to maintain security on the
premises, and facade materials maintained in a good state of repair including
no peeling paint, missing mortar, rusted metal and the like. This provision
shall not be construed to prohibit the use of a normal curtain or shade inside
the windows to obstruct the visibility of personal property inside the
structure. The lighting requirement can be met by using battery operated string
lighting; and
      (2)   All first floor windows installed with clean solid glass and all
upper windows shall have glass, secure-vue, plexi-glass or painted one-half-
inch plywood (not particle board) installed and secured within each window
opening.
   (G)   Sidewalks shall be maintained free of hazardous conditions to include,
but not limited to, overhanging tree branches, brush encroachments into the
walkway, volunteer vegetation, broken concrete, sunken concrete, dirt or
debris.
   (H)   Except as expressly provided herein, properties that are subject to
this subchapter shall comply with the minimum exterior provisions of the most
recent edition of the International Property Maintenance Code adopted by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.09) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019; Ord. 988, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 150.074 INSPECTION FEES AND ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   (A)   For each notice of violation of any provisions of this subchapter, the
Code Official is hereby authorized to charge an inspection fee of $50 to be
assessed against the property/owner to offset the costs incurred by the city in
responding to telephone calls, complaints, inquiries, site visits, owner
contacts and the monitoring of the site.
   (B)   Structures that are subject to this subchapter that are found open,
are open or exposed to the elements, unsecured or found to be easily accessible
shall be subject to entry by the Code Official in order to ensure that the
property has not become an attractive nuisance and to ensure that the structure
is locked and/or secured. The owner of the property shall be charged a fee of
$50 to offset the cost incurred by the city in contacting the owner or
responsible party to secure the property. If the owner and/or responsible party
cannot be contacted by means provided on the registration form, or does not
secure the property within 48 hours of notification, the Code Official shall
cause the deficiency to be corrected. The owner shall be responsible for the
cost incurred by the city in securing the property.
   (C)   Inspection fees, administrative fees and securing fees shall be
documented in the registry of structures and billed to that property owner as
deemed necessary by the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.10) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.075 FIRE DAMAGED PROPERTY AND PROPERTIES GOING THROUGH PROBATE.
   (A)   Where a building or structure has been damaged by fire, or is not
currently occupied and is being administered as part of a probate estate, the
property shall be registered with the city.
   (B)   All contact information shall be supplied on the registration form as
if it were a typical registration.
   (C)   The city must be notified within 30 days of the settlement of the
probate estate with the plans for the renovation, sale or reuse of the
structure.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.11) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.076 UNPAID FEES.
   Upon the owner’s failure to pay a bill pursuant to this subchapter within 60
days after billing, the costs and fees shall be subject to collection or any
remedy authorized by law. In addition, if city utilities are not actively in
use on the property at the time the bill becomes more than 60 days delinquent,
the unpaid bill must be satisfied prior to city utilities being turned on to
the property.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.12) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.077 APPEALS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Appeal Committee, which shall have
original jurisdiction to decide appeals under this subchapter. The Appeal
Committee shall be made up of the members of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (B)   Any person who has been assessed a fee or who has received notice of
enforcement under this subchapter shall have the right to appeal to the Appeal
Committee.
   (C)   Appeals must be in writing and must be filed with the Planning and
Zoning Officer within 30 days of the date of the notice to them that they had
been assessed a fee or other would incur other enforcement action pursuant to
this subchapter.
   (D)   The appeal will be heard and considered by the Appeal Committee within
60 days of the filing of the appeal. The appellant shall be given notice of the
time, date and place of the hearing at least ten days prior to the hearing.
   (E)   The appellant may appear in person, with counsel at his or her own
expense if he or she so chooses, to present their reasons why the fee should
not be collected or the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
   (F)   The Appeal Committee shall issue its decision within ten days.
   (G)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Committee shall
have the right to appeal to the City Council.
   (H)   Appeals to the City Council must be in writing and must be filed with
the City Finance Officer within ten days of the decision by the Appeal
Committee.
   (I)   The appeal will be heard and considered by the City Council, in
executive session, within 60 days of the filing of the appeal. The appellant
shall be given notice of the time, date and place of the hearing at least ten
days prior to the hearing.
   (J)   The appellant may appear in person, with counsel at his or her own
expense if he or she so chooses, to present his or her reasons why the decision
of the Appeal Committee should not be upheld.
   (K)   The City Council shall issue its decision within ten days, which
decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.13) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 150.078 REGISTRY NOR SUBJECT TO OPEN RECORDS REQUEST.
   Pursuant to SDCL § 1-27-1.5(8) and (22), the City Council finds that public
disclosure of the information contained within any registry under this
subchapter, would create a substantial likelihood of endangering public safety
or property. Therefore, each registry under this subchapter, and all
registration forms and information submitted to any such registry, shall not be
open to inspection and copying and listings of structures within any registry
pursuant to this subchapter shall not be open to inspection and copying, as
such disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.14) (Ord. 927, passed 5-6-2019)
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
§ 150.090 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Enforcement of the city's Code is an important public service and is vital
to the protection of the public's health, safety, and welfare. Because life and
safety issues may be regulated through an administrative enforcement process,
penalties for a violation should be enhanced. The city has determined that
there is a need for alternative methods of comprehensive code enforcement using
both administrative and judicial remedies.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES. Administrative citations and civil
penalties as contained in this subchapter.
   CIVIL PENALTY. The administrative civil penalty assessed and all costs
incurred by the city from the first discovery of the violations until
compliance is achieved. It includes, but is not limited to, staff time and
expense in inspecting the property, sending notices, preparing reports and
files.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any city employee or agent of the city with the
authority to enforce any provision of this Code and issue notice of violations
or administrative citations.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any person(s) in charge of the premises or location, or
the person(s) responsible for the event or incident, and includes the
following:
      (1)   The person(s) who own the property where the violation exists;
      (2)   The person(s) in charge of the premises where the violation exists;
      (3)   The person(s) using the premises when the violation exists;
      (4)   If any of the above is a minor, a parent or guardian of the minor
shall be responsible party; and
      (5)   If any of the above is a business entity, the manager or on-site
supervisor where the violation exists.
   ROLLING 12-MONTH PERIOD. Any 12 consecutive months following a violation.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.092 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of the Code may be issued an
administrative citation by a Code Enforcement Officer as provided for in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Each day in which a violation of this Code continues shall constitute
a separate violation.
   (C)   A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative
citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer and shall be payable directly
to the City Finance Officer.
   (D)   Penalties assessed by an administrative citation shall be collected in
accordance with the schedule of civil penalties.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.093 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A Code Enforcement Officer or designee may issue an administrative
citation to a responsible party as described in this subchapter. The citation
shall be on forms approved by the city.
   (B)   The responsible party, over the age of majority, shall sign the
administrative citation upon receipt. If the responsible party refuses or fails
to sign the administrative citation, the Code Enforcement Officer or designee
shall note such thereon. If no one over the age of 18 can be located at the
property, the administrative citation may be posted in a conspicuous place near
the entrance of the property and a copy subsequently mailed to the responsible
party.
   (C)   If the responsible party is not an individual, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall attempt to issue the owners registered agent an administrative
citation. If the owner or the registered agent is unable to be located, the
administrative citation may be issued in the name of entity and given to an
occupant, manager, or onsite supervisor. A copy of the administrative citation
shall also be mailed to the entity, owner, or owner's agent of record.
   (D)   If the Code Enforcement Officer cannot locate a responsible party, the
administrative citation shall be mailed to the responsible party. The city
shall mail the citation by certified mail to the address of the owner of the
property and/or owner at the address listed in the office of the Tripp County
Director of Equalization, and such action by the city shall meet any notice
requirement of this subchapter. The failure of any responsible party to receive
notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.094 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person who wishes to appeal an administrative citation is referred
to as the APPELLANT.
   (B)   Appeals should be commenced by filing a written notice of appeal with
the office for the Code Enforcement Officer either in person or postmarked
within 15 days of receiving the citation. The written notice of appeal shall be
printed legibly or typed and contain the following information:
      (1)   The reasons the appellant believes the citation is objectionable,
incorrect, or illegal;
      (2)   The amount involved and the time during which it occurred;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the appellant;
      (4)   The number of the citation being appealed, if applicable;
      (5)   A statement indicating whether the appellant desires the
administrative appeal hearing to be open or closed to the public. All
administrative appeal hearings are presumed to be open to the public. If either
party requests a hearing that is closed to the public, the party requesting the
closed hearing must present good cause to the Planning and Zoning Commission
that the public interest in having an open hearing is outweighed by the privacy
interest involved in a particular case or that a closed hearing is legally
required based upon the nature of the evidence to be presented at the
administrative appeal hearing;
      (6)   If the appellant is to be represented by a legal representative,
the name, address, and telephone number of the representative; and
      (7)   The signature of the appellant, legal representative, and/or
corporate agent.
   (C)   At the time of filing the notice of appeal, the appellant shall pay an
appeal filing fee of $50 to the city. Failure to pay the appeal filing fee
shall result in the appeal being dismissed.
   (D)   If the appellant complies with the jurisdictional requirements for an
appeal, then the city will take no further action to enforce the penalty until
the Planning and Zoning Commission renders a final decision. However, the
provisions for prior notice and hearing may be dispensed with when, in the
opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer, immediate action is necessary to
summarily abate a dangerous condition on public or private property or there is
an imminent threat to life or safety on public or private property. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall take only such action as is reasonably necessary to
summarily abate the danger, and then the city will take no further action to
enforce the penalty until the hearing examiner renders a final decision.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Officer, or designee, shall immediately deliver a
copy of the appeal to the City Attorney who will act as legal counsel.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.095 TIME OF APPEAL HEARING AND NOTICE.
   A public hearing, or a closed hearing if the Planning and Zoning Commission
determines it is necessary, shall be held on all appeals within 30 days after
the filing of the appeal, unless a later date is scheduled by the Planning and
Zoning Commission upon a showing of good cause why the matter should be
scheduled beyond that date. The City Attorney's office shall cause written
notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing to be served upon the
appellant by personal service or certified mail to the address set forth in the
notice of appeal at least 15 days before the hearing date. Simultaneously, the
notice of hearing may be sent by first class mail. If the notice of hearing is
sent by certified mail and returned unsigned, then service shall be deemed
effective pursuant to first class mail, provided the notice of hearing sent by
first class mail is not returned.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.096 APPEAL HEARING PROCEDURES.
   The following rules shall govern the procedures for an administrative
hearing.
   (A)   Hearings and administrative appeals shall be governed by the rules of
civil procedure and the rules of evidence as set forth in the South Dakota
Codified Laws (SDCL).
   (B)   Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation administered
by the Chairman of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   The city bears the burden of proof at the hearing by a preponderance
of the evidence.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.097 RIGHTS OF PARTIES AT HEARING.
   The appellant, the Code Enforcement Officer, and any other party to an
appeal shall have these rights:
   (A)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issue of
the hearing;
   (B)   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
   (C)   To cross examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
   (D)   To rebut evidence;
   (E)   To subpoena witnesses to appear and give testimony on that party's
behalf or to produce records, books, papers, and documents relating to any
matter related to the hearing. Any application for a subpoena shall be
submitted to the Chairman of the Planning and Zoning Commission for
consideration at least ten days in advance of the hearing. The Chairman shall
not unreasonably refuse to issue the requested subpoena. Any subpoena must be
issued and served no later than five days before the scheduled time of the
hearing. All costs related to the subpoena, including the witness fee and
mileage fee at the rate provided by statute, SDCL Ch. 19-5, shall be paid by
the party requesting the subpoena;
   (F)   Any party who fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive the
right to a hearing and the adjudication of the issues related to the hearing,
provided that proper notice of the hearing has been provided.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.098 COMMISSION ACTIONS AFTER APPEAL HEARING.
   After each appeal hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall perform
the following:
   (A)   Make written findings of fact and conclusions of law;
   (B)   Based upon the written findings, sustain, remand for further hearing
or action, or rescind the administrative citation. The Planning and Zoning
Commission has the discretion to waive the payment of any late penalty fee.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.099 WRITTEN DECISION; ACTION OF THE COMMISSION FINAL.
   A written report of the decision, including findings of fact and conclusions
of law, shall be served either in person or by certified mail upon the
appellant within 15 working days from the date the appeal hearing is concluded.
The city and the appellant shall bear their own respective costs of the appeal
proceeding. The decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be final.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.100 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   The final decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission may be subject to
judicial review as provided by law. If judicial review has been commenced by
the aggrieved party within 30 days after the final decision has been entered,
or as otherwise provided by applicable South Dakota law, the city will take no
further action to enforce the penalty until the civil action is completed with
the exception of those matters which require immediate abatement for protection
of the safety and health of the public, in which case the city will apply to
the court where the appeal has been filed seeking authority to proceed
forthwith with abatement while the appeal is pending.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.101 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PENALTIES ASSESSED.
   (A)   Any civil penalties assessed shall be payable to the city within 20
days from the date of the administrative citation.
   (B)   Payment of the civil penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct
the violation nor shall it bar further enforcement by the city. If the
responsible party fails to correct the violation, subsequent administrative
citations may be issued for the same violations. The amount of the civil
penalty shall increase at a rate as specified in this subchapter.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.102 FAILURE TO APPEAL OR PAY ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PENALTIES.
   The failure of any person to file a timely appeal or pay the civil penalties
within the time specified on the citation shall constitute an irrebutable
presumption that a violation has occurred. Failure to pay may result in a Class
II misdemeanor citation and/or the City Attorney filing legal proceedings in
Magistrate or Circuit Court. The city may pursue any other legal remedy
available to collect the civil penalty or correct the violation.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.103 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS AUTHORIZED.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be authorized to issue administrative
citations under the following provisions of this code:
   (A)   All violations of this chapter;
   (B)   §
132.15 regarding public nuisances;
   (C)   §
91.02 regarding inoperable vehicles;
   (D)   §
154.437(B) regarding alternate off-street parking surfaces;
   (E)   §
150.015 regarding premises identification.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020; Ord. 980, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 150.104 CIVIL PENALTY FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Civil penalties may be cited under this chapter, although criminal
enforcement is not prohibited.
   (B)   The civil penalties for the same violation within any rolling 12-month
period shall be as follows:
      (1)   First violation: $50;
      (2)   Second violation: $100;
      (3)   Third violation: $200.
   (C)   Failure to pay an administrative citation fee within the time
permitted, will result in an increase of $5 per day of penalty, not to exceed a
total of $500, per citation issued.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.105 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The procedures established in this subchapter are in addition to other legal
remedies established by laws, which may be pursued to address violations of the
Code. The city is enabled to established policies and procedures to carry out
this subchapter.
(Ord. 966, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
150.032 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and shall be subject to
punishment as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.03.05)
   (C)   Any person who burns any material or fuel in violation of §
150.035 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and shall upon conviction be
subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 12.06.06)
   (D)   In the event that it is determined that the residence is in violation
of the Building Code standard adopted by the city or §
151.063 of this code of ordinances, the enforcement process detailed in §
151.058 of this code of ordinances will then be followed.
(Prior Code, § 12.07.04)
(Ord. 236, passed - -; Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 842, passed 5-30-2014; Ord. 848, passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDINGS AND IMPROVEMENTS
Section
Building Codes
   
151.001   Adoption
   
151.002   IBC revisions
   
151.003   IRC revisions
   
151.004   Building permits and building permit fees
   
151.005   Rights and obligations not affected
   
151.006   Property
   
151.007   Minimum utilities services required to inhabit any structure or
facility
Fire Zones
   
151.020   Establishment of fire zones
   
151.021   Types of construction
   
151.022   Fire resistance rating requirements
   
151.023   Parking restrictions
Filling Stations
   
151.035   Prohibited location
   
151.036   Written application
   
151.037   Built to meet specifications
   
151.038   Service facilities
   
151.039   Granting of license
   
151.040   Enforcement of regulations
Dangerous Buildings
   
151.055   Purpose
   
151.056   Scope
   
151.057   Alterations, additions and repairs
   
151.058   Enforcement
   
151.059   Abatement of dangerous buildings
   
151.060   Violations
   
151.061   Inspection of work
   
151.062   Board of Appeals
   
151.063   Dangerous building
   
151.064   Notices and orders of City Code Enforcement Officer
   
151.065   Recordation of notice and order
   
151.066   Repair, vacation and demolition
   
151.067   Notice to vacate
   
151.068   Appeal
   
151.069   Effect of failure to appeal
   
151.070   Scope of hearing on appeal
   
151.071   Staying of order under appeal
   
151.072   Procedure for conduct of hearing appeals
   
151.073   Form of notice of hearing
   
151.074   Subpoenas
   
151.075   Conduct of hearing
   
151.076   Method and form of decision
   
151.077   Compliance
   
151.078   Extension of time to perform work
   
151.079   Interference with repair or demolition work prohibited
   
151.080   Performance of work of repair or demolition
   
151.081   Repair and Demolition Fund
   
151.082   Account of expense, filing of report; contents
   
151.083   Report transmitted to Council; set for hearing
   
151.084   Protests and objections
   
151.085   Hearing of protests
   
151.086   Personal obligations or special assessment
   
151.087   Contested assessment
   
151.088   Authority for installment payment of assessments with interest
   
151.089   Lien of assessment
   
151.090   Report to Assessor and Tax Collector
   
151.091   Certified copy of assessment
   
151.092   Collection of assessment; penalties for foreclosure
   
151.093   Repayment of Repair and Demolition Fund
Moving Buildings
   
151.105   Permit process
   
151.106   Complying with provisions
   
151.107   Protecting paved streets
   
151.108   Damage to property
   
151.109   Stand still time limit
Temporary Buildings
   
151.120   Commercial temporary buildings
   
151.121   Maintain or remove
   
151.122   Removal of transparent materials
   
151.123   Board of Adjustment
Grading and Erosion Control
   
151.135   Introduction; purpose; application
   
151.136   Definitions
   
151.137   Grading permit(s)
   
151.138   Grading and erosion control plan
   
151.139   Final stabilization
   
151.140   Additional requirements
   
151.141   Stop work order
   
151.142   Fees
Inspection Warrants
   
151.155   General requirements
   
151.156   Definitions
   
151.157   Purpose
   
151.158   Inspection requirements
   
151.159   Enforcement
   
151.160   Board of Appeals
   
151.161   Appeal
   
151.162   Effect of failure to appeal
   
151.163   Scope of hearing on appeal
   
151.164   Staying of order under appeal
   
151.165   Procedure for conduct of hearing appeals
   
151.166   Form of notice of hearing
   
151.167   Subpoenas
   
151.168   Conduct of hearing
   
151.169   Method and form of decision
   
151.170   Compliance
 
   
151.999   Penalty
BUILDING CODES
§ 151.001 ADOPTION.
   A certain document, which is on file in the office of the Planning and
Zoning Administrator of the city, being marked and designated as the most
recent editions of the 2018 International Building Code and the International
Residential Code, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., be and
are hereby adopted as the Building Code for the city; for the control of
building and structures as herein provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Building Code
are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as is fully set out in
this subchapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes,
prescribed within this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.01) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 741, passed - -; Ord. 873,
passed - -; Ord. 891, passed - -; Ord. 997, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.002 IBC REVISIONS.
   The most recent edition of the International Building Code (IBC) is adopted
with the following amendments or additions:
IBC Chapter 1, Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the
BUILDING CODE of the City of Winner, South Dakota, hereinafter referred to as
“this code”.
Electrical. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 101.4.1 Gas. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 101.4.2 Mechanical. The provisions of the most recent
Edition of the Uniform Mechanical Code or International Mechanical Code shall
apply to the installation, alteration, repairs, and replacement of mechanical
systems.
IBC Chapter 1, Section 101.4.3 Plumbing. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 101.4.4 Property Maintenance. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 101.4.5 Fire Prevention. The provisions of the most
recent Edition of the Uniform Fire Code or International Fire Code shall apply
to matters affecting or relating to structures, processes and premises from the
hazard of fire and explosion arising from the storage, handling or use of
structures, materials or devices; from conditions hazardous to life, property
or public welfare.
IBC Chapter 1, Section 101.4.6 Energy. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 101.4.7 Existing Buildings. The provisions of the most
recent Edition of the International Existing Building Code shall apply to
matters governing the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition to and
relocation of existing buildings.
IBC Chapter 1, Section 103.1 Building Official. The City Council shall hire a
Planning and Zoning Administrator who shall be authorized to enforce the
provisions of this code, who shall function under the direction of the Public
Safety Commissioner, and who shall assist and report from the Planning and
Zoning Commission to the City Council.
IBC Chapter 1, Section 103.2 Appointment. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 103.3 Deputies. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 105.1 Required. Any owner or authorized agent who
intends to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the
occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter,
repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing
system, the installation of which is regulated by this code, or to cause any
such work to be done, shall first make application to the Building Official and
obtain the required permit. The Building Official shall have the authority to
exempt minor work from the permitting requirement.
IBC Chapter 1, Section 105.1.1 Annual Permit. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 105.1.2 Annual Permit Records. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
   IBC Chapter 1, Section 105.2. Building permits shall not be required for the
following. Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of
this city.
      1.   Retaining walls, which are 4 feet or less in height measured from
the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a
surcharge.
      2.   Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not
exceed 5,000 gallons and the ratio or height to diameter or width does not
exceed 2 to 1.
      3.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work.
      4.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
      5.   Above-ground prefabricated swimming pools.
      6.   Swings and other playground equipment.
      7.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project
more than 54 inches from the exterior wall and do not require additional
support.
      8.   Movable cases, counters, and partitions not over five (5) feet nine
(9) inches in height.
   9.   DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
   10.   Shingling, re-roofing of existing one- and two-family dwellings,
siding and replacing windows and doors.
   11.   Gutters, downspouts, and storm windows.
   12.   Garbage can racks.
   13.   Replacement of decks, sidewalks, and driveways where no change in the
dimensions or materials is involved.
IBC Chapter 1, Section 105.2 Exception Certain Concrete Pads Exempt from Fee.
Concrete pads exclusively for placement of garbage cans, garbage can racks,
approved garbage disposal containers, or dumpsters, shall require a building
permit which shall be issued without a fee.
IBC Chapter 1, Section 108.3 Temporary Power. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 110.3.2 Concrete Slab or Under Floor Inspection. DELETED
FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 110.3.3 Lowest Floor Elevation. DELETED FROM THIS
ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 110.3.5 Lath, Gypsum Board, and Gypsum Panel Product
Inspections. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 1, Section 110.3.8 Energy Efficiency Inspections. DELETED FROM THIS
ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 3, Section 305.2 Group E, Day Care Facilities. The use of a
building or structure, or portion thereof, for educational, supervision, or
personal care services for more than 10 children older than two and one half
(2-1/2) years of age, shall be classified as a group E occupancy.
IBC Chapter 10, Section 10.11 Handrails Exceptions.
   3.   In group R-3 occupancies, a change in elevation of less than three (3)
risers at an entrance or egress door does not require handrails.
   4.   Changes in room elevations of three (3) or fewer risers within dwelling
units and sleeping units in group R-2 and R-3 occupancies do not require
handrails.
IBC Chapter 11, Section 1104.5 Location. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 16, Section 1612.2 Design and Construction. DELETED FROM THIS
ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 16, Section 16.12.3 Establishment of Flood Hazard Areas. DELETED
FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 16, Section 1612.4 Flood Hazard Documentation. DELETED FROM THIS
ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 17, Section 1705.16 Exterior Insulations and Finish Systems.
DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IBC Chapter 18, Section 1809.5 Frost Protection. Except where otherwise
protected from frost, foundations and other permanent supports of buildings and
structures shall be protected from frost by one or more of the following
methods: (1) extending below the frost line of the locality; (2) construction
in accordance with ASCE 32; and (3) erecting on solid rock. Exception: free-
standing buildings meeting all of the following conditions shall not be
required to be protected: (1) assigned a Risk Category I; (2) area of 600
square feet or less for light-frame construction or 400 square feet or less for
other than light-frame construction; (3) eave height of ten feet or less.
Shallow foundations shall not bear on frozen soils unless frozen condition is
of permanent character.
IBC Chapter 27 Electrical. The provisions of the most recent Edition of the
National Electric Code shall apply to the installation of electrical systems.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.02) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 741, passed - -; Ord. 873,
passed - -; Ord. 891, passed - -; Ord. 997, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.003 IRC REVISIONS.
   The most recent edition of the International Residential Code (IRC) Chapters
1 through 24 and 44 is adopted with the following amendments or additions:
Climatic and Geographical Design Criteria
City of Winner, SD
Climatic and Geographical Design Criteria
City of Winner, SD
Ground snow load (psf - pounds per square foot) 35 psf
Wind speed (mph)                                115
Seismic design category                         A
Subject to damage from:
   Decay                                     None to slight
   Frost line depth                          42 inches
   Termite                                   None to slight
   Weathering                                Severe
Winter design temperature (°F)                 -11°F
Ice shield underlayment required                Yes
Flood hazards                                   NFIP
Air freezing index                              2,500
Mean annual temperature (°F)                   49°F
 
IRC Chapter 1, Section R101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the
Residential Building Code of the City of Winner, Tripp County, South Dakota,
hereinafter referred to as “This Code”.
IRC Chapter 1, Section R102.4 Referenced Codes and Standards. The code and
standards referenced in this code shall be considered part of the requirements
of the code to the prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences
occur between provisions of this code and referenced codes and standards, the
provisions of this code shall apply. References to electrical systems shall use
of the requirements of the most current Edition of the National Electrical
Code. References to the International Mechanical Code shall allow use of the
most current Edition of the Uniform Mechanical Code. References to the
International Plumbing Code shall allow use of the most current Edition of the
South Dakota Standard Plumbing Code. The Administrative Rules of the South
Dakota Department or Environment and Natural Resources shall apply to private
sewage disposal systems. References to the International Fire Code shall allow
use of the most recent Edition of the Uniform Fire Code.
IRC Chapter 1, Section R102.7 Existing Structures. The legal occupancy of any
structure existing on the date of adoption of this code shall be permitted to
continue without change, except as is specifically covered in this code, the
Winner City Ordinance, the International Property Maintenance Code, or the
International Fire Code, or as is deemed necessary by the Building Official for
the general safety and welfare of the occupants and the public.
IRC Chapter 1, Section R103.1 Building Official. The City Council shall hire a
Planning and Zoning Administrator who shall be authorized to enforce the
provisions of this code, who shall function under the direction of the Public
Safety Commissioner, and who shall assist and report from the Planning and
Zoning Commission to the City Council.
IRC Chapter 1, Section R104.10.1 Flood Hazard Areas. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IRC Chapter 1, Section R105.2. Building permits shall not be required for the
following. Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of
this city.
   1.   Retaining walls, which are 4 feet or less in height measured from the
bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge.
   2.   Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the capacity does not
exceed 5,000 gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or width does not
exceed 2 to 1.
   3.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops and
similar finish work.
   4.   Temporary motion picture, television and theater stage sets and
scenery.
   5.   Above-ground prefabricated swimming pools.
   6.   Swings and other playground equipment.
   7.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project more
than 54 inches from the exterior wall and do not require additional support.
   8.   Movable cases, counters, and partitions not over five (5) feet nine (9)
inches in height.
   9.   DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
   10.   Shingling, re-roofing of existing one- and two-family dwellings,
siding and replacing windows and doors.
   11.   Gutters, downspouts, and storm windows.
   12.   Garbage can racks.
   13.   Replacement of decks, sidewalks, and driveways where no change in the
dimensions or materials is involved.
IRC Chapter 1, Section R105.2 Exception Certain Concrete Pads Exempt from Fee.
Concrete pads exclusively for placement of garbage cans, garbage can racks,
approved garbage disposal containers, or dumpsters, shall require a building
permit which shall be issued without a fee.
IRC Chapter 1, Section R107.3 Temporary Power. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IRC Chapter 1, Section R108.5 Refunds. The Building Official is authorized to
establish refund policy.
IRC Chapter 3, Section R302.5.1 Opening Protection. Openings from a private
garage directly into a room used for sleeping purposes shall not be permitted.
Other openings between the garage and residence shall be equipped with solid
wood doors not less than 1 3/8 inches thick, solid or honeycomb-core steel
doors not less than 1-3/8 inches thick, or 20-minute fire-rated doors.
IRC Chapter 3, Section R311.7.8 Handrails. Handrails having minimum and maximum
height of thirty-four (34) inches and thirty-eight (38) inches, respectively,
measured vertically from the nosing of the treads, shall be provided on at
least one side of the stairways. All required handrails shall be continuous the
full length of the stairs with three or more risers from a point directly above
the top riser of a flight to a point directly above lowest riser of the flight.
Ends shall be returned or shall terminate in newel posts or safety terminal.
Handrails adjacent to a wall shall have a space of not less than one and one
half (1.5) inches between the wall and the handrails.
Exceptions:
   1.   Handrails shall be permitted to be interrupted by a newel post at a
turn.
   2.   The use of a volute, turnout or starting easing shall be allowed over
the lowest tread.
IRC Chapter 3, Section R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems. DELETED FROM THIS
ARTICLE
IRC Chapter 3, Section R313.2.1 Design and Installation. When installed,
automatic residential fire sprinkler systems shall be designed and installed in
accordance with Section P2904 or NFPA 13D.
IRC Chapter 3, Section R315 Carbon Monoxide Alarms. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IRC Chapter 3, Section R322 Flood Resistant Construction. DELETED FROM THIS
ARTICLE
IRC Chapter 4, Section R408.7 Flood Resistance. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
IRC Chapter 11, Section N1102.1.2 (R402.1.2) Insulation and Fenestration
Criteria. The building thermal envelope shall meet the requirements of Table
N1102.1.2 based on the climate zone specified in Section N1101.7.
Table N1102.1.2 Insulation and Fenestration Requirements By Componenta
Table N1102.1.2 Insulation and Fenestration Requirements By Componenta
Climate Zone                   5A
Fenestration U-Factor [BTU/hr- 0.32
ft2-°F
Skylightb U-Factor             0.55
Glazed Fenestration SHGC       NR
Ceiling R-Valuel               49
Wood Frame Wall R-Value        19 or 13 + 5h
Mass Wall R-Valuek             15/19
Floor R-Value                  30g
Basementc Wall R-Value         15/19
Slabd R-Value and Depth        10, 36 inches
Crawl Spacec Wall R-Value      15/19
a.    R-values are minimums. U-factors and solar heat gain coefficient (SHGC)
are maximums.
b.    The fenestration U-factor column excludes skylights. The SHGC column
applies to all glazed fenestrations.
c.    The first R-Value applies to continuous insulation which is allowed to
be applied at the time of finishing the basement, the second to framing
cavity insulation; either insulation meets the requirement.
d.    R-5 shall be added to the required slab edge R-values for heated slabs.
g.    Or insulation sufficient to fill the framing cavity, R-19 minimum.
h.    “13 + 5” means R-13 cavity insulation plus R-5 insulated sheathing. If
structural sheathing covers 25% or less of the exterior, R-5 sheathing is not
required where structural sheathing is used. If structural sheathing covers
more than 25% of the exterior, structural sheathing shall be supplemented
with insulated sheathing of at least R-2.
k.    The second R-value applies when more than half the insulation is on the
interior.
l.   The minimum R-value for ceilings is further based on a minimum 6-inch
(152 mm) heel height to allow the ceiling insulation to extend over the top
plate.
 
Appendix E. Manufactured Housing Used as Dwellings. DELETED FROM THIS ARTICLE
(Prior Code, § 14.01.03) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 741, passed - -; Ord. 873,
passed - -; Ord. 891, passed - -)
§ 151.004 BUILDING PERMITS AND BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   A building permit shall be valid for six months from the date it is
issued. If, at the end of the six-month period, the work has commenced but is
not completed, upon request, the permit shall be re-issued one time for an
additional six months, without charge. If, at the end of the second six-month
period, the work is not completed; or if, at the end of the first six-month
period the work has not commenced; in either case the resident must obtain a
new building permit and pay all associated fees therefor. Building permit fees
shall be as established by resolution and on file with the Finance Officer.
   (B)   In the event that the entity is a government agency with which the
City of Winner cooperates in various ways, the City Council shall have the
authority to waive all or any portion of a building permit fee upon the
application of that agency for a waiver. The historical nature and extent of
cooperation between the entities shall be considered by the City Council when
determining whether a waiver is in the best interest of the City of Winner. The
decision of the City Council shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.04) (Ord. 873, passed - -; Ord. 891, passed - -; Ord. 997,
passed 4-19-2021; Ord. 1028, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 151.005 RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS NOT AFFECTED.
   Nothing in this subchapter or in the Building Code hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceeding in any court, or any rights
acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or
existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in §
151.002; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost,
impaired or affected by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.05) (Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 741, passed - -; Ord. 873,
passed - -; Ord. 891, passed - -; Ord. 997, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.006 PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a building permit, the Planning and Zoning
Administrator shall ensure that the proposed building site, as well as any
proposed fences shall be constructed in such a manner as to be in conformity
with the City Building Code regarding locations therein and distances from the
adjacent property lines in accordance with the requirements of the city zoning
ordinance, as codified in Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Administrator and/or the City Planning
Commission shall be authorized to require the property owner to have a licensed
surveyor set out the property lines if the property lines are in question or
not firmly established. This shall be done prior to any excavation or
construction.
(Prior Code, § 14.01.06) (Ord. 725, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 873,
passed - -; Ord. 891, passed - -; Ord. 997, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 151.007 MINIMUM UTILITIES SERVICES REQUIRED TO INHABIT ANY STRUCTURE OR
FACILITY.
   (A)   No person may inhabit, reside in, or maintain a structure or facility
where persons reside unless such structure or facility is connected to and is
lawfully utilizing electric service and water service. For purpose of this
section, a person is inhabiting or residing in a structure or facility if the
person is living, sleeping, or housekeeping therein on a daily or other regular
basis, whether or not the person actually claims the place as their residence.
However, sleeping in a recreational vehicle for up to 14 days will not require
utilities connections so long as it is done in compliance with §
154.379.
   (B)   Any person inhabiting or residing in any place in violation of
division (A) above, shall be advised to vacate the place and to cease such
habitation. Inhabiting any structure or facility in violation of this section
following notice to vacate shall constitute a Class 2 Misdemeanor, subject to
such penalty as set forth in §
10.99.
   (C)   In addition to the remedy set forth above in division (B), the city
shall also be entitled to seek injunctive relief or to sue for forcible entry
and such other proper remedy authorized by state law.
(Ord. 1073, passed 4-1-2024)
FIRE ZONES
§ 151.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE ZONES.
   All properties located within the corporate limits of the city are in the
Winner Fire Zone.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.01) (Ord. 182, passed - -; Ord. 211, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 151.021 TYPES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The types of construction allowed for buildings or structures to be built
within the fire zone shall be those identified in the International Building
Code, as adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.02) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 151.022 FIRE RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS.
   The fire resistance rating requirements for exterior walls within the fire
zone shall be based on the fire separation distances as identified in the
International Building Code as adopted by the city.
   (A)   Buildings or structures built in residential zones shall maintain a
minimum three-foot setback.
   (B)   Utility sheds not exceeding 120 square feet shall not be closer than
six inches to any property line in any required rear yard and shall not be
placed closer than 12 feet from any adjoining landowners
dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 151.023 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   There shall not be parked upon any public street or alley in the city for a
period of longer than 30 minutes between the hours of 8:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.,
any truck or other commercial vehicle which is used for the transportation of
gasoline, oil, gas or other volatile substance, or where any vehicle is over
six feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 14.02.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
FILLING STATIONS
§ 151.035 PROHIBITED LOCATION.
   The construction, operation and maintenance of gasoline and oil filling
stations within or upon any parking or sidewalk on Main Street of the city or
upon any parking or sidewalk within a distance of 75 feet of such Main Street
on any street intersecting such Main Street, and within the fire limits of the
city is hereby declared to be dangerous, against public safety and a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 14.03.01) (Ord. 130, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
151.999
§ 151.036 WRITTEN APPLICATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to erect, construct, operate and
maintain a filling station or bulk station for the purpose of selling or
storing petroleum products, within the limits of the city, shall make
application in writing to the governing body of the city, which said written
application shall show specifically the location, construction of building or
buildings, pumps, storage tanks and all appurtenances thereto and shall specify
the lot or lots and block upon which station is to be erected or maintained.
(Prior Code, § 14.03.02) (Ord. 203, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 151.037 BUILT TO MEET SPECIFICATIONS.
   All buildings, pumps, storage tanks and appurtenances thereto shall be of
such construction as to meet standard Fire Underwriters specifications and all
petroleum storage tanks when placed under ground shall be so placed that such
storage tank or tanks shall not have an air space or void, around, over or
under such storage tank or tanks and shall be covered by at least one and one-
half feet of earth or other suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 14.03.03) (Ord. 203, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 151.038 SERVICE FACILITIES.
   Any filling station erected from and after the passage, approval and
publication of this chapter shall have the service facilities consisting of
pumps and appurtenances thereto so located upon the premises that the vehicles
served by such facilities shall not interfere or obstruct the traffic or
obscure the clear view of the street or streets adjoining such filling station.
In no event shall any filling station or stations be permitted upon the public
streets, alleys or parking within the limits of the city, except service
facilities erected prior to the passage of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.03.04) (Ord. 203, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 151.039 GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   Upon the approval by the governing body of the city of any application for
the erection, construction and operation of such filling station, the City
Finance Officer shall issue a license for the operation thereof which said
license shall grant to said applicant the privilege of operating and
maintaining a filling station within the limits of the city. A license fee of
$1 per year or fraction thereof shall be charged for such license.
(Prior Code, § 14.03.05) (Ord. 203, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 151.040 ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   The Council shall make, promulgate and enforce regulations for the design,
construction, location, installation and operation of equipment for storing,
handling, transporting by tank truck or tank trailer, and utilizing liquefied
petroleum gases, and for the odorization of said gases used therewith. Such
regulation shall be substantially in conformity with the published standards of
the National Board of Fire Underwriters as recommended by the National Fire
Protection Association covering the same subject matter. Such regulations shall
be made by the Council only after an investigation of the matters concerned.
(Prior Code, § 14.03.06) (Ord. 215, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 151.055 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide a just, equitable and
practicable method, to be cumulative with and in addition to, any other remedy
provided by the Building Code, Housing Code or otherwise available at law,
whereby buildings or structures which from any cause endanger the life, limb,
health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the general public or their
occupants may be required to be repaired, vacated or demolished. The purpose of
this code is not to create or otherwise establish or designate any particular
class or group of persons who will or should be especially protected or
benefitted by the terms of this code.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.01) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.056 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all dangerous
buildings, as herein defined, which are now in existence or which may hereafter
become dangerous in this jurisdiction.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS BUILDINGS. Any buildings or structures that have conditions,
from any cause, that endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety
or welfare of the general public of their occupants.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.02) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.057 ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS AND REPAIRS.
   All buildings or structures which are required to be repaired under the
provisions of this code shall be subject to the provisions of §§ 104.1 and
104.2 of the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.03) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of International Building Code, see §
151.001
§ 151.058 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administration. The City Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized
to enforce the provision of this subchapter. The Enforcement Official shall
have the power to render interpretations of this subchapter and to adopt and
enforce rules and regulations supplemental to this code as he or she may deem
necessary in order to clarify the application of the provisions of this
subchapter. Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformity
with the intent and purpose of this subchapter.
   (B)   Inspections. The Health Officer, Fire Marshal and Enforcement Official
are hereby authorized to make such inspections and take such actions as may be
required to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Right of entry. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce
any of the provisions of this subchapter, or whenever the Enforcement Official
or an authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation
which makes such building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the
Enforcement Official or an authorized representative may enter such building or
premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty
imposed upon the Enforcement Official by this code, provided that if such
building or premises be occupied, he or she shall first present proper
credentials and request entry; and if such building or premises be unoccupied,
he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
persons having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry.
If such entry is refused, the Enforcement Official or an authorized
representative shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
entry.
   (D)   Authorized representative. Shall include the officers named in
division (B) above and their authorized inspection personnel.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.04) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.059 ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   All buildings or portions thereof which are determined after inspection by
the Building Official to be dangerous as defined in this subchapter are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition or removal in accordance with the procedure specified in §
151.064.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.05) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.060 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure or cause or permit the
same to be done in violation of this subchapter. Any violation will be
prosecuted.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.06) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.061 INSPECTION OF WORK.
   All buildings or structures within the scope of this subchapter and all
construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the Enforcement Official in accordance with and in the manner
provided by this code and § 114 of the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.07) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.062 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or
determinations made by the City Code Enforcement Officer relative to the
application and interpretations of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a Board of Appeals consisting of five members who are qualified by
experience and training to pass upon matters pertaining to building
construction and who are not employees of the jurisdiction. The Building
Official shall be an ex officio member and shall act as Secretary to the Board
but shall have no vote upon any matter before the Board. The Board of Appeals
shall be recommended by the City Code Enforcement Officer, and shall be
appointed by the Mayor annually and shall hold office at the Mayor's pleasure.
The Board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall
render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant, with a duplicate
copy to the City Code Enforcement Officer. Appeals to the Board shall be
processed in accordance with the provisions contained in §
151.068. Copies of all rules or regulations adopted by the Board shall be
delivered to the Building Official, who shall make them freely accessible to
the public.
   (B)   Limitations of authority. The Board of Appeals shall have no authority
relative to interpretation of the administrative provisions of this subchapter
nor shall the Board be empowered to waive requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.08) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.063 DANGEROUS BUILDING.
   Any building or structure that has any conditions or defects that violate
building codes as set forth in the most recent editions of the International
Property Maintenance Code, as adopted by the city in § 150.001, or
International Building Code, as adopted by the city in §
151.001, shall be deemed to be a dangerous building, provided that such
conditions or defects exist to the extent that the life, health, property, or
safety of the public or its occupants are endangered.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.09) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.064 NOTICES AND ORDERS OF CITY CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Commencement of proceedings. Whenever the City Code Enforcement
Officer has inspected or caused to be inspected any building and has found and
determined that such building is a dangerous building, he or she shall commence
proceedings to cause the repair, vacation or demolition of the building.
   (B)   Notice and order.The Building Official shall issue a notice and order
directed to the record owner of the building.The notice and order shall
contain:
      (1)   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located;
      (2)   A statement that the Enforcement Official has found the building to
be dangerous with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to
render the building dangerous under the provisions of §
151.063;
      (3)   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by the
Enforcement Official.
         (a)   If the Enforcement Official has determined that the building or
structure must be repaired, the order shall require that all required permits
be secured therefor and the work physically commenced within such time (not to
exceed 60 days from the date of the order) and completed within such time as
the Building Official shall determine is reasonable under all of the
circumstances;
         (b)   If the Enforcement Official has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the order shall require that the building or
structure shall be vacated within a time certain from the date of the order as
determined by the Building Official to be reasonable; and
         (c)   If the Enforcement Official has determined that the building or
structure must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be
vacated within such time as the Enforcement Official shall determine is
reasonable (not to exceed) 60 days from the date of the order, and that the
demolition be completed within such time as the Enforcement Official shall
determine is reasonable.
      (4)   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition work
(without vacation also being required) is not commenced within the time
specified, the Enforcement Official:
         (a)   Will order the building vacated and posted to prevent further
occupancy until the work is completed; and
         (b)   May proceed to cause the work to be done and charge the costs
thereof against the property or its owner.
      (5)   Statements advising that:
         (a)   Any person having any record title or legal interest in the
building may appeal from the notice and order or any action of the Building
Official to the Board of Appeals, provided the appeal is made in writing as
provided in this code and filed with the City Code Enforcement Officer within
30 days from the date of service of such notice and order; and
         (b)   Failure to appeal will constitute a waiver of all rights to an
administrative hearing and determination of the matter.
   (C)   Service of notice and order.
      (1)   The notice and order, and any amended or supplemental notice and
order, shall be served upon the record owner and posted on the property.
      (2)   One copy thereof shall be served on each of the following if known
to the Enforcement Official or disclosed from official public records:
         (a)   The holder of any mortgage or deed or trust or other lien or
encumbrance of record;
         (b)   The owner or holder of any lease of record; and
         (c)   The holder of any other estate or legal interest of record in or
to the building or the land on which it is located.
      (3)   The failure of the Enforcement Official to serve any person
required herein to be served shall not invalidate any proceedings hereunder as
to any other person duly served or relieve any such person from any duty or
obligation imposed on them by the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Method of service. Service of the notice and order shall be made upon
all persons entitled thereto either personally or by mailing a copy of such
notice and order by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested,
to each such person at his or her address as it appears on the last equalized
assessment roll of the county or as known to the Enforcement Official. If no
address of any such person so appears or is known to the Enforcement Official,
then a copy of the notice and order shall be so mailed, addressed to such
person, at the address of the building involved in the proceedings. The failure
of any such person to receive such notice shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings taken under this section. Service by certified mail in the manner
herein provided shall be effective on the date of mailing.
   (E)   Proof of service. Proof of service of the notice and order shall be
certified to at the time of service by a written declaration under penalty of
perjury executed by the persons effecting service, declaring the time, date and
manner in which service was made. The declaration, together with any receipt
card returned in acknowledgment of receipt by certified mail shall be affixed
to the copy of the notice and order retained by the Enforcement Official.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.10) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.065 RECORDATION OF NOTICE AND ORDER.
   (A)   If compliance is not had with the order within the time specified
therein, and no appeal has been properly and timely filed, the Enforcement
Official shall file in the office of the County Recorder a certificate
describing the property and certifying that:
      (1)   The building is a dangerous building; and
      (2)   The owner has been so notified.
   (B)   Whenever the corrections ordered shall thereafter have been completed
or the building demolished so that it no longer exists as a dangerous building
on the property described in the certificate, the Enforcement Official shall
file a new certificate with the County Recorder certifying that the building
has been demolished or all required corrections have been made so that the
building is no longer dangerous, whichever is appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.11) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.066 REPAIR, VACATION AND DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed by the City Code Enforcement
Officer (and by the Board of Appeals if an appeal is taken) in ordering the
repair, vacation or demolition of any dangerous building or structure:
   (A)   Any building declared a dangerous building under this code shall be
made to comply with one of the following:
      (1)   The building shall be repaired in accordance with the current
Building Code or other current code applicable to the type of substandard
conditions requiring repair;
      (2)   The building shall be demolished at the option of the building
owner; or
      (3)   If the building does not constitute an immediate danger to the
life, limb, property or safety of the public it may be vacated, secured and
maintained against entry.
   (B)   If the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
immediately dangerous to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or
its occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.12) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.067 NOTICE TO VACATE.
   (A) Posting. Every notice to vacate shall, in addition to being served as
provided in §
151.064(C), be posted at or upon each exit of the building and shall be in
substantially the following form:
 
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building, or to remove or deface this
notice.
Building Official
_____________ of _____________
 
   (B)   Compliance. Whenever such notice is posted, the City Code Enforcement
Officer shall include a notification thereof in the notice and order issued by
him or her under §
151.064(B), reciting the emergency and specifying the conditions which
necessitate the posting. No person shall remain in or enter any building which
has been so posted, except that entry may be made to repair, demolish or remove
such building under permit. No person shall remove or deface any such notice
after it is posted until the required repairs, demolition or removal have been
completed and a certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to the provisions of
the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.14) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.068 APPEAL.
   (A)   Form of appeal.
      (1)   Any person entitled to service under §
151.064(C) may appeal from any notice and order or any action of the Building
Official under this code by filing at the office of Planning and Zoning a
written appeal containing:
         (a)   A heading in the words: “Before the Board of Appeals of the
_______ of _______”;
         (b)   A caption reading: “Appeal of _______,” giving the names of all
appellants participating in the appeal;
         (c)   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of each of
the appellants in the building or the land involved in the notice and order;
         (d)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the
specific order or action protested, together with any material facts claimed to
support the contentions of the appellant;
         (e)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought and the reasons why it is claimed the protested order or action should
be reversed, modified or otherwise set aside. If the desired relief sought has
any plans of repairs, the plan to repair must include a timeline. The timeline
shall provide how repair work will commence within 30 days of the order. The 30
day timeline may be extended if good cause to extend is found by the City Code
Enforcement Officer. The repair plans must also include a detailed list of
repairs and the contractors that will accomplish the repairs. Once repair work
commences, it must continue in a timely manner to correct all deficiencies
without undue delay;
         (f)   The signatures of all parties named as appellants and their
official mailing addresses; and
         (g)   The verification (by declaration under penalty of perjury) of at
least one appellant as to the truth of the matters stated in the appeal.
      (2)   The appeal shall be filed within 30 days from the date of the
service of such order or action of the Building Official; provided, however,
that if the building or structure is in such condition as to made it
immediately dangerous to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or
adjacent property and is ordered vacated and is posted in accordance with §
151.067, such appeal shall be filed within ten days from the date of the
service of the notice and order of the City Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Processing of appeal. Upon receipt of any appeal filed pursuant to
this section, the Building Official shall present it at the next regular or
special meeting of the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Scheduling and noticing appeal for hearing. As soon as practicable
after receiving the written appeal, the Board of Appeals shall fix a date, time
and place for the hearing of the appeal by the Board. Such date shall be not
less than ten days nor more than 60 days from the date the appeal was filed
with the Building Official. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be given at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing to each
appellant by the Secretary of the Board either by causing a copy of such notice
to be delivered to the appellant personally or by mailing a copy thereof,
postage prepaid, addressed to the appellant at his or her address shown on the
appeal.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.15) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.069 EFFECT OF FAILURE TO APPEAL.
   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the provisions of
§
151.068 shall constitute a waiver of their right to an administrative hearing
and adjudication of the notice and order or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.15) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.070 SCOPE OF HEARING ON APPEAL.
   Only those matters or issues specifically raised by the appellant shall be
considered in the hearing of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.16) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.071 STAYING OF ORDER UNDER APPEAL.
   Except for vacation orders made pursuant to §
151.066, enforcement of any notice and order of the Building Official issued
under this subchapter shall be stayed during the pending of an appeal therefrom
which is properly and timely filed.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.17) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.072 PROCEDURE FOR CONDUCT OF HEARING APPEALS.
   (A)   Hearing examiners. The Board may appoint one or more Hearing Examiners
or designate one or more of its members to serve as Hearing Examiners to
conduct the hearings. The Examiner hearing the case shall exercise all powers
relating to the conduct of hearings until it is submitted by him or her to the
Board of decision.
   (B)   Record. A record of the entire proceedings shall be made by tape
recording or by any other means of permanent recording determined to be
appropriate by the Board.
   (C)   Reporting. The proceedings at the hearing shall also be reported by a
phonographic reporter if requested by any party thereto. A transcript of the
proceedings shall be made available to all parties upon request and upon
payment of the fee prescribed therefor. Such fees may be established by the
Board, but shall in no event be greater than the cost involved.
   (D)   Continuances. The Board may grant continuances for good cause shown;
however, when a Hearing Examiner has been assigned to such hearing, no
continuances may be granted except by him or her for good cause shown so long
as the matter remains before him or her.
   (E)   Oath/certification. In any proceedings under this subchapter, the
Board, any Board member or the Hearing Examiner has the power to administer
oaths and affirmations and to certify to official acts.
   (F)   Reasonable dispatch. The Board and its representatives shall proceed
with reasonable dispatch to conclude any matter before it. Due regard shall be
shown for the convenience and necessity of any parties or their
representatives.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.18) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.073 FORM OF NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The notice to appellant shall be substantially in the following form, but
may include other information:
“You are hereby notified that a hearing will be held before (the Board of
Appeals or name of Hearing Examiner) at _________ on the __________ day of
__________, 20 ______, at the hour __________, upon the notice and order served
upon you. You may be present at the hearing. You may be, but need not be,
represented by counsel. You may present any relevant evidence and will be given
full opportunity to cross-examine all witnesses testifying against you. You may
request the issuance of subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the
production of books, documents or other things by filing an affidavit therefor
with (Board of Appeals or name of Hearing Examiner).”
(Prior Code, § 14.04.19) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.074 SUBPOENAS.
   (A)   Filing of affidavit. The Board or Examiner may obtain the issuance and
service of a subpoena for the attendance of witnesses or the production of
other evidence at a hearing upon the request of a member of the Board or upon
the written demand of any party. The issuance and service of such subpoena
shall be obtained upon the filing of an affidavit therefor which states the
name and address of the proposed witness; specifies the exact things sought to
be produced and the materiality thereof in detail to the issues involved; and
states that the witness has the desired things in his or her possession or
under his or her control. A subpoena need not be issued when the affidavit is
defective in any particular.
   (B)   Cases referred to Examiner. In cases where a hearing is referred to an
Examiner, all subpoenas shall be obtained through the Examiner.
   (C)   Penalties. Any person who refuses without lawful excuse to attend any
hearing or to produce material evidence in his or her possession or under his
or her control as required by any subpoena served upon such person as provided
for herein shall be guilty of a Class II misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.20) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.075 CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   (A)   Rules. Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses.
   (B)   Oral evidence. Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.
   (C)   Hearsay evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in
civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   (D)   Admissibility of evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the
purpose of supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be
sufficient in itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over
objection in civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   (E)   Exclusion of evidence. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence
shall be excluded.
   (F)   Rights of parties. Each party shall have these rights, among others:
      (1)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues
of the hearing;
      (2)   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
      (3)   To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
      (4)   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called him
or her to testify;
      (5)   To rebut the evidence against him or her; and
      (6)   To represent himself or herself or to be represented by anyone of
his or her choice who is lawfully permitted to do so.
   (G)   Official notice.
      (1)   What may be noticed. In reaching a decision, official notice may be
taken, either before or after submission of the case for decision, of any fact
which may be judicially noticed by the courts of this state or of official
records of the Board of departments and ordinances of the city or rules and
regulations of the Board.
      (2)   Parties to be notified. Parties present at the hearing shall be
informed of the matters to be noticed, and these matters shall be noted in the
record, referred to therein or appended thereto.
      (3)   Opportunity to refute. Parties present at the hearing shall be
given a reasonable opportunity, on request, to refute the officially noticed
matters by evidence or by written or oral presentation of authority, the manner
of such refutation to be determined by the Board or Hearing Examiner.
      (4)   Inspection of the premises. The Board or the Hearing Examiner may
inspect any building or premises involved in the appeal during the course of
the hearing, provided that:
         (a)   Notice of such inspection shall be given to the parties before
the inspection is made; and
         (b)   The Board or the Hearing Examiner shall state for the record
upon completion of the inspection the material facts observed and the
conclusions drawn therefrom. Each party then shall have a right to rebut or
explain the matters so stated by the Board or Hearing Examiner.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.21) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.076 METHOD AND FORM OF DECISION.
   (A)   Hearing before Board itself. Where a contested case is heard before
the Board itself, no member thereof who did not hear the evidence or has not
read the entire record of the proceedings shall vote on or take part in the
decision.
   (B)   Hearing before Examiner. If a contested case is heard by a Hearing
Examiner alone, the Hearing Examiner shall within a reasonable time (not to
exceed 90 days from the date the hearing is closed) submit a written report to
the Board. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered
and state the Examiner's findings, conclusions and recommendations. The report
also shall contain a proposed decision in such form that it may be adopted by
the Board as its decision in the case. All Examiner's reports filed with the
Board shall be matters of public record. A copy of each such report and
proposed decision shall be mailed to each party on the date they are filed with
the Board.
   (C)   Consideration of report by Board; notice. The Board shall fix the
time, date and place to consider the Examiner's report and proposed decision.
Notice thereof shall be mailed to each interested party not less than five days
prior to the date fixed, unless it is otherwise stipulated by all of the
parties.
   (D)   Exceptions to report. Not later than two days before the date set to
consider the report, any party may file written exceptions to any part or all
of the examiner’s report and may attach thereto a proposed decision together
with written argument in support of such decision. By leave of the Board, any
party may present in its entirety, or may modify, the proposed decision.
   (E)   Proposed decision not adopted. If the proposed decision is not
adopted, the Board may decide the case upon the entire record before it, with
or without taking additional evidence, or may refer the case to the same or
another Hearing Examiner to take additional evidence. If the case is reassigned
to a Hearing Examiner, he or she shall prepare a report and proposed decision
as provided in division (B) above after any additional evidence is submitted.
Consideration of such proposed decision by the Board shall comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (F)   Form of decision. The decision shall be in writing and shall contain
findings of fact, a determination of the issues presented, and the requirements
to be complied with. A copy of the decision shall be delivered to the appellant
personally or sent to him or her by certified mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.22) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.077 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   General. After any order of the City Code Enforcement Official or the
Board of Appeals made pursuant to this code has become final, the person to
whom such order is directed shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with such
order is guilty of a Class II misdemeanor and shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure to obey order. If, after any order of the Building Official or
Board of Appeals made pursuant to this code has become final, the person to
whom such order is directed shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey such order,
the Building Official may cause such person to be prosecuted under division (A)
above or institute any appropriate action to abate such building as a public
nuisance.
   (C)   Failure to commence work. Whenever the required repair or demolition
is not commenced within 30 days after any final notice and order issued under
this code becomes effective:
      (1)   Vacated by posting at each entrance thereto a notice reading:
 
DANGEROUS BUILDING DO NOT OCCUPY
It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building,
or to remove or deface this notice.
Enforcement Official
___________ of ___________
 
      (2)   No person shall occupy any building which has been posted as
specified in this division (C). No person shall remove or deface any such
notice so posted until the repairs, demolition or removal ordered by the
Building Official have been completed and a certificate of occupancy issued
pursuant to the provisions of the Building Code.
      (3)   The City Code Enforcement Officer may, in addition to any other
remedy herein provided, cause the building to be repaired to the extent
necessary to correct the conditions which render the building dangerous as set
forth in the notice and order; or, if the notice and order required demolition,
to cause the building to be sold and demolished, or demolished and the
materials, rubble and debris therefrom removed and the lot cleaned. Any such
repair or demolition work shall be accomplished and the cost thereof paid and
recovered in the manner hereinafter provided in this subchapter. Any surplus
realized from the sale of any such building, or from the demolition thereof,
over and above the cost of demolition and of cleaning the lot, shall be paid
over to the person or persons lawfully entitled thereto.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.23) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.078 EXTENSION OF TIME TO PERFORM WORK.
   Upon receipt of an application from the person required to conform to the
order and an agreement by such person that he or she will comply with the order
if allowed additional time, the Enforcement Official may, in their discretion,
grant an extension of time, not to exceed an additional 120 days, within which
to complete the repair, rehabilitation or demolition, if the Enforcement
Official determines that such an extension of time will not create or
perpetuate a situation imminently dangerous to life or property. The
Enforcement Official’s authority to extend time is limited to the physical
repair, rehabilitation or demolition of the premises and will not in any way
affect the time to appeal the notice and order.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.24) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.079 INTERFERENCE WITH REPAIR OR DEMOLITION WORK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall obstruct, impede or interfere with any officer, employee,
contractor or authorized representative of this jurisdiction or with any person
who owns or holds any estate or interest in any building which has been ordered
repaired, vacated or demolished under the provisions of this code; or with any
person to whom such building has been lawfully sold pursuant to the provisions
of this code, whenever such officer, employee, contractor or authorized
representative of this jurisdiction, person having an interest or estate in
such building or structure, or purchaser is engaged in the work of repairing,
vacating and repairing, or demolishing any such building, pursuant to the
provisions of this code, or in performing any necessary act preliminary to or
incidental to such work as authorized or directed pursuant to this code.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.25) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.080 PERFORMANCE OF WORK OF REPAIR OR DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   When any work of repair or demolition is to be done pursuant to §
151.077(C)(3), the City Code Enforcement Officer shall issue an order therefor
to the Director of Public Works and the work shall be accomplished by personnel
of this jurisdiction or by private contract under the direction of the
Director.
      (2)   Plans and specifications therefor may be prepared by the Director,
or he or she may employ such architectural and engineering assistance on a
contract basis as he or she may deem reasonably necessary. If any part of the
work is to be accomplished by private contract, standard public works
contractual procedures shall be followed.
   (B)   Costs. The cost of such work shall be paid from the Repair and
Demolition Fund, and may be made a special assessment against the property
involved, or may be made a personal obligation of the property owner, whichever
the City Council shall determine is appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.26) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.081 REPAIR AND DEMOLITION FUND.
   (A)   General. The City Council shall establish a special revolving fund to
be designated as the Repair and Demolition Fund. Payments shall be made out of
the fund upon the demand of the Director of Public Works to defray the costs
and expenses which may be incurred in doing or causing to be done the necessary
work of repair or demolition of dangerous buildings.
   (B)   Maintenance of Fund. The City Council may at any time transfer to the
Repair and Demolition Fund, out of any money in the General Fund of this
jurisdiction, such sums as it may deem necessary in order to expedite the
performance of the work of repair or demolition, and any sum so transferred
shall be deemed a loan to the Repair and Demolition Fund and shall be repaid
out of the proceeds of the collections hereinafter provided for. All funds
collected under the proceedings hereinafter provided for shall be paid to the
Finance Officer who shall credit the same to the Repair and Demolition Fund.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.27) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.082 ACCOUNT OF EXPENSE, FILING OF REPORT; CONTENTS.
   The Director of Public Works shall keep an itemized account of the expense
incurred by this jurisdiction in the repair or demolition of any building done
pursuant to the provisions of §
151.077(C)(3). Upon the completion of the work of repair or demolition, the
Director shall prepare and file with the Finance Officer a report specifying
the work done, the itemized and total cost of the work, a description of the
real property upon which the building or structure is or was located, and the
names and addresses of the persons entitled to notice pursuant to §
151.064(C).
(Prior Code, § 14.04.28) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.083 REPORT TRANSMITTED TO COUNCIL; SET FOR HEARING.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the report, the Finance Officer shall present it to
the City Council for consideration.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix a time, date and place for hearing the
report and any protests or objections thereto.
   (C)   The Finance Officer shall cause notice of the hearing to be posted
upon the property involved, published once in a newspaper of general
circulation in this jurisdiction, and served by certified mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the owner of the property with the name and address that
appear on the last equalized assessment roll of the county, if such so appear,
or as known to the Finance Officer.
   (D)   Such notice shall be given at least ten days prior to the date set for
hearing and shall specify the day, hour and place when the City Council will
hear and pass upon the Director’s report, together with any objections or
protests which may be filed as hereinafter provided by any person interested in
or affected by the proposed charge.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.29) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.084 PROTESTS AND OBJECTIONS.
   Any person interested in or affected by the proposed charge may file written
protests or objections with the Finance Officer of this jurisdiction at any
time prior to the time set for the hearing on the report of the Director. Each
such protest or objection must contain a description of the property in which
the signer thereof is interested and the grounds of such protest or objection.
The Finance Officer shall endorse on every such protest or objection the date
it was received. The Finance Officer shall present such protests or objections
to the City Council at the time set for the hearing, and no other protests or
objections shall be considered.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.30) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.085 HEARING OF PROTESTS.
   Upon the day and hour fixed for the hearing, the City Council shall hear and
pass upon the report of the Director of Public Works together with any such
objections or protests. The City Council may make such revision, correction or
modification in the report or the charge as it may deem just; and when the City
Council is satisfied with the correctness of the charge, the report (as
submitted or as revised, corrected or modified) together with the charge, shall
be confirmed or rejected. The decision of City Council on the report and the
charge, and on all protests or objections, shall be final and conclusive.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.31) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.086 PERSONAL OBLIGATIONS OR SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   General. The City Council may thereupon order that the charge shall be
made a personal obligation of the property owner or assess the charge against
the property involved.
   (B)   Personal obligation. If the City Council orders that the charge shall
be a personal obligation of the property owner, it shall direct the City
Attorney to collect the same by use of all appropriate legal remedies.
   (C)   Special assessment. If the City Council orders that the charge shall
be assessed against the property, it shall confirm the assessment, cause the
same to be recorded on the assessment roll, and thereafter the assessment shall
constitute a special assessment against a lien upon the property.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.32) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.087 CONTESTED ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The validity of any assessment made under the provisions of this
subchapter shall not be contested in any action or proceeding unless the same
is commenced within 30 days after the assessment is placed upon the assessment
roll as provided herein.
   (B)   Any appeal from a final judgment in such action or proceeding must be
perfected within 30 days after the entry of such judgment.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.33) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.088 AUTHORITY FOR INSTALLMENT PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS WITH INTEREST.
   (A)   The City Council, in its discretion, may determine that assessments in
amount of $500 or more shall be payable in not to exceed five equal annual
installments.
   (B)   The City Council's determination to allow payment of such assessments
in installments, the number of installments, whether they shall bear interest
and the rate thereof shall be by a resolution adopted prior to the confirmation
of the assessment.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.34) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.089 LIEN OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Priority.
      (1)   Immediately upon its being placed on the assessment roll, the
assessment shall be deemed to be complete, the several amounts assessed shall
be payable and the assessments shall be liens against the lots or parcels of
land assessed, respectively.
      (2)   The lien shall be subordinate to all existing special assessment
liens previously imposed upon the same property taxes with which it shall be
upon a parity.
      (3)   The lien shall continue until the assessment and all interest due
and payable thereon are paid.
   (B)   Interest. All such assessments remaining unpaid after 30 days from the
date of recording on the assessment roll shall become delinquent and shall bear
interest at the rate of 7% per annum from and after the date.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.35) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.090 REPORT TO ASSESSOR AND TAX COLLECTOR.
   After confirmation of the report, certified copies of the assessment shall
be given to the Assessor and the Tax Collector for this jurisdiction, who shall
add the amount of the assessment to the next regular tax bill levied against
the parcel for municipal purposes.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.36) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.091 CERTIFIED COPY OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   If the County Assessor and the County Tax Collector assess property
and collect taxes for this jurisdiction, a certified copy of the assessment
shall be filed with the County Auditor on or before August 10.
   (B)   The descriptions of the parcels reported shall be those used for the
same parcels on the County Assessor’s map books for the current year.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.37) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.092 COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENT; PENALTIES FOR FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   (1)   The amount of the assessment shall be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as ordinary property taxes are collected; and shall be
subject to the same penalties and procedure and sale in case of delinquency as
provided for ordinary property taxes.
      (2)   All laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of
property taxes shall be applicable to such assessment.
   (B)   (1)   If the City Council has determined that the assessment shall be
paid in installments, each installment and any interest thereon shall be
collected in the same manner as ordinary property taxes in successive years.
      (2)   If any installment is delinquent, the amount thereof is subject to
the same penalties and procedure for sale as provided for ordinary property
taxes.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.38) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 151.093 REPAYMENT OF REPAIR AND DEMOLITION FUND.
   All money recovered by payment of the charge or assessment or from the sale
of the property at foreclosure sale shall be paid to the Finance Officer, who
shall credit the same to the Repair and Demolition Fund.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.39) (Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -; Ord. 912, passed 11-19-2018)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 151.105 PERMIT PROCESS.
   Any person desiring to erect, alter or repair or remove any building, into
or within the corporate limits shall file an application therefor with the City
Finance Officer for a permit for such purposes, and furnish plans and
specifications sufficient for the Council to determine whether such building,
alteration or repair is in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter
and shall furnish plans and specifications, together with a photograph of any
building proposed to be moved into the city or of any building proposed to be
moved from one location to another within the city, and if said permit is
granted by the Council, the applicant shall furnish a bond to the city in the
sum of $500 for the faithful performance of and the carrying out of the
alteration or repair of any such building moved into the city limits of said
city, according to the application of the person applying for such permit, and
such bond shall be approved by the Council and when said bond is so approved
such permit shall be signed by the City Finance Officer.
(Prior Code, § 14.05.01) (Ord. 143, passed - -; Ord. 236, passed - -; Ord. 242,
passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 151.106 COMPLYING WITH PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect, alter, or repair or move into said city or
remove any buildings within the corporate limits of the city located outside of
the fire limits of said city any building or addition to any building without
first having complied with the provisions of §
151.105.
(Prior Code, § 14.05.02) (Ord. 143, passed - -; Ord. 236, passed - -; Ord. 731,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.107 PROTECTING PAVED STREETS.
   Any person moving any house or building over or across any paved street
shall, when so provided in the permit, or when directed by the Street
Commissioner having charge of the streets of the city, cause such paved street
to be protected by laying planks thereon.
(Prior Code, § 14.05.03) (Ord. 143, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 151.108 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   Nothing in any permit granted in pursuance of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be construed as authorizing the holder thereof to break,
injure or move any telegraph, telephone, electric motors or electric line, wire
or poles, or in any way injure any shade tree or other property without
permission of the owner or owners thereof.
(Prior Code, § 14.05.04) (Ord. 143, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 151.109 STAND STILL TIME LIMIT.
   No building or part of building shall be allowed to stand still in any
public street or on any public ground in said city for more than 24 consecutive
hours without written permission.
(Prior Code, § 14.05.05) (Ord. 143, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
TEMPORARY BUILDINGS
§ 151.120 COMMERCIAL TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Seasonal, commercial temporary buildings usually consist of a rib structure
covered by a transparent material. After the commercial season of selling items
from the temporary building is over with, the weather and elements tend to
destroy the transparent material if it is not removed from the frame of the
building and said transparent material blows around within the neighborhood and
creates an unsightly situation.
(Prior Code, § 14.06.01) (Ord. 576, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 151.121 MAINTAIN OR REMOVE.
   The transparent material on said temporary buildings shall be maintained or
removed from said temporary building after the seasonal business is completed
so that the elements do not tear said material and creates an unsightly
situation.
(Prior Code, § 14.06.02) (Ord. 576, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 151.122 REMOVAL OF TRANSPARENT MATERIALS.
   The owners, lessees or operators of said temporary buildings shall have 30
days after they have abandoned said temporary buildings in regards to selling
items from the temporary building, to remove any transparent materials covering
said temporary building.
(Prior Code, § 14.06.03) (Ord. 576, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
151.999
§ 151.123 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustments, pursuant to the zoning regulations (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances) for the city, shall have the power to
find that any temporary or seasonal building which has not had the transparent
material in good maintenance removed 30 days after the temporary building has
been abandoned for the season is a nuisance pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.06.04) (Ord. 576, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
GRADING AND EROSION CONTROL
§ 151.135 INTRODUCTION; PURPOSE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   During the construction process, soil is highly vulnerable to erosion
by wind and water. Eroded soil endangers water resources by reducing water
quality, increasing pollutants and causes the siltation of aquatic habitat for
fish and other desirable species, and often adversely affects streets, rights-
of-way and neighboring properties via inundation of increased and/or
concentrated stormwater runoff.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to safeguard persons, protect
property and prevent damage to the environment in the city. This subchapter
will also promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the
design, construction, use, and maintenance of any development or other activity
that disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in the movement of earth on land
in the city.
   (C)   Unless specifically exempted, these regulations apply to all lands
within the city in which the vegetative cover is removed, disturbed or fill
material has been brought onto the site requiring stabilization.
(Prior Code, § 14.08.01) (Ord. 893, passed - -)
§ 151.136 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARSD. Administrative Rules of South Dakota.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Control measures which prevent or reduce
the discharge of pollutants (defined at ARSD 74:52:01:35) to waters of the
state.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the site.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. Outlined in §
151.139.
   GRADING AND EROSION CONTROL PLAN (GECP). A set of plans indicating the
specific measures and sequencing used to control sediment and erosion on a
construction site. (Required for all sites one-half acre or greater.)
   GRADING PERMIT. A permit issued by the city for construction, excavating,
clearing and/or land disturbing activity.
   LAND DISTURBANCE/DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any type of activity that involves
grading, clearing and/or moving topsoil or any other natural surface from the
property. This also includes bringing fill material onto the site.
   NOTICE OF STABILIZATION/RE-VEGETATION AGREEMENT. A signed agreement between
a property buyer and property seller or a building contractor and property
buyer where landscaping and re-vegetation will be required. This agreement
determines responsibilities between the two parties for sediment and erosion
control on the site.
   PERIMETER CONTROLS. Erosion control measures which protect neighboring
properties from non-stormwater discharges.
   SD DENR. South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
   STABILIZATION. The use of permanent or temporary landscape practices that
prevent exposed soils from eroding including, but not limited to, grass, trees,
sod, mulch or other materials which prevent erosion and retain moisture.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). Required by SD DENR for
stormwater permit for construction areas disturbing more than one acre or
industrial activities having a Standard Industrial Code (SIC) between 20
through 39.
   WATERCOURSE. Any body of water including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds,
streams, and other bodies of water delineated by the City of Winner.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All waters within the jurisdiction of this state,
including streams, lakes, ponds, impounding reservoirs, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage systems, and all other
bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or
artificial, public or private, situated wholly or partly within or bordering
upon the state, but not waste treatment systems, including treatment ponds or
lagoons designed to meet the requirements of the Clean Water Act (CWA), being
33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. other than cooling ponds as defined by 40 C.F.R. §
423.11(m).
   WATERWAY. A channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse or to a
public storm drain.
(Prior Code, § 14.08.02) (Ord. 893, passed - -)
§ 151.137 GRADING PERMIT(S).
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise exempt, a grading permit will be required prior
to persons engaging in a land disturbing activity exceeding 1,000 square feet.
      (2)   The following requirements must be met before the permit will be
granted:
         (a)   General permit for stormwater discharges associated with
construction activities through SD DENR as required by ARSD 72:52:01 through
72:52:11 for land disturbing activity of one acre or more;
         (b)   General permit for stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activities through SD DENR as required by ARSD 72:52:01 through 72:
52:11. The requirements for this permit are governed by the Standard Industrial
Code (SIC). There are no size (area) requirements for this permit; and
         (c)   Approval of the stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) by
the City Public Works Director. The SWPPP is a requirement for both divisions
(A)(2)(a) and (A)(2)(b) above.
   (B)   A grading permit with a grading and erosion control plan (GECP) will
be required for persons wishing to engage in land disturbing activity one-half
acre up to one acre upon obtaining approval of a grading and erosion control
plan (GECP) by the City Public Works Director.
   (C)   A grading permit shall designate the name, address and phone number
for person(s) (including emergency contact information) responsible for erosion
control measure implementation and maintenance.
   (D)   Exemptions: no grading permit will be required for the following
activities:
      (1)   Any emergency activity that is immediately needed for the
protection of life, property or natural resources;
      (2)   Any nursery and agricultural operations as permitted main or
accessory use; and
      (3)   Land disturbing activity less than 1,000 square feet.
   (E)   All permits will remain active until permanent landscaping measures
have been met on the site. Permanent stabilization/re-vegetation must be met by
October 31 of the year following completion of the project or occupancy of the
project. (Example: If the project is completed in July of 2018, then permanent
landscaping/re-vegetation must be completed by October 21, 2019.) Projects
larger than one- half acre may be required to be stabilized, landscaped or re-
vegetated in phases to prevent long term exposure of soils.
   (F)   Persons not subject to a grading permit but who are engaging in a land
disturbing activity are subject to applying effective best management practices
(BMPs) as well as the penalties set forth in §
151.999(F).
(Prior Code, § 14.08.03) (Ord. 893, passed - -)
§ 151.138 GRADING AND EROSION CONTROL PLAN.
   The grading and erosion control plan will include (for sites one-half acre
or larger):
   (A)   A legible map identifying area to be disturbed, slopes and resources
to be protected and also must include nearest downstream stormwater inlets,
drainage ways and neighboring property lines. This plan must be approved and
best management practices (BMPs) must be in place before any grading begins.
The minimum map size for sites from one-half acre to one acre is eight and one-
half inches by 11 inches; for construction sites disturbing more than one acre
and industrial sites, minimum map size will be 11 inches by 17 inches;
   (B)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) in §
151.137(A)(2)(a) and (A)(2)(b) will be required for submittal as the grading
and erosion control plan (GECP) for this section;
   (C)   All best management practices (BMPs) necessary to achieve soil
stabilization on the site itself and including stock piles of any soil, rock or
any additional landscaping materials on the site. The plan will also include a
designated entry/exit point, a concrete washout area on the site, measures to
protect nearest downstream stormwater inlet(s), and explain measures to prevent
mud-tracking from vehicles and equipment into the street; and
   (D)   Sites up to one-half acre which are not subject to a grading and
erosion control plan (GECP) will be required to apply all best management
practices (BMPs) necessary to accomplish soil stabilization based upon soil
conditions and topography of the particular site. A GECP may be required in
these areas when sites are consistently noncompliant with this code. Final
stabilization requirements set forth in §
151.139 are required for these sites.
(Prior Code, § 14.08.04) (Ord. 893, passed - -)
§ 151.139 FINAL STABILIZATION.
   (A)   All soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed and
either of the two following criteria are met:
      (1)   Uniform (e.g., evenly distributed, without large bare areas)
perennial vegetative cover with a density of 70% of the native background
vegetative cover for the area has been established on all unpaved areas and
areas not covered by permanent structures; or
      (2)   Equivalent permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of
riprap, retaining walls or geotextiles) have been employed.
   (B)   When background native vegetation naturally covers less than 100% of
the ground, the 70% coverage criteria is adjusted as follows: if the native
vegetation covers 50% of the ground, 70% of 50% (0.70 x 0.50 = 0.35) would
require 35% total cover for final stabilization. In an area where limited
vegetation is found naturally, less stabilization will be required.
   (C)   For individual lots in residential construction, final stabilization
means either:
      (1)   The property owner/contractor has completed final stabilization as
specified in this section under division (A) above; or
      (2)   The property owner/contractor has established adequate temporary
stabilization including perimeter controls for an individual lot prior to
occupation of the property by the new property owner(s) and has informed the
property owner(s) of the need for, and benefits of, final stabilization. A
signed “notice of stabilization/re-vegetation agreement” form will acknowledge
the landscaping requirements of the new owner.
   (D)   For construction projects on land used for agricultural purposes
(e.g., pipelines across crop or range land, staging areas for road construction
and the like), final stabilization may be accomplished by returning the
disturbed land to it preconstruction agricultural use. Areas disturbed that
were not previously used for agricultural activities, such as buffer strips
immediately adjacent to a watercourse, and areas which are not being returned
to their preconstruction agricultural use must meet the final stabilization
criteria in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (E)   Final stabilization must be completed on or before October 31 of the
year following the certificate of occupancy, final inspection or project
completion, whichever occurs sooner.
(Prior Code, § 14.08.05) (Ord. 893, passed - -)
§ 151.140 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It will be the responsibility of the grading permit holder to attain
approval of all required agencies for any waterway crossings to be installed if
a wet watercourse will be crossed regularly during construction (i.e., DENR,
Corps of Engineers, FEMA and the like).
   (B)   SWPPPs must be maintained on the site during the progress of the work.
   (C)   If control measures do not achieve stabilization, the permit holder
may be required to submit an updated SWPPP or may be required to submit a GECP
prepared by a professional engineer.
   (D)   Any on-site debris with potential to be wind-blown onto neighboring
properties must be controlled and refuse containers must be covered with a
cover intended for the container. Tarpaulins used to cover open dumpsters must
be intact and in good repair during use.
   (E)   The City Public Works Director or his or her designee may enter the
site to make inspections as needed.
(Prior Code, § 14.08.06) (Ord. 893, passed - -)
§ 151.141 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   Authority. Whenever the Public Works Director or his or her designee
finds a site maintained contrary to the provisions of this subchapter, the
Public Works Director or his or her designee is authorized to issue a stop work
order for the site.
   (B)   Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and issued to the
permittee or assigned contractor. Upon issuance, the cited work shall
immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reasons for the order
and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume.
(Prior Code, § 14.08.07) (Ord. 893, passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.142 FEES.
 
From 1,000 square feet to one-half acre $25
From one-half acre to one acre          $50
For one acre and above                  $75
 
(Prior Code, § 14.08.08) (Ord. 893, passed - -)
INSPECTION WARRANTS
§ 151.155 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Owning any place, dwelling, structure, or premises within the city, whether
it be commercial, rental, or privately owned, entails certain responsibilities.
Those responsibilities include compliance with all state or local laws or
regulations relating to building, housing, fire, safety, plumbing, electrical,
health or zoning. These must be followed to assure that the citizens of the
city are safe, secure, and free from reasonable fears about safety and health
concerns.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.156 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS. Any buildings or structures that have conditions, from
any cause, that endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or
welfare of the general public or their occupants.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.157 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the inspection will be to ensure that the place, dwelling,
structure, or premises conforms to the building code standard that has been
adopted by the city and not in violation of §
151.063, "Dangerous Buildings."
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.158 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If the City Code Enforcement Officer determines any place, dwelling,
structure, or premises within city limits is in violation of state or local
laws or regulations, the City Code Enforcement Officer will contact the owner,
in writing and by certified mail, requesting entrance for an inspection
relating to building, housing, fire, safety, plumbing, electrical, health, or
zoning concerns. The Officer will provide detailed information alleging the
violations of state law or local regulations. Upon receiving the written
notice, the property owners will have 30 days to respond to and arrange a date
and time for the inspection. If after 30 days of sending written notice the
property owner has not responded, the City Code Enforcement Officer will seek
to secure an inspection warrant pursuant to state law.
   (B)   The City Code Enforcement Officer will use due diligence to locate and
make contact with property owners. The City Code Enforcement Officer will make
three written attempts to contact a property owner before seeking to secure an
inspection warrant pursuant to state law.
   (C)   In support of securing an inspection warrant, the City Code
Enforcement Officer will write an affidavit complying with SDCL § 34-43-2.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an inspection warrant from a magistrate or judge, the
City Code Enforcement Officer will personally serve the warrant on the property
owner if able to be located. If the property owner is not able to be located,
the warrant shall be posted on the property to be inspected at least 12 hours
prior to the inspection. The inspection process shall comply with state law and
SDCL § 34-43-7.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.159 ENFORCEMENT.
   In the event that it is determined that the place, dwelling, structure, or
premises is in violation of the building code standard adopted by the city or §
151.063, the enforcement process detailed in Chapter 14, Article 4 of the
Building Code of City of Winner will then be followed.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.160 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   General. In order to hear and decide appeals of inspection warrant
determinations made by the City Code Enforcement Officer relative to the
application and interpretations of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a Board of Appeals consisting of at least five members who are
qualified by experience and training to pass upon matters pertaining to
building construction and health and who are not employees of the jurisdiction.
The City Code Enforcement Officer shall be an ex officio member and shall act
as Secretary to the Board but shall have no vote upon any matter before the
Board. The Board of Appeals shall be recommended by the City Code Enforcement
Officer, and shall be appointed by the Mayor annually, and shall hold office at
the Mayor's pleasure. The Board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting
its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the
appellant, with a duplicate copy to the City Code Enforcement Officer. Appeals
to the Board shall be processed in accordance with the provisions contained in
§
151.161. Copies of all rules or regulations adopted by the Board shall be
delivered to the Building Official, who shall make them freely accessible to
the public.
   (B)   Limitations of authority. The Board of Appeals shall have no authority
relative to interpretation of the administrative provisions of this code, nor
shall the Board be empowered to waive requirements of this code.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.161 APPEAL.
   (A)   Form of appeal. Any person entitled to service under §
151.158 may appeal from any notice and order or any action of the City Code
Enforcement Officer under this code by filing at the office of Planning and
Zoning a written appeal containing:
      (1)   A heading in the words: "Before the Board of Appeals of the
________ of ________".
      (2)   A caption reading: "Appeal of ________," giving the names of all
appellants participating in the appeal.
      (3)   A brief statement setting forth the legal interest of each of the
appellants in the building or the land involved in the notice and order.
      (4)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the specific
order or action protested, together with any material facts claimed to support
the contentions of the appellant.
      (5)   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought and the reasons why it is claimed the protested order or action should
be reversed, modified or otherwise set aside. If the desired relief sought has
any plans of repairs, the plan to repair must include a timeline. The timeline
shall provide how repair work will commence within 30 days of the order. The 30
day timeline may be extended if good cause to extend is found by the City Code
Enforcement Officer. The repair plans must also include a detailed list of
repairs and the contractors that will accomplish the repairs. Once repair work
commences, it must continue in a timely manner to correct all deficiencies
without undue delay.
      (6)   The signatures of all parties named as appellants and their
official mailing addresses.
      (7)   The verification (by declaration under penalty of perjury) of at
least one appellant as to the truth of the matters stated in the appeal.
      (8)   The appeal shall be filed within 30 days from the date of the
service of such order or action of the City Code Enforcement Officer; provided,
however, that if the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
immediately dangerous to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or
adjacent property and is ordered vacated and is posted in accordance with §
151.067, such appeal shall be filed within ten days from the date of the
service of the notice and order of the City Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Processing of appeal. Upon receipt of any appeal filed pursuant to
this section, the City Code Enforcement Officer shall present it at the next
regular or special meeting of the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Scheduling and noticing appeal for hearing. As soon as practicable
after receiving the written appeal, the Board of Appeals shall fix a date, time
and place for the hearing of the appeal by the Board. Such date shall be not
less than ten days or more than 60 days from the date the appeal was filed with
the Building Official. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be given at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing to each
appellant by the Secretary of the Board either by causing a copy of such notice
to be delivered to the appellant personally or by mailing a copy thereof,
postage prepaid, addressed to the appellant at his or her address shown on the
appeal.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.162 EFFECT OF FAILURE TO APPEAL.
   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with §
151.161 or a notice to vacate with the provisions of §
151.067 shall constitute a waiver of their right to an administrative hearing
and adjudication of the notice and order or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.163 SCOPE OF HEARING ON APPEAL.
   Only those matters or issues specifically raised by the appellant shall be
considered in the hearing of the appeal.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.164 STAYING OF ORDER UNDER APPEAL.
   Except for vacation orders made pursuant to §
151.066, enforcement of any notice and order of the City Code Enforcement
Officer issued under this code shall be stayed during the pending of an appeal
therefrom which is properly and timely filed.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.165 PROCEDURE FOR CONDUCT OF HEARING APPEALS.
   (A)   Hearing Examiners. The Board may appoint one or more Hearing Examiners
or designate one or more of its members to serve as Hearing Examiners to
conduct the hearings. The Examiner hearing the case shall exercise all powers
relating to the conduct of hearings until it is submitted by him or her to the
Board of decision.
   (B)   Record. A record of the entire proceedings shall be made by tape
recording or by any other means of permanent recording determined to be
appropriate by the Board.
   (C)   Reporting. The proceedings at the hearing shall also be reported by a
phonographic reporter if requested by any party thereto. A transcript of the
proceedings shall be made available to all parties upon request and upon
payment of the fee prescribed therefor. Such fees may be established by the
Board, but shall in no event be greater than the cost involved.
   (D)   Continuances. The Board may grant continuances for good cause shown;
however, when a Hearing Examiner has been assigned to such hearing, no
continuances may be granted except by the Hearing Examiner for good cause shown
so long as the matter remains before the Hearing Examiner.
   (E)   Oath/certification. In any proceeding under this subchapter, the
Board, any Board member, or the Hearing Examiner has the power to administer
oaths and affirmations and to certify to official acts.
   (F)   Reasonable dispatch. The Board and its representatives shall proceed
with reasonable dispatch to conclude any matter before it. Due regard shall be
shown for the convenience and necessity of any parties or their
representatives.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.166 FORM OF NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The notice to appellant shall be substantially in the following form, but
may include other information:
"You are hereby notified that a hearing will be held before (the Board of
Appeals or name of Hearing Examiner) at __________ on the ________ day of
__________, 20__, at the hour of ________, upon the notice and order served
upon you. You may be present at the hearing. You may be, but need not be,
represented by counsel. You may present any relevant evidence and will be given
full opportunity to cross-examine all witnesses testifying against you. You may
request the issuance of subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the
production of books, documents or other things by filing an affidavit therefor
with (Board of Appeals or name of Hearing Examiner)."
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.167 SUBPOENAS.
   (A)   Filing of affidavit. The Board or Examiner may obtain the issuance and
service of a subpoena for the attendance of witnesses or the production of
other evidence at a hearing upon the request of a member of the Board or upon
the written demand of any party. The issuance and service of such subpoena
shall be obtained upon the filing of an affidavit therefor which states the
name and address of the proposed witness; specifies the exact things sought to
be produced and the materiality thereof in detail to the issues involved; and
states that the witness has the desired things in his or her possession or
under his or her control. A subpoena need not be issued when the affidavit is
defective in any particular.
   (B)   Cases referred to Examiner. In cases where a hearing is referred to an
Examiner, all subpoenas shall be obtained through the Examiner.
   (C)   Penalties. Any person who refuses without lawful excuse to attend any
hearing or to produce material evidence in his or her possession or under his
or her control as required by any subpoena served upon such person as provided
for herein shall be guilty of a Class II misdemeanor.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.168 CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   (A)   Rules. Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses.
   (B)   Oral evidence. Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.
   (C)   Hearsay evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in
civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   (D)   Admissibility of evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the
purpose of supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be
sufficient in itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over
objection in civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state.
   (E)   Exclusion of evidence. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence
shall be excluded.
   (F)   Rights of parties. Each party shall have these rights, among others:
      (1)   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues
of the hearing;
      (2)   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
      (3)   To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
      (4)   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called him
or her to testify;
      (5)   To rebut the evidence against him or her; and
      (6)   To represent himself or herself or to be represented by anyone of
his or her choice who is lawfully permitted to do so.
   (G)   Official notice.
      (1)   What may be noticed. In reaching a decision, official notice may be
taken, either before or after submission of the case for decision, of any fact,
which may be judicially noticed by the courts of this state or of official
records of the Board or departments and ordinances of the city or rules and
regulations of the Board.
      (2)   Parties to be notified. Parties present at the hearing shall be
informed of the matters to be noticed, and these matters shall be noted in the
record, referred to therein, or appended thereto.
      (3)   Opportunity to refute. Parties present at the hearing shall be
given a reasonable opportunity, on request, to refute the officially noticed
matters by evidence or by written or oral presentation of authority, the manner
of such refutation to be determined by the Board or Hearing Examiner.
      (4)   Inspection of the premises. The Board or the Hearing Examiner may
inspect any building or premises involved in the appeal during the course of
the hearing, provided that:
         (a)   Notice of such inspection shall be given to the parties before
the inspection is made; and
         (b)   The Board or the Hearing Examiner shall state for the record
upon completion of the inspection the material facts observed and the
conclusions drawn therefrom. Each party then shall have a right to rebut or
explain the matters so stated by the Board or Hearing Examiner.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.169 METHOD AND FORM OF DECISION.
   (A)   Hearing before Board itself. Where a contested case is heard before
the Board itself, no member thereof who did not hear the evidence or has not
read the entire record of the proceedings shall vote on or take part in the
decision.
   (B)   Hearing before Examiner. If a contested case is heard by a Hearing
Examiner alone, the Hearing Examiner shall within a reasonable time (not to
exceed 90 days from the date the hearing is closed) submit a written report to
the Board. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered
and state the Examiner's findings, conclusions and recommendations. The report
also shall contain a proposed decision in such form that it may be adopted by
the Board as its decision in the case. All Examiner's reports filed with the
Board shall be matters of public record. A copy of each such report and
proposed decision shall be mailed to each party on the date they are filed with
the Board.
   (C)   Consideration of report by Board; notice. The Board shall fix the
time, date, and place to consider the Examiner's report and proposed decision.
Notice thereof shall be mailed to each interested party not less than five days
prior to the date fixed, unless it is otherwise stipulated by all of the
parties.
   (D)   Exceptions to report. Not later than two days before the date set to
consider the report, any party may file written exceptions to any part or all
of the Examiner's report and may attach thereto a proposed decision together
with written argument in support of such decision. By leave of the Board, any
party may present in its entirety, or may modify the proposed decision.
   (E)   Proposed decision not adopted. If the proposed decision is not adopted
the Board may decide the case upon the entire record before it, with or without
taking additional evidence, or may refer the case to the same or another
Hearing Examiner to take additional evidence. If the case is reassigned to a
Hearing Examiner, the successor Hearing Examiner shall prepare a report and
proposed decision as provided in division (B) above after any additional
evidence is submitted. Consideration of such proposed decision by the Board
shall comply with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   Form of decision. The decision shall be in writing and shall contain
findings of fact, a determination of the issues presented, and the requirements
to be complied with. A copy of the decision shall be delivered to the appellant
personally or sent by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 151.170 COMPLIANCE.
   If upon a final decision of the City Council, the person to whom such order
is directed shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any such order, a failure
will be prosecuted. Any such person who fails to comply with any such order is
guilty of a Class II misdemeanor and shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99. As provided for in §
10.99, the maximum possible penalty shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned in the county jail not longer than 30 days, or shall receive both
such fine and imprisonment. Each day in which a violation of this code or other
ordinance continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, maintain or
operate gasoline or oil filling stations within or upon any parking or sidewalk
within a distance of 75 feet of such street on any street intersecting said
Main Street within the fire limits of the city, and any such person who shall
erect construct, maintain or operate any gasoline or oil filling station within
such specified distance shall be guilty of maintaining a public nuisance and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 14.03.07)
   (C)   Any person who refuses without lawful excuse to attend any hearing or
to produce material evidence in his or her possession or under his or her
control as required by any subpoena served upon such person as provided for in
§
151.074 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.20)
   (D)   Any such person who fails to comply with any such order in §
151.077(A) is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 14.04.23)
   (E)   Any person operating a temporary building, who violates any of the
provisions of §§
151.120 through
151.123, shall be deemed guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor and fined pursuant to
§
10.99
(Prior Code, § 14.06.05)
   (F)   (1)   The penalties for violation of §§
151.135 through
151.142 shall be set forth in §
10.99.
      (2)   To protect public property and public interest, the city shall have
the authority to clean, stabilize or re-vegetate its own rights-of-way due to
noncompliant permit holders. The city shall also have the authority to assess
the permit holder for the work performed, in addition to all other remedies.
(Prior Code, § 14.08.08)
   (G)   Any person who shall continue any work after having been served a stop
work order in violation of §
151.141, with exception of work required by the order, shall be subject to
penalties set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 14.08.07)
   (H)   Failure to comply with an inspection warrant, once issued pursuant to
§§
151.155 through
151.170, shall be deemed a violation and will be prosecuted. As provided for in
§
10.99, the maximum possible penalty shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned in the county jail not longer than 30 days, or shall receive both
such fine and imprisonment. Each day in which a violation of this code or other
ordinance continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 14.08.07)
(Ord. 64, passed - -; Ord. 130, passed - -; Ord. 203, passed - -; Ord. 215,
passed - -; Ord. 438, passed - -; Ord. 576, passed - -; Ord. 600, passed - -;
Ord. 731, passed - -; Ord. 893, passed - -; Ord. 911, passed 9-4-2018)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Findings of fact
   
152.02   Statement of purpose
   
152.03   Objectives
   
152.04   Applicable lands
   
152.05   Development permit
   
152.06   Compliance
   
152.07   Interpretation
   
152.08   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.09   Permit procedures
   
152.10   Variances procedures
   
152.11   General standards
   
152.12   Specific standards
   
152.13   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
   
152.14   Standards of subdivision proposals
   
152.15   Nonconforming use
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy in flood hazard
areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands which are
inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damages.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.01) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, the
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.02) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.03 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money too costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.03) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.04 APPLICABLE LANDS.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.04) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.05) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.06 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.06) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.07 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.07) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.08 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This subchapter does
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
subchapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or by an officer
or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.08) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.09 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the City
Engineer on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but not be limited
to, the following plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, fill storage of materials; drainage facilities and the
location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure has been floodproofed;
      (3)   Provide a certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure meets the
floodproofing criteria in §
152.13(B); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.09) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.10 VARIANCES PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the city shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the City Engineer in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the reminder of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1) The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges; and
      (12)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (D)(1) through (D)(11) above
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (F)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (G)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued for:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local law or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation; and
      (4)   The City Engineer shall maintain the records of all appeal actions
and report any variances to the Federal Insurance Administration upon request.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.10) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.11 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (D)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (E)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (F)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (G)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal or plant
life is prohibited.
   (H)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not subject
to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or it
readily removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.11) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.12 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §
32.04 of this code of ordinances or §
152.04, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New or substantial improvement of any
commercial, industrial or other nonresidential basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure is
water- tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this division (B) are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in
§
152.09(C).
   (C)   Mobile homes.
      (1)   No mobile home shall be placed in floodway except in an existing
mobile home park or existing mobile home subdivision.
      (2)   (a)   All mobile homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties to ground
anchors.
         (b)   Specific requirements shall be that:
            1.   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of
the mobile home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per side;
            2.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with mobile homes less than 50
feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
            3.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds; and
            4.   Any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
      (3)   For new mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions; for
expansions to existing mobile home subdivisions; for existing mobile home parks
and mobile home subdivisions where the repair, reconstruction or improvement of
the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50%of value of the streets,
utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement has
commenced; and for mobile homes not placed in a mobile home park or mobile home
subdivision, require that:
         (a)   Stands or lots are elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so
that the lowest floor of the mobile home will be at or above the base flood
level;
         (b)   Adequate surface drainage and access for hauler are provided;
and
         (c)   In the instance of elevation of pilings, that lots are large
enough to permit steps, piling foundations are placed in stable soil no more
than ten feet apart, and reinforcement is provided for pilings more than six
feet above the ground level.
      (4)   An evacuation plan indicating alternate vehicular access and escape
routes shall be filed with the City Engineer for each mobile home subdivision
located within city limits. This plan shall be prepared according to the
directions of the City Engineer and shall be made available to concern federal
and local agencies.
   (D)   Floodways.
      (1)   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.04 are areas designated as floodways.
      (2)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectile and erosion
potential, the following provisions shall apply:
         (a)   Prohibits encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification by a
professional registered engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during
occurrence of the base flood discharge;
         (b)   If division (D)(2)(a) above is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §
152.06; and
         (c)   Prohibit the placement of any mobile homes, except in an
existing mobile home park or existing mobile home subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.12) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.13 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.04 are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefor, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the crown
of the nearest street to or above the depth number specified on the community’s
FIRM.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the crown
of the nearest street to or above the depth number specified on the FIRM; or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed to or above the level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.13) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.14 STANDARDS OF SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have pubic utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or
five acres.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.14) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.15 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A) A structure or the use of a structure or premises, which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   No such use or substantial improvement of that use shall be
expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in any way that increases its
nonconformity.
      (2)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the City Engineer in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
      (3)   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.15) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall constitute
a Class 2 misdemeanor. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 14.07.16) (Ord. 580, passed - -; Ord. 731, passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Authority
   
153.004   Jurisdiction
   
153.005   Enforcement
   
153.006   Plat required
   
153.007   Platting requirement exemption
   
153.008   Provisions of this chapter declared to be the minimum requirements
   
153.009   Effective date
Definitions
   
153.020   Definitions
Subdivision Application Procedure and Approval Process
   
153.035   Advisory meeting with the Zoning Administrator
   
153.036   Filing fee
   
153.037   Expedient plat procedures
   
153.038   Preliminary plat approval
   
153.039   Final plat approval
   
153.040   Re-plats
General Requirements and Minimum Standards of Design
   
153.055   General
   
153.056   Suitability of the land for subdivision development
   
153.057   Dedication of right-of-way and roadway width
   
153.058   Intersections
   
153.059   Private streets and alleys
   
153.060   Lots and blocks
   
153.061   Easement
Required Improvements Prerequisite to Final Approval
   
153.075   General
   
153.076   Property markers
   
153.077   Streets and alleys
   
153.078   Sidewalks
   
153.079   Water facilities
   
153.080   Sanitary sewers
   
153.081   Storm drainage
   
153.082   Electrical service
   
153.083   Oversized facilities
   
153.084   Assurances for the completion of minimum improvements
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   These regulations may be referred to as the “Official Subdivision
Regulations for the City of Winner”.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.01) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the subdivision of land
within the city, all lands proposed for annexation and those lands within the
extraterritorial jurisdictional area as established at the time of application.
   (B)   The further intent is to coordinate streets with other subdivisions
and land uses; to provide for coordinated utility, water and sanitation
infrastructure; to address drainage and flood control while minimizing cut and
fill operations; to foster efficient and orderly urban growth compatible with
the natural environment; to prevent premature land subdivision; to promote and
protect the interests of all members of the community; and to conform with the
goals, objectives and policies of the city comprehensive plan.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.02) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.003 AUTHORITY.
   In accordance with SDCL § 11-6-27 and any other authority provided by law or
as such statutes may be amended, the city does hereby exercise the power and
authority to review and approve or disapprove plats for the subdivision of land
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.03) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.004 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   These regulations shall apply to all subdivision of land, as defined
herein, located within the city corporate limits, all lands proposed for
annexation and those lands within the extraterritorial jurisdictional area as
established at the time of application.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person having control of any land within
the city corporate limits to subdivide or layout such land in lots, unless by
plat, in accordance with the laws of the state and the regulations contained
herein.
   (C)   The developer shall confer with the Zoning Administrator, or his or
her legally appointed designee, prior to preparing a subdivision plat. The
purpose of said meeting is to become thoroughly familiar with subdivision and
land use requirements, as well as, the goals, objectives, and policies of the
official city comprehensive plan affecting the territory in which the proposed
subdivision lies.
   (D)   No land, except that land platted in accordance with §
153.037 shall be subdivided until the developer has submitted the preliminary
plat and the final plat to the Planning Commission for public hearing and
recommendation to the City Council for its approval.
   (E)   No plat shall be legally recorded in the office of the County Register
of Deeds and no lots shall be sold from such plat unless and until approved as
herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.04) (Ord. 748, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator, or his or her
legally appointed designee, to enforce these regulations and to bring to the
attention of the City Attorney any violations or lack of compliance herewith.
   (B)   No owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
said subdivision has been reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission and
City Council, except that land platted in accordance with §
153.037. Once approved, said subdivision plat shall be recorded with the County
Register of Deeds, in accordance with the provisions of these regulations prior
to sale or transfer of any parcel.
   (C)   The subdivision of any lot or parcel of land, by metes and bounds
description(s) for the purpose of sale, transfer or lease with the intent of
evading these regulations, shall not be permitted. All such described
subdivisions shall be subject to all of the requirements contained in these
regulations.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations.
   (F)   No plat of any subdivision shall be allowed to be recorded with the
County Register of Deeds or have any validity until it has followed the
official process, including public hearings, and been reviewed and approved by
the Planning Commission and City Council. In the event a plat without official
approval is recorded, it shall be considered invalid and the City Council shall
institute proceedings to have the plat stricken from the records.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.05) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.006 PLAT REQUIRED.
   Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed, the developer, owner or his,
her or their authorized agent shall apply for and secure approval of such
proposed subdivision plat in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
Said approval shall occur prior to drafting or executing any contract for the
transfer of any part thereof or erection of any structure in such proposed
subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.06) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.007 PLATTING REQUIREMENT EXEMPTION.
   The Zoning Administrator may waive the platting requirement of this chapter
under the following conditions:
   (A)   The owners of the lots of record propose an adjustment to a common
property line;
   (B)   The requested waiver includes two or fewer lots;
   (C)   The total proposed adjustment does not exceed ten feet;
   (D)   The property line adjustment is able to be completed without the need
for the modification to any street, alley, easement, utility or municipal
facilities;
   (E)   The area covered by the proposed adjustment does not constitute a
portion or a phase of an approved preliminary plat;
   (F)   The proposed adjustment is in accordance with all requirements of the
applicable zoning district, and with the requirements of this chapter;
   (G)   The property owners shall present the proposed adjustment to the
Zoning Administrator or his or her designee;
   (H)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall review the
request for consistency with the standards set forth in this chapter;
   (I)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall make the
decision to approve or not approve the request only after proper review, and
within seven days of submittal of an application; and
   (J) The action of the Zoning Administrator, together with all modifications,
requirements and reasons thereof, shall be noted on all copies of the
adjustment application.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.07) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.008 PROVISIONS OF THIS CHAPTER DECLARED TO BE THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals or general welfare. Whenever the provisions of
this chapter require greater requirements or impose other higher standards than
are required in any other chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
Wherever the provisions of any other regulation require greater requirements or
impose other higher standards than are required by the provisions of this
chapter, the provisions of such regulation shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.08) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.009 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These regulations shall take effect on September 23, 2003 and all amendments
shall be in force from and after its adoption.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.09) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A way which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting
property.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind, and when separated by common, shared
walls without openings, each portion of such building so separated shall be
deemed a separate building.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINES. A line parallel or approximately parallel to the lot
lines at a specified distance therefrom, marking the minimum distance from the
lot line that the building may be erected.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Any legally adopted part or element of the city
comprehensive plan or any subsequent amendment.
   CONTRACTOR. The person who contracts with an individual or developer to
construct a building or structure on a parcel of land prepared by an individual
or developer.
   COVENANT. An agreement, convention or promise of two or more parties, by
deed in writing, signed and delivered, by which either of the parties pledges
himself or herself to the other that something is either done, or shall be
done, or shall not be done. The term is currently used primarily with respect
to promises in conveyance or other instruments relating to real estate.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet that terminates in a
vehicular turnaround and having an appropriate terminal for the safe and
convenient reversal of traffic turnaround.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of the property being platted or replatted or the
person designated by the owner as being responsible for the development of the
property. The terms SUBDIVIDER and DEVELOPER are synonymous and used
interchangeably, and shall include any person, partnership, firm, association,
corporation and/or any officer, agent, employee and trustee thereof who does or
participates in the doing of any act toward the subdivision of land within the
intent, scope and purview of this chapter. The DEVELOPER shall also be defined
as the builder or contractor if he or she is responsible for the construction
of buildings and/or structures or permanent improvements.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of any designated part of their property. For the purposes
of this chapter, the term shall primarily be used to describe utility access.
   FINAL PLAT. A plat of a tract of land meeting the requirements of these
regulations, including approval pursuant to this chapter, and is in proper form
for recording in the office of the County Register of Deeds.
   LOT. A tract, plot or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or for building development.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior
angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
   LOT LINE. Any boundary line of a lot.
   LOT LINE, EXTERIOR. The side lot line, which abuts the street on a corner
lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line or point of intersection of the side lot lines
farthest from and opposite the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. A lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot that is part of subdivision, created by an approved
subdivision or otherwise legally approved and recorded in the office of County
Register of Deeds.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. The transportation plan in the adopted city comprehensive
plan.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A system of describing and identifying land by measures
(metes) and direction (bounds) from an identifiable point of reference such as
a monument or other marker, the corner of intersecting streets, or in a rural
area, a tree or other permanent fixture.
   MONUMENT. A permanent structure set on a line to define the location of
property lines, important horizontal subdivision control points and other
important features on a plat.
   OWNER. The record owners of the fee or a vendee in possession, including any
person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations, or any
other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest in
the land sought to be subdivided.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, or any corporation, general
or limited partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association or
governmental or quasi-governmental entity.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Winner. The term
PLANNING COMMISSION shall be synonymous with Planning and Zoning Commission and
Commission, but shall not include Board of Adjustment or Zoning Board.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The map or maps of a proposed subdivision and specified
supporting materials, drawn and submitted in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter, to permit the evaluation of the proposal prior to detailed
engineering and design.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An individual currently certified and licensed to
practice as a registered professional engineer by the state. The ENGINEER must
be in possession of a current registration stamp.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. An individual currently certified and licensed to
practice as a registered licensed land surveyor by the state. The LAND SURVEYOR
must be in possession of a current registration seal.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied by a street, railroad, transmission
line, oil or gas pipeline, water lines, storm or sanitary sewer lines,
pedestrian walkways or other special use. The use of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for
platting purposes shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and
shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels
adjoining such RIGHT-OF-WAY and not included within the dimensions or areas of
such lots or parcels. The owner of the plat on which such RIGHT-OF-WAY is
established shall dedicate the RIGHT-OF-WAY to public use.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land
and the public right-of-way.
   ROAD OR STREET LINE. The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of
land and a contiguous road, street or alley.
   ROADWAY. The part of the street, road or highway that is improved, designed
or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic, but does not include the shoulder,
and, where a highway includes two or more separate ROADWAYS, the term ROADWAY
refers to any one ROADWAY separately and not to all of the ROADWAYS
collectively.
   STREET. A right-of-way established by a recorded plat to provide the primary
means of access to abutting property; to also include a way set-aside for
vehicular traffic, regardless of size or designation, but excluding private
driveways serving only one parcel of land.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A public street or highway intended to be used primarily
for fast or heavy through traffic; may be defined as a principal traffic
artery, more or less continuous across the city, which acts as a principal
connecting street with state and federal highways and includes each street
designated as an arterial street on the major street plan.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which carries traffic from local streets to
arterial streets and includes each street designated as a COLLECTOR STREET on
the major street plan.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street intended to provide access to other streets from
individual properties and to provide rights-of-way beneath it for various
utilities but not intended to be used for through traffic.
   STREET, PRIVATE. One that has not been dedicated, but rather reserved as an
access easement to property. The PRIVATE STREET shall be owned and maintained
by the property owners which it serves.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A public thoroughfare more than 20 feet in width.
   SUBDIVIDER. See DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, plots, sites or other divisions of land for the purpose of either
immediate or future sale or building development. It also includes a
resubdivision of lands or lots, and the establishment or dedication of a road,
highway, street or alley through a tract of land.
   TRACT. Used interchangeably with the term LOT particularly in the context of
subdivision, where a TRACT is subdivided into several lots, parcels, sites,
units, plots, condominiums, tracts or interests.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of this chapter by the Board of Appeals
where the literal enforcement of this chapter would deny to the property
enjoyed as a right by other property owners. Modification of the provisions of
these regulations, as applied to a specific piece of property. VARIANCES shall
be limited to height, bulk and yard requirements.
   WAIVER. Relief from the provisions of these regulations, as applied to a
specific piece of property.
   WATERCOURSES. Any natural or artificial stream, river, creek, ditch channel,
canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine or wash in which water
flows in a definite direction or course, either continuously or intermittently,
and has a definite channel, bed, and banks and includes any area adjacent
thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or flood water.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except for vegetation as permitted, and
except for permitted accessory buildings in rear yards. An open area of land,
other than a court, on the same lot with a main building or structure,
unoccupied and unobstructed except as otherwise provided or required by this
chapter and located between the main wall of the main building and one of the
lot lines of the said lot.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of a lot between the
front lot line and the nearest portion of any structure serving or attached to
any building or structure on the lot. An open, unoccupied space on a lot facing
a street and extending across the front of the lot between the side lot lines.
Measured from the road right-of-way to the structure.
   YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space extending across the rear of a lot
from one side lot line to the other side lot line. The part of a lot that
extends across the full width of a lot between the rear lot line and nearest
wall or supporting member of a principal building or structure.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard or open space on each side of the main building extending
from the side lot line to the side wall of the building, exclusive of permitted
projections and from the front yard to the rear yard, when an accessory
building is constructed as part of the main building, the SIDE YARD
requirements shall be the same for the accessory building as required for the
main building. The part of a lot which extends from a front yard to the rear
yard between the side lot line of a lot and the nearest wall or supporting
member of a building or structure except where the supporting member is
supporting an uncovered patio or uncovered deck.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. An administrative official who shall be known as the
Zoning Administrator and who shall be designated by the City Council. Said
official shall administer and enforce this chapter. He or she may be provided
with the assistance of such other persons as the City Council may designate.
   ZONING MAP. The official zoning map of the City of Winner, including all
amendments thereto.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The comprehensive zoning ordinance of the City of Winner,
as codified in Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances, including all duly
adopted amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, Ch. 15, Art. 2) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCEDURE
AND APPROVAL PROCESS
§ 153.035 ADVISORY MEETING WITH THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   Prior to the submission of any plat, the developer shall present a sketch of
the proposed plat to the Zoning Administrator, or his or her legally appointed
designee, for discussion and comments regarding the requirements for the
general layout of streets, reservations of land, street improvements, drainage,
sewerage, fire protection and similar matters, as well as the availability of
services.
(Prior Code, § 15.03.01) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.036 FILING FEE.
   (A)   A filing fee shall be deposited at the City Administrator’s office for
all plats and for all re-plats at the rate shown below:
 
Two lots or less   $50
Three lots or more $100 plus $10 per platted lot
 
   (B)   Publishing costs for notices related to plats shall be in addition to
the fees above and shall be paid by the developer. All required fees shall be
paid prior to filing and registering the plat with the County Register of
Deeds. Failure by the developer to pay all required fees will result in
suspension or revocation of the plat.
(Prior Code, § 15.03.02) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.037 EXPEDIENT PLAT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The purpose of the expedient plat is to allow approval of a plat
through accelerated action in certain circumstances with review and approval by
the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission and City Council.
   (B)   A developer may request an expedient plat when the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   The plat includes two or fewer lots;
      (2)   The total area covered by the plat does not exceed two acres;
      (3)   The approved plat shall not be further subdivided unless in
compliance with this chapter;
       (4)   Every lot created by the plat has frontage on an existing paved
street;
       (5)   Every lot within the plat is able to be served by an existing
street and other municipal facilities;
      (6)   The lot included within the plat does not constitute a portion or a
phase of an approved preliminary plat;
      (7)   Each lot created by the plat complies with all requirements of the
applicable zoning district, and with the requirements of this chapter; and
      (8)   Dedication of street or alley right-of-way, if applicable, complies
with the comprehensive plan and general design standards of the city.
   (C)   The procedure for expedient plat approval:
      (1)   Whenever an expedient plat is proposed, the developer shall submit
three blueline or computer aided design (CAD) copies at a minimum scale of 100
feet to an inch. The plat may be submitted to the City Zoning Administrator, at
any time;
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall review the
plat for consistency with the standards set forth in this chapter;
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall make the
decision to process the application as an expedient plat only after proper
review, and within seven days of submittal of an application;
      (4)   The action of the Zoning Administrator, together with all notes,
applicable requirements and reasons thereof, shall be noted on all copies of
the expedient plat and forwarded to the Planning Commission;
      (5)   Following review at a public meeting and due consideration of the
expedient plat, the Planning Commission shall transmit all copies of the plat
to the City Council, together with its recommendations within one business day.
Said recommendations shall include approval, disapproval or suggestions for
modification and the reasons thereof, and a report of the affect of said plat
with regard to this chapter, the comprehensive plan and zoning regulations;
      (6)   Said recommendations shall be of an advisory nature only. If the
Planning Commission does not act within 15 days of receipt of the complete and
correct plat from the Zoning Administrator, the expedient plat shall be deemed
to have received a favorable recommendation in all respects, and shall receive
due consideration by the City Council;
      (7)   Following a public meeting and due consideration of the expedient
plat, the City Council shall approve, disapprove or modify the recommendations
of the Planning Commission. The Council may impose requirements, in conformance
with this chapter, as deemed necessary and appropriate for final approval;
      (8)   Approval of the expedient plat by the City Council shall indicate
approval and acceptance of the plat;
      (9)   One copy shall be returned to the developer, one copy returned to
Planning Commission and one copy forwarded to the City Council;
      (10)   An expedient plat shall be recorded with the County Register of
Deeds within two months from the date of approval. Any expedient plat not
recorded within such time shall be considered invalid. It shall be the
applicant’s responsibility to submit all required copies of the plat to the
city in time to acquire city signatures and to file the plat before the two-
month period expires. An expedient plat shall be recorded with the County
Register of Deeds in the same manner as required for a final plat. An extension
of time may be applied for by the developer, in writing along with the reasons
for the request, and granted by the City Council;
      (11)   Re-approval of an expedient plat by the City Council may be
applied for at any time after the approved plat becomes invalid. If the Zoning
Administrator, Planning Commission or City Council should deem changes
necessary in the re-approval of an expedient plat in light of new or
significant information or requirements, they shall so inform the developer. An
expedient plat submitted for re-approval shall be prepared in accordance with,
and comply with, the requirements of this chapter, the comprehensive plan,
official zoning regulations and all other applicable requirements in effect at
the time such application for re-approval is formally filed with the City
Administrator;
      (12)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee may, for any
reason, elect to present a request for an expedient plat to the Planning
Commission for action. Any request for an expedient plat, which the Zoning
Administrator refuses to accept, shall be placed on the following Planning
Commission agenda for action. Any expedient plat that is presented to the
Planning Commission shall be processed in accordance with the procedures set
forth in §§
153.038 and
153.039; and
      (13)   An expedient plat shall contain all information required for a
final plat, as prescribed by §
153.039(D).
(Prior Code, § 15.03.03) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.038 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   The procedure for preliminary plat approval:
      (1)   Whenever a preliminary plat is proposed, the developer shall submit
three blueline or computer aided design (CAD) copies at a minimum scale of 100
feet to an inch. The preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator, a minimum of seven days prior to the Planning Commission
meeting. The Planning Commission reserves the right to waive the minimum
submission date;
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat for
consistency with the standards set forth in this chapter. After the preliminary
review, a public hearing shall be set and held for due consideration of the
plat by the Planning Commission and for public review and input;
      (3)   A notice of public hearing shall be given at least once, ten days
in advance by publication in a legal newspaper;
      (4)   Written notice of the public hearing shall be sent to the
applicant, agent and all owners of real property lying within 150 of feet of
the property for which plat(s) is sought;
      (5)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person,
or by agent or attorney;
      (6)   Following a public hearing and after due consideration of the
preliminary plat, the Planning Commission shall transmit all copies of the
preliminary plat to the City Council, together with its recommendations, within
60 days after receipt of the complete and correct plat thereof. Said
recommendations shall include approval, disapproval or suggestions for
modification and the reasons thereof, and a report of the affect of said plat
with regard to the city comprehensive plan;
      (7)   Said recommendations shall be of an advisory nature only. If the
Planning Commission does not act within 65 days of receipt of the complete and
correct plat from the Zoning Administrator, the preliminary plat shall be
deemed to have received a favorable recommendation in all respects, and shall
receive due consideration by the City Council;
      (8)   The Planning Commission shall forward all copies of the preliminary
plat to the City Council for public hearing and review;
      (9)   Notice of public hearing shall be given at least once, ten days in
advance by publication in a legal newspaper;
      (10)   Written notice of the public hearing shall be sent to the
applicant, agent and all owners of real property lying within 150 of the
property for which plat(s) is sought;
      (11)   A notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the
property upon which action is pending. Such notice shall be not less than 17
inches in height and 11 inches in width with a white background and black
letters not less than one inch in height. Such posted notice shall be so placed
upon such premises that it is easily visible from the nearest public access
point and shall be so posted at least ten days before the date of such hearing.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, mutilate, destroy or change such
posted notice prior to such hearings;
      (12)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person,
or by agent or attorney;
      (13)   Following a public hearing and due consideration of the
preliminary plat, the City Council shall approve, disapprove or modify the
recommendations of the Planning Commission. The Council may impose
requirements, grant waivers or variances, in conformance with this chapter, as
deemed necessary and appropriate for final approval;
      (14)   The action of the City Council, together with all modifications,
requirements, variances and reasons thereof, shall be noted on all copies of
the preliminary plat;
      (15)   One copy shall be returned to the developer, one copy relayed to
Planning Commission, and one copy retained by the Zoning Administrator;
      (16)   Approval of the preliminary plat by the City Council shall
indicate approval of the development concept only, and does not constitute an
acceptance or approval of the subdivision plat; therefore, no building permits
shall be issued on the approval of the preliminary plat; and
      (17)   The approval of the preliminary plat shall lapse unless a final
plat, based thereon, is submitted within two years from the date of such
approval. An extension of time may be applied for by the developer, in writing
along with the reasons for the request, and granted by the City Council.
   (B)   The preliminary plat shall meet the standards of design as set forth
in §§
153.055 through
153.061 and shall include the following information:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
      (2)   The name shall not duplicate, be the same in spelling or alike in
pronunciation with the name of any other recorded subdivision, unless it is an
extension of or adjacent to said subdivision;
      (3)   The names of all adjacent subdivisions, location of all lot and
block lines, easements, dedications, rights-of-way and adjoining unplatted
property shall be labeled as such;
      (4)   Vicinity map to scale showing the location of the preliminary plat
and all other property within 660 feet in every direction, including those
across streets, streams, rights-of-way or similar delineations;
      (5)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owner, developer
and surveyor;
      (6)   The legal description and notations stating acreage, scale, north
arrow and date of survey;
      (7)   A systematic lot and block numbering pattern, lot lines and street
names, consistent with city and county patterns;
      (8)   Location of property lines, streets, alleys and existing utilities
with size of lines, underground installations and other significant features;
      (9)   Current zoning on affected lands, as well as all adjacent property,
including those across streets, streams, rights-of-way or similar delineations;
      (10)   Zoning for proposed subdivision;
      (11)   Contours at slope intervals of not greater than two feet; also,
the locations of watercourses, bridges, wooded areas and such other topographic
features as may be pertinent of the subdivision;
      (12)   Proposed easements, dedications and reservations of land to be
considered for sale or dedication to public use;
      (13)   Copies of proposed deed restrictions or covenants, if any, shall
be attached to the preliminary plat;
      (14)   Location of proposed culverts, storm sewers, retention basins,
buffers and other drainage provisions. Calculations for quantity and flow rate
supporting culvert size and location shall be included with statement of impact
on future drainage;
      (15)   The existing and future drainage patterns for the area should be
generally shown along with any proposed cut and fill operations which may alter
the existing drainage patterns for direction, quantity or flow rate; and
      (16)   Notations should be made on the plat regarding the location of the
nearest available sewer and water connections, the direction of the proposed
sanitary sewer flow, availability of capacity and the necessity for any lift
stations.
(Prior Code, § 15.03.04) (Ord. 748, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.039 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, and it may constitute only a portion of the preliminary plat, which
the developer proposes to record and develop.
   (B)   The procedure for final plat approval:
      (1)   Three copies of the final plat and required supplemental material
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator, or his or her legally appointed
designee, who shall transmit them to the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission. Such filing shall take place at least seven days prior to the
meeting of the Planning Commission at which it is to be considered;
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the final plat for consistency
with the standards set forth in this chapter and with items considered under
preliminary approval;
      (3)   The Commission shall make a finding that it is empowered under the
section of this chapter described in the application to approve, modify or deny
the final plat. The Commission shall transmit all copies of the final plat to
the City Council, together with its recommendations, within 65 days after
receipt thereof. Said recommendations shall include approval, disapproval or
suggestions for modification and the reasons thereof, and a report of the
affect of said plat with regard to the city comprehensive plan;
   (C)   Said recommendations shall be of an advisory nature only. If the
Planning Commission does not act within 65 day of receipt of the complete and
correct plat, the final plat shall be deemed to have received a favorable
recommendation in all respects, and shall receive due consideration by the City
Council:
      (1)   Following review and due consideration of the final plat, the City
Council shall approve, disapprove or modify the recommendations of the Planning
Commission and shall impose those requirements or grant those waivers or
variances in conformance with this chapter as deemed necessary and appropriate
by the City Council for final approval;
      (2)   When the final plat has been approved by the City Council, one copy
shall be returned to the developer with the approval of the City Council
certified thereon, for recording with the County Register of Deeds as an
official plat of record within 90 days. Failure to file will require the
applicant to again complete the final plat process; and
      (3)   The City Council will transmit a certified copy to the Director of
Equalization for his or her records.
   (D)   The final plat shall comply with the standards of design as set forth
in §§
153.055 through
153.061 and shall present the following information:
      (1) The original or reproducible final plat shall be drawn in black ink
upon tracing cloth or tracing vellum and shall be of uniform size, 15 inches by
26 inches or eight and one-half inches by 14 inches in accordance with state
law and any amendment thereto. The scale shall be one inch equals 100 feet or
greater;
      (2)   Date, title, name and location of subdivision, graphic scale and
true north line;
      (3)   All dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall
be tied to primary control points. Locations and descriptions of said control
points shall be given. Except where deemed clearly unreasonable or unfeasible
by the City Council, these control points shall be located on section corners
of the coordinate system of the state;
      (4)   Tract boundary lines, property lines of residential lots, and other
sides with accurate dimensions to the nearest one hundredth of a foot, bearings
of deflection angles, radii, arc and central angles of all curves with
dimensions to the nearest minute;
      (5)   Name and right-of-way width of each street, easement or other
right-of-way;
      (6)   Block numbers, lot numbers, lot lines and frontage dimensions;
      (7)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated
or reserved;
      (8)   Minimum building setback lines;
      (9)   Location and description of monuments;
      (10)   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions and streets, the
location of adjoining unplatted properties, and the names and addresses of the
owners of adjoining unplatted properties;
      (11)   Certification on plat of title showing that the applicant(s) is
the owner(s), that the making of the plat receives their consent and is in
accordance with their desires, and a statement by such owner dedicating
streets, rights-of-way and any other sites for public use;
      (12)   Certification on plat by a registered land surveyor as to the
accuracy of survey and plat;
      (13)   Certification by the Zoning Administrator, or his or her legally
appointed designee, when individual sewerage disposal or water systems are to
be installed;
      (14)   Certification that the developer has complied with one of the
following alternatives:
         (a)   All the improvements have been installed in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter, said improvements shall be inspected by a
professional engineer and certified as complying with approved plans and
specifications; or
         (b)   A security bond, certified check or letter of assurance/credit
has been posted with the City Administrator in sufficient amount to assure such
completion of all required improvements.
      (15)   Cross-sections, profiles and grades of streets, curbs, gutters and
sidewalks showing location of in-street utilities, and drawn to the city’s
standard scales and elevations shall be attached to the final plat;
      (16)   Protective covenants shall either be placed directly on the final
plat or attached thereto in form for recording;
      (17)   Certification on plat by the Planning Commission, Mayor and the
Zoning Administrator that the plat has been approved for recording in the
office of the County Register of Deeds; and
      (18)   The developer shall provide copies of all plats in a digital
format whenever possible.
   (E)   No final subdivision plat shall be approved by the City Council or
accepted for record by the County Register of Deeds until the required
improvements have been installed in accordance with the preliminary plat and
approved by the City Council. In lieu of such prior construction, the City
Council may accept a security bond in an amount equal to the estimated cost of
installation of the required improvements, whereby improvements may be
completed in the event of default of the developer.
(Prior Code, § 15.03.05) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.040 RE-PLATS.
   (A)   If the land proposed for platting is a re-subdivision, it shall
require a preliminary plat and a plat of the re-subdivision, requiring the same
review and approval procedures as for the preliminary plat and final plat,
unless the re-subdivision meets the requirements set forth below.
   (B)   A re-plat will be permitted where:
      (1)   The perimeter of the tract being re-platted shall not be altered by
the re-plat;
      (2)   Either the grades shall not be changed from the drainage plan which
was submitted and approved with the original plat or if the grades are going be
changed, then a drainage plan shall be submitted and approved for the re-
subdivision;
      (3)   The re-plat shall not significantly change any plans that have been
prepared for the placement of utilities in the subdivision. If the re-
subdivision meets these stipulations, the re-plat may be submitted as a plat,
provided the previous platting lines are shown;
      (4)   If the subdivision meets the requirements set forth for a re-plat,
it shall be approved or disapproved within 90 days after submission to the City
Council. A plat shall have been considered submitted when filed with the Zoning
Administrator and placed on the Planning Commission agenda. Otherwise, such
plat shall be deemed approved and a certificate to that effect shall be issued
by the City Council on demand; provided, however, that the developer may waive
this requirement and consent to the extension of such period; and
      (5)   The new plat shall specifically describe all previous plats to be
vacated including the book and page or document numbers of all existing plats
in the Register of Deeds office. The new plat shall specifically state that all
previous plats so listed are to be vacated in whole or part. The new plat shall
comply with all public highway provisions.
(Prior Code, § 15.03.06) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND MINIMUM
STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 153.055 GENERAL.
   (A)   The City Council shall impose the following general requirements and
compel all developers to comply with the principles of design, set forth in
this chapter, in the layout of subdivisions hereinafter described.
   (B)   All proposed subdivision regulations shall conform to the city
comprehensive plan.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.01) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.056 SUITABILITY OF THE LAND FOR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   If the City Council finds that land proposed to be subdivided is
unsuitable for subdivision development due to flooding, bad drainage, steep
slopes, rock formations and other such conditions as may increase the danger of
health, life, property, aggravate erosion or flood hazards, and if from
adequate investigations conducted by all public agencies concerned it has been
determined that in the best interest of the public the land should not be
platted and developed for the purpose proposed, the City Council shall not
approve the land for subdivision.
   (B)   If the City Council determines the proposed subdivision lies within an
environmentally sensitive area, the developer shall be responsible for
conducting an environmental assessment pursuant to the National Environmental
Policy Act (NEPA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4321 et seq, Pub.L. 91-190. If the
proposed development is granted a finding of no significant impact, the
developer shall formulate adequate methods to address concerns raised by
respondent agencies that will be created by the subdivision and development of
the land.
   (C)   The City Council may refuse to approve what it considers to be
scattered or premature subdivision of land which would necessitate an excessive
expenditure of public funds for the supply of such services, such as undue
maintenance or installation costs for adequate streets, utilities or other
items.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.02) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.057 DEDICATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY AND ROADWAY WIDTH.
   (A)   In undeveloped or vacant areas, streets shall be identified and
classified by the City Council. The location of major streets shall conform to
the current street system plan, as described within the city comprehensive
plan.
   (B)   Streets shall have widths not less than as follows:
 
Street Type Right-of-Way
Alleys      20 ft.
Arterials*  100 ft.
Collectors  60 ft.
Local       60 ft.
* 80 ft. if there is 50 ft. of right-of-way provided for an access road on
both sides of the arterial
 
   (C)   The following roadway widths shall be required at a minimum; however,
the City Council can require greater roadway widths where deemed necessary.
Curbs, gutters and streets shall be constructed in accordance with the city’s
specifications.
 
Type       Surface Width
Arterials  66 ft.
Collectors 38 ft.
Local      34 ft.
Alley      16 ft.
 
(Prior Code, § 15.04.03) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.058 INTERSECTIONS.
   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever practical. In
hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a leveling area
shall be provided having not greater than a 2% rate at a distance of 60 feet,
measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.04) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.059 PRIVATE STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The use of private streets shall be discouraged, however, in cases where a
private street is allowed, it shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   The developer shall comply with the following construction standards
when developing a private street.
      (1)   Driving surfaces shall be constructed of an all weather material.
      (2)   Driving surfaces shall be no less than 26 feet in width, a greater
width may be required when deemed necessary by the City Council.
      (3)   Driving surfaces shall be maintained in passable condition.
      (4)   Driving surfaces shall have a minimum height clearance of 14 feet
six inches.
   (B)   The city will not subsequently accept a private street or road for
dedication unless and until it is brought to the city construction standards as
approved by the City Engineer and provides adequate rights-of-way without
requiring variances for setbacks.
   (C)   Alleys may be permitted in residential districts when conditions
warrant an alternative means of access.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.05) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.060 LOTS AND BLOCKS.
   (A)   All subdivision boundary corners shall be marked with monuments to
grade and noted on the plat.
   (B)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
regard to:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites available to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated;
      (2)   The need for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
traffic and utilities; and
      (3)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (C)   Block lengths shall be between 300 and 1,000 feet and shall normally
be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots of an appropriate depth.
   (D)   Lot dimensions shall be appropriate for the location of the
subdivision and conform to the requirements of Chapter 154 of this code of
ordinances.
   (E)   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for commercial and
industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide off-street parking and loading
for the use contemplated.
   (F)   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to allow for
two front yards.
   (G)   All interior lot lines shall be a straight line or a series of
straight lines. Curved interior lot lines shall be prohibited.
   (H)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to streets except on curves
where they shall be radial except when otherwise approved.
   (I)   Each lot shall abut a dedicated public right-of-way or approved
private street.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.06) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.061 EASEMENT.
   (A)   All easements shall be shown on the plat.
   (B)   Except where alleys are permitted for the purpose, the City Council
shall require easements deemed necessary at least 20 feet in width centered on
rear and side lot lines.
   (C)   Where topographical or other conditions warrant side easements or
easements across lots, easements at least 20 feet in total width shall be
provided.
   (D)   The property owner whose property is subject to such easements shall
be responsible for its maintenance. The property owners shall keep the easement
clear of any structure, temporary or permanent, landscaping, debris or trees
whatsoever except that fences, shrubs and lawn grass, which shall be regularly
mowed and annual vegetation such as fruits, vegetables, flora and fauna may be
grown thereon. Any improvements or activity within an easement shall be done at
the risk of the property owner who shall bear the cost of removal, relocation
or trimming carried out as part of the utility or city.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.07) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS PREREQUISITE TO FINAL APPROVAL
§ 153.075 GENERAL.
   (A)   The developer is required to install or construct the improvements
hereinafter described prior to receiving approval of his or her final plat or
having secured and provided the bonds or other securities, which guarantee such
required improvements.
   (B)   All public and private water mains, sanitary sewers, laterals and
storm sewers shall be installed as necessary to prevent the future cutting of
pavement of any street, sidewalk or other required pavement.
   (C)   The developer is required to have a professional engineer, licensed by
the state, design and inspect all proposed streets and utility installations.
(Prior Code, § 15.05.01) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.076 PROPERTY MARKERS.
   The corners of all lots and the beginning and ending of all curves on
property lines shall be accurately marked on the ground with five-eighths inch
diameter iron rods at least 18 inches long. The iron rod shall be furnished
with a plastic or metal cap with the surveyor’s name or initials and the
surveyor’s state registration number.
(Prior Code, § 15.05.02) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.077 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)    The developer shall construct all proposed streets.
   (B)   The proposed streets shall be designed and inspected by a professional
engineer, licensed by the state, at the cost of the developer and have the
following minimum improvements:
      (1)   The removal of all top soil and grading to meet drainage
requirements;
      (2)   Whether a concrete, bituminous or asphalt street is proposed, the
developer will be responsible for curb and gutter and the standard six-inch
base course, the city will be responsible for surfacing with permanent surface
paving as determined by the city, at a time when allowed by budget and
availability of materials. The city shall provide for completion of a permanent
street surface within two years following completion of the developer’s
obligations under this chapter for design and installation of water
distribution system, sanitary sewers, drainage, curb and gutter, and sufficient
base course. The city will be responsible for dust control if paving is to be
delayed and the city may utilize a temporary paving material such are recycled
asphalt until such time as the permanent paving is installed; and
      (3)   A 32-inch “B” curb with gutter is required, surmountable curbs are
allowed.
   (C)   The above standards are the minimum acceptable standards; the city
reserves the right to modify these standards upon review by the City Engineer
and approval of the City Council.
   (D)   Construction methods and materials shall meet or exceed standards in
the most recent edition of Standard Specifications for Roads and Bridges as
published by the State Department of Transportation; unless waived by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 15.05.03) (Ord. 748, passed - - ; Ord. 1056, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 153.078 SIDEWALKS.
   The developer shall be responsible for the following required improvements.
   (A)   The City Council may require, in order to facilitate pedestrian access
from streets to schools, parks, playgrounds or other nearby streets, the
construction of sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be constructed to a minimum of four
inches of depth and four feet in width and to standards approved by the city.
   (B)   A median strip of grassed or landscaped areas at least three feet wide
shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs.
   (C)   The City Council, in its discretion, may waive the requirement that
the applicant install sidewalks prior to the signing of the subdivision plat,
and that as an alternative, require the applicant to apply for a building
permit to construct sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 15.05.04) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.079 WATER FACILITIES.
   Where the public water supply is accessible or available to the proposed
subdivision, the developer shall construct, at his, her or their expense or
through agreement of special assessment, a complete water distribution system
which shall adequately serve all lots and which shall include appropriately
spaced fire hydrants, and this system shall be properly connected with the
public water supply. All individual service lines shall be tied to the main and
stubbed to the property line, at a minimum. The water facilities shall be
designed and inspected by a professional engineer retained by the developer and
reviewed by the City Engineer. All new construction must comply with standards
established by the city. Each lot within the subdivision area shall be provided
with a water service line connection. City standard size on all new water lines
to individual lots shall be in accordance with the Plumbing Code then in effect
as enacted or adopted by the state.
(Prior Code, § 15.05.05) (Ord. 748, passed - -; Ord. 861, passed - -)
§ 153.080 SANITARY SEWERS.
    Where the public sanitary sewer system is accessible or available to the
proposed subdivision, the developer shall construct, at his, her or their
expense or through agreement of special assessment, a subdivision sewer system
to adequately serve all lots and connect the subdivision system to the public
system. All individual service lines shall be tied to the main and stubbed to
the property line, at a minimum. The sanitary sewer facilities shall be
designed and inspected by a professional engineer retained by the developer and
reviewed by the City Engineer. All new construction must comply with standards
established by the city. Any sanitary sewer line set a depth of over four feet
will require schedule 40 PVC or pipe of an equivalent strength.
(Prior Code, § 15.05.06) (Ord. 748, passed - - ; Ord. 1056, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 153.081 STORM DRAINAGE.
    An adequate drainage system, including necessary curb and gutter, open
ditches, pipes, culverts, intersectional drains, drop inlets, bridges and the
like for the proper drainage of all surface water shall be provided. Cross
drains shall be provided to accommodate all natural water flow, and they shall
be of sufficient length to permit full width roadways and required slopes. The
stormwater facilities are to be designed and inspected by a professional
engineer retained by the developer and reviewed by the City Engineer. The
designed system must show current and future drainage, and show adequacy to
avoid adverse impact on other properties and infrastructure. All new
construction must comply with standards established by the city.
(Prior Code, § 15.05.07) (Ord. 748, passed - - ; Ord. 1056, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 153.082 ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   (A)    The city is responsible for installation of all primary lines,
transformers, ground rods, ground rod clamps, and meters except multiple or
gang sockets for multi-user buildings. All lots shall be surveyed with all
structures, sidewalks, water and sanitary sewer service, curb and gutter,
streets and proposed landscaping clearly identified prior to installation of
electrical service to the area.
   (B)   Individual property owners are responsible for installation of the
service line from either an underground main or a main line pole to the
structure, including the meter loop.
(Prior Code, § 15.05.08) (Ord. 748, passed - - ; Ord. 1056, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 153.083 OVERSIZED FACILITIES.
   The city will stand the cost of “oversizing” improvements within a
subdivision if it is adjudged that such oversized improvements are necessary to
serve large areas of land not in the subdivision and if the cost of such
oversized improvements places a hardship on the developer.
(Prior Code, § 15.05.09) (Ord. 748, passed - -)
§ 153.084 ASSURANCES FOR THE COMPLETION OF MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)    No building permits will be issued until the developer has installed
sanitary sewer and water service, in accordance with the city’s standards, and
has completed construction of storm drainage as determined necessary by the
developer’s engineer and agreed to by the City Engineer, as well as completed
grading the street past the property upon which a building is to be
constructed.
   (B)   Before final approval of a plat is given, the developer must provide a
bond with corporate surety or other assurances satisfactory to the city, which
will assure the city that the construction of water, sanitary sewer, storm
sewer, road construction and other necessary improvements as approved by the
City Council will be completed within three years. No extension of time beyond
this three-year period unless the bond remains valid and enforceable throughout
such extended period.
(Prior Code, § 15.05.10) (Ord. 1056, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to any or all of the following:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $500 for each violation;
      (2)   Imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days for each violation;
      (3)   By both fine and imprisonment; and
      (4) An action for civil injunctive relief, pursuant to SDCL § 21-8.
   (B)   In addition, all costs and expenses involved in the case shall be paid
by the defendant; each day such violation continues shall be a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any architect, engineer, surveyor, builder, contractor, developer,
agent or other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains
such violation may each be found guilty of a violation of this chapter and be
subject to the same penalties herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.05) (Ord. 748, passed - - ; Ord. 1056, passed 8-7-2023)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
Title, Purpose and Jurisdiction
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Provisions to be minimum requirements
Definitions
   
154.015   General
   
154.016   Definitions
Official Boundary Map and Boundary Interpretation
   
154.030   General
   
154.031   Zoning map changes
   
154.032   Zoning map replacement
   
154.033   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
Application of District Regulations
   
154.045   General
   
154.046   Zoning affects every building and use
   
154.047   Performance standards
   
154.048   Open space, off-street parking and loading space; restrictions
   
154.049   Yard and lot reduction prohibited
   
154.050   Road or public way vacation
   
154.051   Annexation
   
154.052   Unclassified or unspecified uses
   
154.053   Prohibited uses
Establishment of Districts
   
154.065   Districts created
   
154.066   District regulations
Agricultural District (AG)
   
154.080   Intent
   
154.081   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.082   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.083   Conditional uses
   
154.084   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.085   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.086   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.087   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.088   Maximum height
Single-Family Residential District (R-1)
   
154.100   Intent
   
154.101   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.102   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.103   Conditional uses
   
154.104   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.105   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.106   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.107   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.108   Maximum height
Two-Family Residential District (R-2)
   
154.120   Intent
   
154.121   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.122   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.123   Conditional uses
   
154.124   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.125   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.126   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.127   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.128   Maximum height
Two-Family Residential District Manufactured Homes Allowed (R-2MH)
   
154.140   Intent
   
154.141   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.142   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.143   Conditional uses
   
154.144   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.145   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.146   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.147   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.148   Maximum height
Multi-Family Residential District (R-3)
   
154.160   Intent
   
154.161   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.162   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.163   Conditional uses
   
154.164   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.165   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.166   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.167   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.168   Maximum height
Multi-Family Residential District Manufactured Homes Allowed (R-3MH)
   
154.180   Intent
   
154.181   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.182   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.183   Conditional uses
   
154.184   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.185   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.186   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.187   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.188   Maximum height
Manufactured Home Park District (MHP)
   
154.200   Intent
   
154.201   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.202   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.203   Conditional uses
   
154.204   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.205   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.206   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.207   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.208   Manufactured home park application requirements
   
154.209   Manufactured home regulations within a manufactured home park
Recreation, Education and Conservation District (REC)
   
154.220   Intent
   
154.221   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.222   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.223   Conditional uses
   
154.224   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.225   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.226   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.227   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.228   Maximum height
Highway Commercial District (C-1)
   
154.240   Intent
   
154.241   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.242   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.243   Conditional uses
   
154.244   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.245   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.246   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.247   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.248   Maximum height
Commercial District (C-2)
   
154.260   Intent
   
154.261   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.262   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.263   Conditional uses
   
154.264   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.265   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.266   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.267   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.268   Maximum height
Commercial District Downtown (C-2DT)
   
154.280   Intent
   
154.281   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.282   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.283   Conditional uses
   
154.284   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.285   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.286   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.287   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.288   Maximum height
   
154.289   Building approval
Healthcare District (H)
   
154.300   Intent
   
154.301   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.302   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.303   Conditional uses
   
154.304   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.305   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.306   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.307   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.308   Maximum height
Industrial District (I)
   
154.320   Intent
   
154.321   Principal permitted uses and structures
   
154.322   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
154.323   Conditional uses
   
154.324   Classification of unlisted uses
   
154.325   Prohibited uses and structures
   
154.326   Minimum lot requirements
   
154.327   Minimum yard requirements
   
154.328   Maximum height
Planned Unit Development District (PUD)
   
154.340   Intent
   
154.341   Application procedure
   
154.342   Subsequent performance
Airport Overlay District
   
154.355   Purpose
   
154.356   Height restrictions
   
154.357   Land use safety zoning
   
154.358   General use restrictions
   
154.359   Zone A use restrictions
   
154.360   Zone B use restrictions
   
154.361   Nonconforming uses
   
154.362   Permits, variances and conditional uses
Supplementary District Regulations
   
154.375   Fences, walls and hedges
   
154.376   Accessory buildings and structures
   
154.377   Erection of more than one principal structure on a lot
   
154.378   Structures to have access
   
154.379   Parking, storage or use of major recreational equipment
   
154.380   Parking lots
   
154.381   Temporary buildings
   
154.382   Unique lot requirements
   
154.383   Modular home and manufactured home performance standards
   
154.384   Existing trailer parks
   
154.385   Floodway
   
154.386   Landfills and restricted use sites
   
154.387   Quarries and/or mining
   
154.388   Towers
   
154.389   Swimming pools
   
154.390   Required conditions
   
154.391   Location of carnivals
   
154.392   Utility sheds
   
154.393   Flammable materials storage and transportation equipment
   
154.394   Wind energy conversion systems
   
154.395   Wireless communication facilities
   
154.396   Cannabis dispensaries
Signs
   
154.410   Sign regulations
   
154.411   Sign as obstruction or deception
   
154.412   Nonconforming signs
Parking
   
154.425   Intent
   
154.426   Required off-street parking; residential
   
154.427   Required off-street parking; gathering facility
   
154.428   Required off-street parking; medical facilities
   
154.429   Required off-street parking; manufacturing
   
154.430   Required off-street parking; governmental and public
   
154.431   Required off-street parking; retail sales
   
154.432   Required off-street parking; warehousing
   
154.433   Computation of parking spaces
   
154.434   Location of parking spaces
   
154.435   Shared parking
   
154.436   Joint parking agreement
   
154.437   Surfaces of off-street parking
   
154.438   Lighting of off-street parking
   
154.439   Setback of off-street parking
   
154.440   Off-street loading spaces
Nonconforming Uses
   
154.455   Intent
   
154.456   Nonconforming lots of record, SFD
   
154.457   Nonconforming uses of land (or land with minor structures only)
   
154.458   Nonconforming structures
   
154.459   Nonconforming uses of structures or of structures and premises in
combination
   
154.460   Uses under conditional use provisions are conforming uses
Variances
   
154.475   Variance
   
154.476   Application for variance
   
154.477   Planning Commission variance process
   
154.478   Board of Adjustment variance process
   
154.479   Termination, revocation and reapplication
Conditional Uses
   
154.490   Conditional use
   
154.491   Application for conditional use
   
154.492   Planning Commission conditional use process
   
154.493   Board of Adjustment conditional use process
   
154.494   Termination, revocation and reapplication
Amendments, Rezoning and Annexation
   
154.505   Amendments and rezoning
   
154.506   Annexation and rezoning petitions
   
154.507   Process for amendments and rezoning
Enforcement, Violations and Appeals
   
154.520   Right of entry
   
154.521   Enforcement
   
154.522   Cease and desist order
   
154.523   Appeals to Board of Adjustment; record of appeals, hearing and stays
   
154.524   Stay of proceedings
   
154.525   Board of Adjustment appeals process
   
154.526   Cease and desist order
   
154.527   Bad actor legislation
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Zoning maps
TITLE, PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   These regulations comprise a revision of the city’s zoning ordinance and
shall hereafter be referred to as the “City of Winner Zoning Regulations”.
(Prior Code, § 16.01.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are based upon the comprehensive plan for the city as
adopted by the City Council and legally adopted, in conformance with SDCL
Chapters 11-4 and 11-6. These regulations are designed to carry out the goals
and objectives of the plan, with primary attention to promoting the public
health, safety and general welfare; secure safety from fire, natural disaster
and other dangers; and to encourage a distribution of population and use of
land to promote and protect the economical and adequate provision of
transportation, roads, water supply, drainage, sanitation, education,
recreation or other public requirements.
(Prior Code, § 16.01.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of these regulations shall apply within the incorporated
areas and the one mile jurisdiction, granted by the County Commission, of the
city, as established on the map entitled “The Official Zoning Map of the City
of Winner, Tripp County, South Dakota”.
(Prior Code, § 16.01.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.004 PROVISIONS TO BE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety, morals and general welfare.
   (B)   Whenever these provisions require a greater width or size of yards,
courts or other spaces, or require a lower height of building or less number of
stories, or require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or
impose other higher standards that are required, in the provisions of any other
chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
   (C)   Wherever the provisions of any other chapter require a greater
percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other higher standards than
are required by the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of such chapter
shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 16.01.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
DEFINITIONS
§ 154.015 GENERAL.
   For purposes of this chapter, certain terms are defined as follows.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
singular number include the plural number, and words in the plural number
include the singular number; the word “shall” is mandatory and not directory.
   (B)   “May” is permissive.
   (C)   “Person” includes an individual, all partnerships, associations and
bodies political and corporate.
   (D)   “Lot” includes the word “plot” or “parcel” or “tract”.
   (E)   “Used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building shall be
construed to include the words “intended”, “arranged” or “designed to be used
or occupied”.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16, Art. 2) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUT. Having a common border with, or being separated from such a common
border by a right-of-way, alley or easement.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING.
      (1)   A subordinate building, the use of which is purely incidental to
the main building, is less than 100% of the area of the largest floor of the
principal building, and is unattached from the principal building by at least
six feet.
      (2)   A conditional use permit may be granted for an ACCESSORY BUILDING
to be built on a separate vacant lot if the lot is adjacent to (or across the
street from) a lot with the principal building on it, and both lots are owned
by the same party; or if the ACCESSORY BUILDING is to be built toward the rear
of the otherwise vacant lot leaving sufficient area for a principal structure
of equal or larger size to be placed on the lot in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. The conditional use permit must be applied for
pursuant to §§
154.490 through
154.494. Appropriate requirements, restrictions and/or conditions may be made a
part of any approved conditional use. A building permit shall not be issued and
construction of the ACCESSORY BUILDING may not commence or proceed unless and
until the conditional use has been granted by the Board of Adjustment following
proceedings before the Planning Commission.
      (3)   No bedroom or kitchen facilities are allowed in an ACCESSORY
BUILDING unless it is attached to a dwelling and meets codes and ordinances
pertaining to the same.
      (4)   Water and sewer lines may be connected to an ACCESSORY BUILDING,
but if the ACCESSORY BUILDING is not attached to a principal structure that is
already connected to water and sewer lines, then a separate meter shall be
required for the hookup which shall be subject to all associated fees and
charges according to this code.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily
incidental and subordinate to, the principal uses.
   ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION. The placing of construction materials in permanent
position and fastened in a permanent manner. Where excavation or demolition or
removal of an existing building has been substantially commenced, preparatory
to rebuilding, such excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be
ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION, provided that work shall be carried on diligently.
   ADDITION. Any construction which increases the size of a building such as a
porch, attached garage or carport, or a new room.
   AGRICULTURE.
      (1)   The planting, cultivating, harvesting and storage of grains, hay or
plants, fruits or vineyards along with the raising and feeding of livestock
and/or poultry shall be considered an AGRICULTURAL USE if:
         (1)   The volume of livestock does not constitute an animal feeding
operation as defined in this section; and
         (2)   The proposed operation complies with §§
90.55 through
90.59 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   An animal feeding operation primarily for the growing and/or
finishing of livestock is not considered an AGRICULTURAL USE. Grain elevators
or agricultural product processing facilities shall not be considered an
AGRICULTURAL USE if such use constitutes the main or principal use on a lot or
parcel.
   AGRICULTURE PRODUCT PROCESSING FACILITY. A business activity customarily
designed to process raw agricultural products into value added products.
AGRICULTURAL PROCESSING FACILITIES include, but are not limited to, feed mills,
ethanol plants, soybean processing, packing plants and rendering facilities.
   AIRPORT. The Winner Regional Airport located north of and owned by the City
of Winner.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area, which is established to be 2,032 feet above main sea
level.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree or use of land that obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous, to the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the airport. Any use of land that is hazardous to
persons or property because of its proximity to the airport.
   AIRSPACE ZONE, CONICAL. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
conical surface extending upward and outward from the periphery of the
horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to one (20:1) for a horizontal distance of
4,000 feet.
   AIRSPACE ZONE, HORIZONTAL. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary horizontal surface 150 feet above the established airport elevation,
or a height of 2,188 feet above mean sea level, the perimeter of which is
constructed by swinging arcs of 5,000 feet radii from the center of each end of
the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines
tangent to those arcs.
   AIRSPACE ZONE, NON-INSTRUMENT APPROACH. All that land which lies directly
under an imaginary non-instrument visual approach surface longitudinally
centered on the extended centerline at the end of each landing strip. The inner
edge of the non-instrument approach surface is at the width and elevation as,
and coincides with, the primary surface. The non-instrument approach surface
inclines upward and outward at a slope of 20 to one (20:1), expanding uniformly
to a width of 1,250 feet, and then continuing at the same rate of divergence to
the periphery of the conical surface.
   AIRSPACE ZONE, PRIMARY. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
primary surface longitudinally centered on a runway and extending 200 feet
beyond each end of a runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface
is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline. The
width of the primary surface is 250 feet.
   AIRSPACE ZONE, TRANSITIONAL. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary transitional surface extending upward and outward and right angles to
the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven to
one (7:1) form the sides of the primary surfaces and from the sides of the
approach surfaces until they intersect the horizontal surface or the conical
surface.
   ALLEY. A platted 20-foot right-of-way, accepted by the city, that affords
only a secondary means of access to abutting property and access for utilities.
   ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION. A facility where more than 1,000 animal units are
confined, stabled, fed or maintained in either an open or housed lot for a
total of 45 days or more in any 12-month period. The open lot does not sustain
crops, vegetation, forage growth or post-harvest residues in the normal growing
season. Two or more facilities under common ownership are a single animal
operation if they adjoin each other (within one mile), or if they use a common
area or system for the disposal of manure.
   APARTMENT. A portion of a multi-family dwelling used as a separate housing
unit and having cooking facilities and a private bath.
   APPLICANT. For purposes of this chapter a person shall be deemed to be an
APPLICANT if he or she are the owner of the proposed facility; an officer or
director of the owner thereof; or an owner of any interest, direct or indirect,
in any company, except a publicly traded company, which is the owner of the
proposed development.
   ARCADE. A place of business where an individual, association, partnership or
corporation maintains four or more amusement devices for public use.
   BAR. A building or part thereof where, in consideration of payment therefor,
liquor, beer or wine or any combination thereof are served for consumption on
the premises, with or without food.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building with the floor located below the mean
grade level. For the purpose of this chapter, any such floor with more than
four feet above grade level shall be counted as a story.
   BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATION. Any building or buildings run by an operator
which is used to provide accommodation for a charge to the public, with at most
five rental units for up to an average of ten guests per night and in which
family style meals are provided.
      (1)   FAMILY STYLE MEAL. Any meal ordered by persons staying at a bed and
breakfast establishment that is served from common food service containers, as
long as any food not consumed by those persons is not reused.
      (2)   OPERATOR. The owner or the owner’s agent is required to reside in
the bed and breakfast establishment or on contiguous property while occupied.
   BLOCK. The property abutting on one side of a street and lying within the
two nearest intercepting or intersecting streets or lying within the nearest
intercepting streets and unsubdivided acreage or railroad right-of-way.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The City Council shall serve as the BOARD OF
ADJUSTMENT.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portions of a lot remaining after required yards and
setbacks have been provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind, and when separated by fire walls in
compliance with the Building Code, each portion of such building so separated
shall be deemed a separate building.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average elevation of the
finished grade at the building line to the highest point of a flat roof, or the
deck line of a mansard roof, or the average height of the highest gable or
gambrel, hip or pitch roof.
   BUILDING LINE, FRONT. A line parallel to the street, intersecting the
foremost point of the building, excluding uncovered steps.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main use of the
lot on which said building is located.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINES. A line parallel or approximately parallel to the lot
lines at a specified distance therefrom, marking the minimum distance from the
lot line that the building may be erected.
   BUS DEPOT. A building or premises where commercial motor vehicles pick up
and discharge fare-paying, passengers. Accessory uses may include ticket
offices, luggage checking facilities and similar uses.
   CAMPER. See TRAVEL TRAILER.
   CAMPGROUND. An area of land, managed as a unit, providing short-term
accommodation for tents, tent trailers, travel trailers, recreational vehicles,
campers and cabins.
   CANNABIS (or MARIJUANA). All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis,
whether growing or not, in its natural and unaltered state, except for drying
or curing and crushing or crumbling. The term does not include fiber produced
from the mature stalks of such plant, or oil or cake made from the seeds of
such plant. The term does not include the plant Cannabis sativa L. (hemp) and
any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives,
extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether
growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more
than three-tenths of 1% on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-
20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires,
possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, or sells
cannabis and related supplies to a cannabis establishment.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1, this
term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that acquires, possesses,
stores, delivers, transfers, transports, sells, supplies, or dispenses
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cannabis cultivation facility, a cannabis testing
facility, a cannabis product manufacturing facility, or a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in
SDCL § 34-20G-1, this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity that
acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies,
or sells cannabis products to a cannabis dispensary.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any concentrated cannabis, cannabis extracts, and
products that are infused with cannabis or an extract thereof, and are intended
for use or consumption by humans. The term includes edible cannabis products,
beverages, topical products, ointments, oils, and tinctures.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. In addition to the definition in SDCL § 34-20G-1,
this term is further defined as a legally licensed entity legally authorized to
analyze the safety and potency of cannabis.
   CAR WASH. An establishment having facilities for washing motor vehicles by
production line methods which may include a conveyor system or similar
mechanical devices. This definition may also include a self-service operation.
   CARPORT, DETACHED. A roof with no more than two walls used as a shelter or
storage of vehicles that is not attached to any structure.
   CEMETERY. Land that is set apart or used as a place for the interment of the
dead or in which human bodies have been buried. CEMETERY may include a
structure for the purpose of the cremation of human remains and may include
facilities for storing ashes of human remains that have been cremated or the
interment of the dead in sealed crypts or compartments.
   CHURCH. A building wherein persons regularly assemble for religious worship,
and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
public worship.
   CLINIC. A building or part of a building used solely for the purpose of
consultation, diagnosis and treatment of patients by one or more legally
qualified physicians, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists, chiropractors or
drugless practitioners, together with their qualified assistants, and without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the building may include
administrative offices, waiting rooms, treatment rooms, laboratories,
pharmacies and dispensaries directly associate with the clinic, but shall not
include accommodation for in-patient care or operating rooms for major surgery.
   CLUB. A building owned, leased or hired by a non-profit association of
persons the use of which is generally restricted to dues paying members and
their guests. Such CLUB may periodically be rented, or leased, to non-members
for gathering such as weddings, anniversaries and dances, but no portion of the
building shall continuously be used for business purposes.
   COMPANY. Includes, but is not limited to, any corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, limited liability partnership, limited partnership,
business trust and any other business entity.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Any legally adopted part or element of the city’s
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN or any subsequent amendment.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that would not be appropriate, generally or without
restriction, throughout the zoning district, but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the
public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, convenience, appearance,
prosperity or general welfare. Such uses may be permitted in said zoning
district as CONDITIONAL USES, if specific provision for such conditional use is
made in this chapter. The term conditional use shall be synonymous with special
exception, but shall no include the term variance.
   CONGREGATE HOUSING. A residential facility for elderly persons (age 60 or
older) within which are provided living and sleeping facilities, meal
preparation, laundry services and room cleaning. Such facilities may also
provide other services, such as transportation for routine social, medical and
counseling appointments.
   CONTIGUOUS. Next to, abutting or touching and having a boundary, or portion
thereof, which is adjoining.
   CONTRACTOR. The person who contracts with an individual or developer to
construct a building or structure on a parcel of land prepared by an individual
or developer.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A retail store in which articles for sale are restricted
to a limited range of items such as milk, bread, soft drinks, malt beverages,
include beer and wine coolers (on- and off- sale), ice cream, canned and
bottled goods, snacks and candy, meat, and to complement such items may include
the limited sale of magazines, books and records, housewares, toiletries,
stationary, tobacco products and motor fuel.
   COURT. Any open space, unobstructed from ground to sky, other than a yard,
that is on the same lot with and bounded on three or more sides by the walls of
a building.
   COVENANT. An agreement, convention or promise of two or more parties, by
deed in writing, signed and delivered, by which either of the parties pledges
himself or herself to the other that something is either done, or shall be
done, or shall not be done. The term is currently used primarily with respect
to promises in conveyance or other instruments relating to real estate.
   DAY CARE. The providing of care and supervision of children or adults as a
supplement to regular parental or home care, without transfer of legal custody
or placement for adoption, with or without compensation, on a regular basis for
a part of a day.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A facility for the care and supervision of 21 or more
children on a regular basis for part of a day as a supplement to regular
parental care. Any type of group day care programs including nurseries for
children of working parents, nursery schools for children under minimum age for
education in public schools, parent cooperative nursery schools, playgroups for
pre-school children, programs covering after-school care for school children
provided such establishment is licensed by the state and conducted in
accordance with state requirements.
   DAY CARE, FAMILY. The provision of regular care and supervision of no more
than 12 children including the provider’s own children who are under the age of
six years for part of a 24-hour period as a supplement to regular parental
care.
   DAY CARE, GROUP FAMILY HOME. The provision of regular care and supervision
of 13 to 20 children either in the provider’s home or in a facility outside the
provider’s home for part of a 24-hour period as a supplement to regular
parental care.
   DECK. A structure abutting a dwelling with no roof or walls except for
visual partitions and railings that is constructed on piers or a foundation
above-grade for use as an outdoor living area.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of the property being platted or replatted or the
person designated by the owner as being responsible for the development of the
property. The terms SUBDIVIDER and DEVELOPER are synonymous and used
interchangeably, and shall include any person, partnership, firm, association,
corporation and/or any officer, agent, employee and trustee thereof who does or
participates in the doing of any act toward the subdivision of land within the
intent, scope and purview of this chapter. The DEVELOPER shall also be defined
as the builder or contractor if he or she is responsible for the construction
of buildings and/or structures or permanent improvements.
   DORMITORY. A building or part of a building operated by an institution and
containing a room or rooms forming one or more habitable units which are used
or intended to be used by residents of the institution for living and sleeping,
but not for cooking or eating purposes.
   DUE DILIGENCE. Such a measure of prudence, activity or assiduity, as is
properly to be expected from, and ordinarily exercised by, a reasonable and
prudent man under the particular circumstances; not measured by any absolute
standard, but depending on the relative facts of the special case.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, occupied exclusively as the
residence of one or more persons with each family having individual sleeping,
cooking and toilet facilities.
   DWELLING, EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling unit having only one room exclusive of
bathroom, compartments, kitchen, laundry, pantry, foyer, communicating
corridor, closets or any dining alcove. An EFFICIENCY UNIT shall be permitted
in a multiple-family dwelling.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A residential building designed for, or occupied by,
three or more families living independently of each other with separate
sleeping, cooking and toilet facilities. The number of families in residence
not to exceed the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit other than a
manufactured or modular home, designed for and occupied by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residential building, other than a manufactured or
modular home, designed for and occupied by two families living independently of
each other with separate sleeping, cooking and toilet facilities. The number of
families in residence not to exceed the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit, with facilities, which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of any designated part of their property. For the purposes
of this chapter, the term shall primarily be used to describe utility access.
   EMPLOYEE(S). In regard to off-street parking requirements, all who work in
the enterprise, including owners.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. See UTILITY FACILITY.
   EXHIBITION AREAS. A building, group of buildings or place where art,
objects, articles or livestock or agricultural projects are placed on display
or sold to the public.
   EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which
three or more occupied mobile homes are parked and connected to utilities,
either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any buildings,
structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of such mobile home park.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals living together as a single housekeeping
unit, in which not more than five individuals are unrelated by blood, marriage
or adoption. This definition shall not include foster families as regulated by
the state.
   FARM, HOBBY. An activity carried out in rural residential areas, which
includes the planting, cultivating, harvesting and storage of grains, hay,
plants, fruits or vineyards.
   FARM, RANCH, ORCHARD. 
      (1)   An area of not less than 20 acres of unplatted land, or is a part
of a contiguous ownership of not less than 80 acres of unplatted land, which is
used for growing usual farm products, vegetables, fruits, trees and grain, and
for the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm animals such as
horses, cattle, hogs and sheep, and including the necessary accessory uses for
raising, treating and storing products raised on the premises; but excluding an
animal feeding operation.
      (2)   The processing and storage of raw agricultural products, such as
grain elevators and ethanol plants, shall not be considered a FARM, RANCH or
ORCHARD if such constitutes the main or principal use on the lot or parcel.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of
materials erected to enclose, screen or separate areas.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. The premises of a bank, trust, finance, mortgage or
investment company.
   FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS or HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.
      (1)   FLAMMABLE MATERIAL. Any material that will readily ignite from
common sources of heat, or that will ignite at a temperature of 600°F or less.
FLAMMABLE LIQUID is any liquid having a flash point below 100°F and having
vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds per square inch (absolute) at 100°F.
      (2)   COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID. Any liquid having a flash point at or above
100°F.
      (3)   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Includes any flammable solids, corrosive
liquids, radioactive materials, oxidizing materials, highly toxic materials,
poisonous gases, reactive materials, unstable materials, hyperbolic materials,
pyrophoric materials and any substance or mixture of substances which is an
irritant, a strong sensitizer or which generates pressure through exposure to
heat, decomposition or other means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of wetlands, lakes, streams, tributaries or other
waterbodies; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). The official map issued by the Federal
Insurance Administration where the areas of special flood hazard have been
designated Zone A.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without an
accumulative increase in the water surface.
   FLOOR AREA. The square feet of floor space within the outside line of walls
including the total of all space on all floors of a building. FLOOR AREA shall
not include porches, garages or space in a basement or cellar, which is used
for storage or incidental use.
   FOOD PRODUCT PROCESSING FACILITY. A commercial establishment in which food
or food-related products are processed, packaged or otherwise prepared for
human consumption but not consumed on the premises.
   GARAGE. An accessory building or portion of a building including a carport
which is designed or used for the sheltering of private motor vehicles and the
storage of household equipment incidental to the residential occupancy and in
which there are no facilities for repairing or servicing of such vehicles for
remuneration or commercial use.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof used for the housing or care
of motor vehicles for the general public or where such vehicles are equipped or
repaired for remuneration or kept for hire or sale. This may include premises
commonly known as GASOLINE STATIONS or SERVICE STATIONS.
   GASOLINE STATION. Any area of land, including structures thereon, that is
used for the sale of gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel, and oil or other
lubrication substances; and which may include facilities used or designed to be
used for polishing, greasing, washing, spraying, dry cleaning or otherwise
cleaning such vehicles.
   GOLF COURSE. A public or private area operated for the purpose of playing
golf, and includes a par 3 golf course, clubhouse and recreational facilities,
accessory driving ranges and miniature golf courses, and similar uses.
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building except when any wall approximately parallels
and is not more than five feet from a street line, then the elevation of the
street at the center of the wall adjoining the street shall be GRADE.
   GRAIN ELEVATOR. Grain storage facilities, which are the principal and
primary use of the lot. Said facilities are generally equipped with devices for
housing and discharging significant quantities of grain. This definition does
not include normal farm product storage and warehousing facilities such as
grain bins and where such storage is an accessory use to the parcel.
   GREENHOUSE, COMMERCIAL. A building for the growing of flowers, plants,
shrubs, trees and similar vegetation which are not necessarily transplanted
outdoors on the same lot containing such greenhouse, but are sold directly from
such lot at wholesale or retail.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in airport zones,
the datum shall be mean sea level elevation, unless otherwise specified.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A business activity customarily carried on in the home by a
member of the occupant’s family:
      (1)   That does not occupy more than 25% of the dwelling;
      (2)   Without structural alterations in the building or any of its rooms;
      (3)   Without the installation or outside storage of any machinery,
equipment or material other than that customary to normal household operations;
      (4)   Without the employment of persons not residing in the home; and
      (5)   Which does not cause the generation of traffic in excess of that
experienced on an average street of similar design, noise, electrical
interference, fumes, odors and the like.
   HORTICULTURE. The science or art of cultivating fruits, vegetables, flowers
and plants.
   HOSPITAL. An institution devoted primarily to the operation of facilities of
the diagnosis, treatment and cure of disease, illness, injury or other abnormal
physical conditions with provisions for keeping patients overnight.
   HOTEL. An establishment of transient guests having sleeping rooms for more
than six persons for compensation and may or may not provide meals.
   INSTITUTION. A building or premises occupied by a non-profit corporation or
establishment for public use.
   JUNK YARD. Any area, lot, or location where two or more junked vehicles,
deteriorated, wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled mobile homes,
trailers, boats, machinery, refrigerators, washing machines and other
appliances, furniture, building materials, plumbing fixtures, tires, plastic,
wood, wastepaper, concrete rubble, green hides or other articles are loaded or
stored. See also SALVAGE YARD.
   KENNEL. Any place where two or more dogs, cats or other domesticated animals
of breeding age are housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained, harbored, kept or
sold for commercial purposes.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for landing, taking off or
taxiing of aircraft.
   LANDING STRIP. Any grass or turf covered area of the airport specifically
designated and used for the landing and/or take-off of aircraft. See RUNWAY.
   LOADING AREA. A completely off-street space or berth on the same lot for the
loading or unloading of freight carriers, having adequate ingress and egress to
a public street or alley.
   LOCKER. A meat processing plant and any other facility where meat, poultry
or eggs are cooked, cured, smoked or otherwise processed or packed, provided
that all activities are carried out indoors. This term shall not include a
stockyard, slaughterhouse, tannery, a poultry-killing establishment, an animal
food factory or an animal by-products plant.
   LOT. A tract, plot or portion of subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or for building development.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior
angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percent of the area of a lot occupied by buildings, or
structures, including accessory building or structures.
   LOT, DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the midpoint of the front and
rear lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two non-intersecting streets,
as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street or where addressed. For the purpose of determining yard
requirements on corner lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to
streets shall be considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated
under yards as defined herein.
   LOT FRONTAGE, PIE SHAPED. A lot usually abutting a cul-de-sac. For the
purpose of determining frontage, said distance shall be measured
perpendicularly to the said lot lines at a point 30 feet from the front line.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot, other than a corner lot, with only one frontage on a
street.
   LOT LINE. Any boundary line of a lot.
   LOT LINE, EXTERIOR. The side lot line, which abuts the street on a corner
lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. Customarily defined by the street right-of-way.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line or point of intersection of the side lot lines
farthest from and opposite the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. A lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot that is part of subdivision or otherwise legally
approved and recorded in the office of County Register of Deeds.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot, other than a corner lot, with frontage on more than one
street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE
LOTS.
   LOT WIDTH. The average distance between the lot lines intersecting the
addressed lot frontage.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. The transportation plan in the adopted city’s
comprehensive plan.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Dwellings built according to the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401
et seq., (establishing and amending the Construction and Safety Standards
codified in 24 C.F.R. part 3280). MANUFACTURED HOMES are not mobile homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any premises where two or more manufactured homes
are parked for living or sleeping purposes, or any premises used or set apart
for supplying to the public, parking space for two or more manufactured homes
for living or sleeping purposes, and which include any buildings, structures,
vehicles or enclosures used or intended wholly or in part, for manufactured
homes.
   MANUFACTURING. The use of land, buildings or structures for the purpose of
building, manufacturing, assembly, making, preparing, inspecting, finishing,
treating altering, repairing, warehousing or storing or adapting for sale of
any goods, substance, article, thing or service.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any premises or part thereof where massages are
given, offered or solicited in pursuance of a trade or calling, business or
occupation provided that the service is rendered by a person duly trained,
licensed and registered under the appropriate statute.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, factory-built home, designed as a year-round
residential dwelling and built prior to the enactment of the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, which
became effective June 16, 1976.
   MODULAR HOME. A structure or building module that is manufactured in
accordance with the Building Code at a location other than the site upon which
it is installed and used as a residence; transportable in one or more sections
on a temporary chassis or other conveyance device; and to be used as a
permanent dwelling when installed and placed upon a permanent foundation as
defined in the Building Code.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings containing rooms that are offered
for compensation for the temporary accommodation of transients.
   MUSEUM. A building or buildings used, or to be used, for the preservation of
a collection of paintings and/or other works of art, and/or of objects of
natural history, and/or of mechanical, scientific and/or philosophical
inventions, instruments, models and/or designs and dedicated or to be dedicated
to the recreation of the public, together with any libraries, reading rooms,
laboratories and/or other offices and premises used or to be used in connection
therewith.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot of record existing prior to March 4, 2002, which
does not have the minimum width or contain the minimum area for the zone in
which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A lawful structure which exists prior to March 4,
2002, which could not be built under the terms of this chapter by reason of
restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yard setbacks or other
characteristics of the structure.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A lawful use of land, which exists prior to March 4,
2002, which would not be lawful in the district in which it is situated under
the terms of this chapter.
   NOXIOUS. When used with reference to any use or activity in respect of any
land, building or structure or a use or activity which, from its nature or from
the manner of carrying on same, creates or is liable to create, by reason or
destructive gas or fumes, dust, objectionable odor, noise or vibration or
unsightly storage of goods, wares, merchandise, salvage, machinery parts, junk,
waste or other material, a condition which may become hazardous or injurious as
regards to health or safety or which prejudices the character of the
surrounding are or interferes with or may interfere with the normal enjoyment
of any use of activity in respect of any land, building or structure.
Application of the term NOXIOUS shall be subject to the reasonable person
standard.
   NUISANCE. Consists in unlawfully doing an act, or omitting to perform a
duty, which act or omission either:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety
of others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake or navigable river, bay, stream, canal
or basin, or any public park, square, street or highway; or
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use of
property.
   NURSING HOME, REST HOME, CONVALESCENT HOME. A place which undertakes through
its ownership or management to provide maintenance, personal or nursing care
for three or more persons who by reason of illness, physical deformity or old
age are unable to care for themselves.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure or vegetation that substantially blocks the
vision of people.
   OFFICE. A building or part thereof, designed, intended or used for the
practice of a profession, the carrying on of a business, the conduct of public
administration, or the administration of an industry not conducted on the site
thereof, but shall not include a retail commercial use, any industrial use,
clinic, financial institution or place of amusement or place of assembly.
   OPEN SALES AREA. Any open land or area used or occupied for the purpose of
displaying for sale new or secondhand merchandise, including, but not limited
to, passenger cars or trucks, farm machinery, construction machinery, motor
scooters or motorcycles, boats, trailers, aircraft and monuments. No repair
work is done in such area except for incidental repair of items to be displayed
and sold on the premises.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE AREA. Any open land or area used for the purpose of storage
of any product or part of a product before, during or after manufacture,
servicing or repair and not displayed for retail sale. This does not include
open sales areas.
   OWNER. The record owners of the fee or a vendee in possession, including any
person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations, or any
other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest in
the land sought to be subdivided.
   PARK. An area consisting largely of open space, which may include a
recreational area, playground or similar use but shall not include a mobile
home park, a campground or trailer park.
   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking spaces.
   PARKING, OFF-STREET. Parking on or adjacent to the property on which the
principal use is located and not located in the right-of-way.
   PARKING SPACE. A space available for parking of a motor vehicle with the
dimensions of ten feet by 20 feet or covers 200 square feet, exclusive of
passageways and driveways appurtenant thereto and giving access thereto.
   PAWNSHOP. An establishment where money is loaned on the security of personal
property pledged in the keeping of the pawnbroker.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. Criterion established for the purposes of:
      (1)   Assigning proposed land uses to proper districts; and
      (2)   Controlling noise, odor, glare, smoke, toxic matter, vibration,
fire or explosive hazards generated by, or inherent in, uses of land or
buildings.
   PERMITTED USE. A use by right, which is specifically authorized in a
particular zoning district.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, or any corporation, general
or limited partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, governmental
or quasi-governmental entity.
   PLACES OF ASSEMBLY. Places where people gather or congregate for amusement,
worship, learning and the like. This includes schools, churches, theaters,
playgrounds and the like.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Winner. The term
PLANNING COMMISSION shall be synonymous with Planning and Zoning Commission and
Commission, but shall not include Board of Adjustment or Zoning Board.
   PLAZA. A public square or similar open area.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or structures as distinguished from a
secondary or accessory use.
   PUBLIC. Promotion of a public cause or service, including utilities having a
franchise from the city, but excluding other for-profit organizations.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building which is owned, leased, primarily used and/or
primarily occupied by a school district or municipal, county, state or federal
government, or any subdivision or agency of the school district, municipal,
county, state or federal government.
   PUBLICLY TRADED COMPANY. A company, the shares or other interests in which
are regularly traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock
Exchange, NASDAQ or similar recognized security market.
   QUARRY. A place where consolidated rock has been or is being removed by
means of an open excavation to supply material for construction, industrial or
manufacturing purposes, but does not include a wayside quarry or open pit metal
mine.
   RECREATIONAL BUILDING, COMMUNITY. Publicly owned or operated gymnasium or
similar indoor facility including swimming pools, handball or tennis courts and
related uses.
   RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Includes boats and boat trailers, personal
watercraft, snowmobiles, travel trailers, pick-up campers or coaches, designed
to be mounted on automotive vehicles, motorized dwellings, tent trailers and
the like, and case or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment,
whether occupied by such equipment or not.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A building in which used material is separated and
processed prior to shipment to others who will use those materials to
manufacture new products.
   RENT-ALL SHOP. A building or part of a building where residential and
commercial equipment is kept for rental to the general public and includes such
things as lawn and garden tools, floor cleaning equipment, masonry tools,
painting and decorating equipment, moving tools, plumbing tools and power
tools.
   REPAIR SHOP, AUTO BODY. A general industrial establishment for the repair of
damage to a motor vehicle caused by collision, accident, corrosion or age, and,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, includes the reconstruction
of motor vehicles, the painting or repainting of motor vehicles and the
rebuilding or conversion of automotive engines or engine parts, but does not
include a motor vehicle repair shop, an impounding yard, an automobile service
station or a gas station.
   REPAIR SHOP, MOTOR VEHICLE. A service commercial or general industrial
establishment for the repair or replacement of parts in a motor vehicle and
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shocks, transmissions, gears,
brakes, clutch assemblies, steering assemblies, radiators, heating or cooling
systems, ignition systems, mechanical or electrical parts or systems, the
installation of undercoating, engine tuning, lubrication and engine conversion
or replacement, but does not include an auto body repair shop, an impounding
yard, an automobile service station or a gas station.
   RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY. A family home, group care facility or similar
facility for 24- hour non-medical care of persons in need of personal services,
supervision or assistance for sustaining the activities of daily living or for
the protection of the individual.
   REST HOME. See NURSING HOMES.
   RESTAURANT. A business establishment consisting of a kitchen and dining room
that has a primary purpose to prepare and serve food to be eaten by customers
seated in the dining room.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. A business establishment consisting of a kitchen, with
or without a dining room, where food is prepared and packaged to eat either off
or on the premises or within automobiles parked on the premises.
   RESTAURANT, IN-HOUSE. A private business establishment consisting of a
kitchen, with or without a dining room, whose primary purpose is to prepare and
serve food to be eaten by employees of the principal employer. For the purposes
of this chapter, the term CAFETERIA shall be synonymous with RESTAURANT, IN-
HOUSE.
   RETAIL STORE. A building where goods, wares, merchandise, substances,
articles or items are offered or kept for sale at retail, including storage of
limited quantities of such goods, wares, merchandise, substances, articles or
items sufficient only to service such store.
   RETAINING WALL. A structure constructed to hold back or support an earthen
bank.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area of land that is legally described for the provision of
public access.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land
and the public right-of-way.
   ROAD OR STREET LINE. The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of
land and a contiguous road, street or alley.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A structure having a ground area of not more than 300 square
feet, not permanently fixed to the ground, readily removable in its entirety,
not fully enclosed and to be used solely for the sale of farm products produced
on the premises.
   RODEO GROUNDS. A building or place where rodeo events such as roping and
riding are done for practice or competition.
   RUNWAY. Any paved surface of the airport that is specifically designated and
used for the landing and/or take-off of aircraft.
   SALVAGE YARD. The use of more than 250 square feet of open storage on any
lot, portion of lot or tract of land for the sale, storage, keeping or for the
abandonment, dismantling or wrecking of automobiles or other vehicles, machines
or parts thereof.
   SATELLITE DISH/RECEIVER. A device incorporating a reflective surface that is
solid, open mesh or bar configured and is the shape of a shallow dish or cone
designed and used for the reception of television signals related back to earth
from a terrestrially and/or orbital based communications satellite.
   SCHOOL, BOARDING. A school under the sponsorship of a private agency,
corporation or religious entity, having a curriculum generally equivalent to
public elementary or secondary schools, accredited by the state and provides
room and board for its students; but excluding private trade or commercial
schools. Day care centers, as herein defined, shall not be considered schools
as applicable to this definition.
   SCHOOL, DENOMINATIONAL OR PRIVATE. A school under the sponsorship of a
private agency, corporation or religious entity, having a curriculum generally
equivalent to public elementary or secondary schools and accredited by the
state; but excluding private trade or commercial schools. Day care centers, as
herein defined, shall not be considered schools as applicable to this
definition.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC. A school under the sponsorship of a public agency providing
elementary or secondary curriculum, and accredited by the state; but excluding
private trade or commercial schools.
   SCHOOL, TRADE OR COMMERCIAL. An establishment other than an accredited or
licensed public, private or denominational school, offering training or
instruction in art, occupation or trade.
   SCREENING. A continuous fence, wall, compact evergreen hedge or combination
thereof, supplemented with landscape planting that would effectively screen the
property, which it encloses and is broken only by access drives and walks.
   SECONDHAND SHOP. The use of land, or building or structure or part thereof
where used goods, wares, merchandise, substances or articles are offered or
kept for sale but shall not include a pawnshop.
   SECURITY DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy
by a security employee.
   SELF-STORAGE WAREHOUSE. A building containing separate, individual self-
storage units divided from the floor to the ceiling by a wall with an
independent entrance from the exterior of the building, designed to be rented
or leased on a short-term basis to the general public for private storage of
personal goods, materials and equipment.
   SERVICES. Establishments, primarily engaged in providing services for
individuals, business and government establishments and other organizations,
including hotels and other lodging places, establishments providing personal
business, repair and amusement services, health, legal, engineering and other
professional services, educational institutions, membership organizations and
other miscellaneous services.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance from a lot line, to a wall of the
building, exclusive of permitted projections. The SETBACK shall be measured at
right angles to such lot lines.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The triangular space formed by the street lines of a corner
lot and a line drawn from a point in one street line to a point in the other
street line, each such point being 30 feet from the point of intersection of
the street lines (measured along the street lines). Where the two street lines
do not intersect at a point, the point of intersection of the street lines
shall be deemed to be the intersection of the projection of the street lines or
the intersection of the tangents to the street lines. In the case of arterial
highways intersecting with other arterial highways or railways, the distances
establishing the SIGHT TRIANGLE shall be increased to 50 feet.
   SIGN. Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons not
on the premises on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, BANNER. A temporary sign, which has a maximum area of 12 square feet,
composed of lightweight material either enclosed or not in a rigid frame,
secured or mounted so as to allow movement of the sign caused by movement of
the atmosphere (i.e., pennants, twirling signs, balloon or other gas-filled
figures, ribbons or other similar moving devices) and intended to be displayed
for a limited period of time.
   SIGN, BULLETIN BOARD. An exterior sign, which has a maximum area of 35
square feet, used by public, charitable and religious institutions for the
purpose of informing the public about activities of their organization.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL OFF-SITE. An exterior sign that is generally
informational, that has a purpose secondary to the use of the primary use on a
property that is not adjacent to the property on which the directional off-site
sign exists. Said sign shall include only those signs placed by a political
subdivision and shall include those signs standardized by the State Department
of Transportation.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL ON-SITE. An exterior sign that is generally informational,
that has a purpose secondary to the use of the property on which it is located,
such as “no parking”, “entrance” and “loading only”. Said sign shall conform to
standards adopted or approved by the regulating public agency.
   SIGN, EASEMENT AND UTILITY. An exterior sign, which has a maximum area of
five square feet, used to identify the location of easements, property lines,
utilities, hazards or otherwise providing notice of restrictions on public
access.
   SIGN, EXTERIOR ON-SITE. An exterior sign, which has a maximum area of 200
square feet, relating in subject to the premises upon which it is located, or
to products, accommodations, services or activities on the premises. EXTERIOR
ON-SITE SIGNS do not include signs erected by outdoor advertising industry in
the conduct of the outdoor advertising business, such as billboards, which are
off-site signs.
   SIGN, FLAG. Any fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns or
symbols, which has a maximum area of 20 square feet and is used as a symbol of
government, political subdivision or other entity.
   SIGN, GROUND AND MONUMENT.
      (1)   An exterior sign permanently attached to the ground to identify
churches, schools, institutional and public uses. Said sign may also identify a
specific neighborhood by displaying the name of the tract.
      (2)   GROUND AND MONUMENT SIGNS:
         (1)   Are generally constructed of concrete or other masonry material;
         (2)   Shall not exceed 20 feet in height above the mean centerline
street or grade;
         (3)   Shall meet a minimum of one-half of the yard requirements for
the district in which it is located; and
         (4)   Shall not exceed 100 square feet on one side or 200 square feet
on all sides of any one premises.
   SIGN, MOUNTED WALL. A sign, which has a maximum area of 100 square feet,
that is attached to or erected against a wall of a building and shall project
no more than 12 inches from the wall of the building. Said sign is intended to
be read from directly in front of the face of the building.
   SIGN, NAME AND ADDRESS PLATE. A sign, which has a maximum area of two square
feet, that is affixed to the side of a building informing the public as to the
residents, occupation and/or street address of the building.
   SIGN, OFF-SITE. A sign, which has a maximum area of 200 square feet, other
than an exterior or interior on-site sign. OFF-SITE SIGNS are more
conventionally known as BILLBOARDS regardless of size.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign, which has a maximum area of 20 square feet, not
permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure, or a sign
designed to be transported, including, but not limited to, signs designed to be
transported by means of wheels; signs converted to A or T-frames; menu and
sandwich board signs. Signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and
visible from the public right-of-way shall not be included in this definition
and shall be prohibited unless said vehicle is used in normal day-to-day
operations of the business. Said sign is intended to be displayed for a limited
period of time.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign, which has a maximum area of 100 square feet and
is a minimum of eight feet above the prevailing grade, that is affixed to a
building or wall in such a manner that its face is perpendicular to the face of
the building and the sign extends more than 12 inches beyond the surface of
such building or wall.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. An exterior sign for the purpose of advertising the sale,
rental, lease of real property. Said sign is located on the premises for sale,
rental or lease and shall be of a temporary nature and shall have a maximum
area of four square feet except in the commercial, highway commercial or
industrial districts where the maximum area shall be 32 square feet.
   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign, which has maximum area of 300 square feet, that is
erected upon, against or directly above a roof or on top of the parapet of a
building.
   SLOPE. An incline from the horizontal expressed in an arithmetic ratio of
horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor above it, or if there is no
floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof that has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than four feet above the top floor
level.
   STREET. A right-of-way greater than 20 feet in width established by a
recorded plat to provide the primary means of access to abutting property.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street to allow for traffic movement through the city.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street gathering traffic from local streets and
providing access to arterial streets.
   STREET LINE. See ROAD OR STREET LINE.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street providing access to nearby areas within the city.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A platted right-of-way accepted by the city that is greater
than 20 feet in width.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change or rearrangement of the supporting members
(such as bearing walls, beams, columns, foundations, poles or girders) of a
building, or addition to a building, or movement of a building, from one
location to another.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of, which requires
location on the ground or that it be attached to something having a location on
the ground but not including utility lines and their normal accessory equipment
excluding sidewalks and driveways that conform to zoning regulations.
   SWIMMING POOL. A water-filled enclosure, permanently constructed or
portable, having a depth of more than 24 inches below the level of the
surrounding land, or an above ground pool, having a depth of more than 30
inches, designed used and maintained for swimming and bathing.
   TANK FARM. A facility having two or more storage containers for the transfer
of inorganic liquids or gases and from which no retail sale of fuel to the
public is or may be conducted.
   THRIFT SHOP. A shop operated by a charitable organization, which sells,
donated and used merchandise only. All such merchandise shall be displayed and/
or stored in an enclosed building.
   TOWER. A structure situated on a nonresidential site that is intended for
transmitting or receiving television, radio or telephone communications,
including those used exclusively for governmental dispatch communications.
   TRAILER CAMP OR TOURIST GROUND. See CAMPGROUND.
   TRAILER COURT OR PARK. The five trailer courts or parks that existed prior
to March 4, 2002 legally described as:
      (1)   Lots 5, 6, 7, 8, Block 4, Original Town Addition;
      (2)   Lots 4, 5, Block 1, Cooper’s Addition;
      (3)   Lots A, B, C, E, F, less Lot 1 of Block E, Flynn’s Addition;
      (4)   Lots A and B, less the west 20 feet of Lot A and less the north
112.2 feet of the east 253.5 feet of Lot B, Dreyer’s Subdivision; and
      (5)   S. 100p of Lots 1-2, Eagleton’s Outlot B; E. 100 feet Lot A,
Boreson’s Addition; Lots 7 and 8, Block 1, Eagleton’s 2nd Addition.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. An object designed for accommodation intended and used
exclusively for travel, recreation and a vacation and which is capable of being
drawn or propelled by a motor vehicle or is self-propelled and includes tent
trailers or similar transportable accommodation, but does not include a mobile
home.
   TRUCK OR EQUIPMENT TERMINAL. A building, structure or place where five or
more commercially licensed trucks or trailers are rented, leased, kept for hire
or stored or parked for compensation, or from which trucks or transports,
stored or parked on the property, are dispatched for hire as common carriers,
and which may include warehouse space.
   USE. The purpose for which a lot or a building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained, and “used”
shall have a corresponding meaning.
   UTILITY FACILITY. Any above-ground structures or facilities, other than
buildings, unless such buildings are used as storage incidental to the
operation of such structures or facilities, owned by a governmental entity, a
non-profit organization, a corporation, or any entity defined as a public
utility for any purpose and used in connection with the production, generation,
transmission, delivery, collection, or storage of water, sewage, electricity,
gas, oil or electronic signals.
   UTILITY SHED. A small moveable structure without a foundation separate from,
but associated with, a main building used for storage of yard and garden
equipment.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of this chapter by the Board of Appeals
where the literal enforcement of this chapter would deny to the property
enjoyed as a right by other property owners within the same zoning district.
VARIANCES shall be limited to height, bulk and yard requirements.
   VETERINARY CLINIC. A building or part of a building used for the care,
diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm or injured animals, and those
who are in need of medical or surgical attention. Such clinics may or may not
provide long-term lodging for ill or unwanted animals, or lodging for healthy
animals on a fee basis. No outside runs, pens or facilities shall be permitted.
   VETERINARY SERVICES. A building or part of a building used for the care,
diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm or injured animals, and those
who are in need of medical or surgical attention. Such clinics may or may not
provide long-term lodging for ill or unwanted animals, or lodging for healthy
animals on a fee basis.
   VIDEO RENTAL SHOP. The use of land, building or structure for the purpose of
renting video cassette recorders and/or video disc players and/or the rental of
video tapes and/or discs.
   VISION CLEARANCE. An unoccupied triangular space at the intersection of
highways or streets with other highways or streets or at the intersection of
highways or streets with railroads. See SIGHT TRIANGLE.
   WAREHOUSE. A building or part of a building used for the storage and
distribution of goods, wares, merchandise, substances or articles and may
include facilities for a wholesale or retail commercial outlet, but shall not
include facilities for a truck or transport terminal or yard.
   WHOLESALE. The sale of commodities to retailers or jobbers and shall include
the sale of commodities for the purpose of carrying on any trade or business
even if the said trade of business is the consumer or end user of the
commodity.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except for vegetation as permitted, and
except for permitted accessory buildings in rear yards.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of a lot between the
front lot line and the nearest portion of any structure serving or attached to
any building or structure on the lot.
   YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space extending across the rear of a lot
from one side lot line to the other side lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard or open space on each side of the main building extending
from the side lot line to the side wall of the building, exclusive of permitted
projections and from the front yard to the rear yard, when an accessory
building is constructed as part of the main building, the SIDE YARD
requirements shall be the same for the accessory building as required for the
main building.
   ZONE. An area within which, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, certain uses of lands, buildings and structures are permitted and
certain others are prohibited, where yards and other open spaces are required,
where lot areas, building height limits and other requirements are established,
all of the foregoing being identical for the zone and district in which they
apply.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. An official of the city hired by the city to
administer and enforce the zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. 16, Art. 2) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 783, passed - -; Ord.
800, passed - -; Ord. 824, passed - -; Ord. 858, passed - -; Ord. 1014, passed
11-1-2021)
OFFICIAL BOUNDARY MAP AND BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION
§ 154.030 GENERAL.
   The city and all property within its corporate limits is hereby divided into
zones, or districts, as shown on the official zoning map which, together with
all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of this chapter. The official zoning map shall be identified by the
signature of the Mayor, attested by the Finance Officer, and bearing the seal
of the city under the following words:
“This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in §
154.030 of the Winner Municipal Code enacted by the City of Winner, Tripp
County, South Dakota.
Adopted this ______________ day of  (month) ,  (year) .”
(Prior Code, § 16.03.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.031 ZONING MAP CHANGES.
   (A)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are
made in the district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official
zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning map promptly
after the amendment has been approved by the City Council, with an entry on the
official zoning map as follows:
On this ______________ day of ______________ 20_______, by official action of
the City Council, the following change(s) were made to the Official Zoning Map:
(brief description of nature of change).
   (B)   Such entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the Finance
Officer. No amendment to this chapter that involves matter portrayed on the
official zoning map shall become effective until after such change and entry
has been made on said map.
   (C)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning
map that may, from time to time, be made or published, the official zoning map
shall be located in the office of the Finance Officer and shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings
and other structures in the jurisdictional area.
(Prior Code, § 16.03.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.032 ZONING MAP REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   If the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or
difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the City Council may, by resolution, adopt a new official zoning
map. The new official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or
omissions in the prior official zoning map, but no such correction shall have
the affect of amending the original official zoning map or any subsequent
amendment thereof.
   (B)   The new official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of
the Mayor attested by the Finance Officer and bearing the seal of the city
under the following words:
“This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map as adopted this
______________ day of ______________ 20_______ supercedes and replaces the
Official Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of zoning map being replaced as
part of Ordinance number) of the City of Winner, Tripp County, South Dakota.”
   (C)   Unless the prior official zoning map has been lost, or has been
totally destroyed, the prior map, or any significant parts thereof remaining,
shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its
adoption or amendment.
(Prior Code, § 16.03.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.033 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such lot lines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following such city limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to
follow such shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line shall be
construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerlines of creeks, streams, rivers, canals,
lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   (F)   (1)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be so construed.
      (2)   The scale of the map shall determine distances not specifically
indicated on the official zoning map.
   (G)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (D) above, the Planning Commission shall
interpret the district boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 16.03.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.045 GENERAL.
   The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.046 ZONING AFFECTS EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity with all of
the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.047 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   No building or other structure shall, without approval and adherence to §
154.046 and applicable district requirements, hereafter be erected or altered:
   (A)   To exceed the height or bulk;
   (B)   Except in conformity with area and parking restrictions of the
appropriate district;
   (C)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
   (D)   So that there is more than one principal building on one buildable
lot;
   (E)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; and
   (F)   To have narrower or smaller yards or other open spaces, than herein
required, or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.048 OPEN SPACE, OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACE RESTRICTIONS.
   No part of a yard, or other open space, off-street parking or loading space
required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying
with this chapter, shall be included as part of a yard, open space, off-street
parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.049 YARD AND LOT REDUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be
reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein.
Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall meet at
least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.050 ROAD OR PUBLIC WAY VACATION.
   Whenever any road, street or other public way is vacated by the official
action of the City Council, the zoning district(s) adjoining each side of such
road or public way shall automatically extend to the center of such vacation
and all area included in such vacation shall be subject to all appropriate
regulations of the extended district.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.051 ANNEXATION.
   Land newly annexed to the city shall include a designated zoning. This
section shall not apply when the annexation is only a platted right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.052 UNCLASSIFIED OR UNSPECIFIED USES.
   In order to ensure that the zoning regulations will permit all similar uses
in each district, the Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon
written application and after review and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, shall determine whether a use not specifically listed as a
permitted, accessory or conditional use in a district shall be deemed a
permitted, accessory or conditional use in one or more districts on the basis
of similarity to uses specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.04.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.053 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses and structures not specifically listed as a permitted use,
accessory use, or as a conditional use in a particular zoning district shall be
prohibited in the district.
(Ord. 1014, passed 1-11-2021)
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 154.065 DISTRICTS CREATED.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following zoning districts and zoning map
designations are established:
AG    Agricultural
R-1   Single-Family Residential
R-2   Two-Family Residential
R-2MH Two-Family Residential - Manufactured Home Allowed
R-3   Multi-Family Residential
R-3MH Multi-Family Residential - Manufactured Home Allowed
MHP   Manufactured Home Park
REC   Recreation, Education and Conservation
C-1   Highway Commercial
C-2   General Commercial
C-2DT General Commercial Downtown
H     Healthcare
I     Industrial
 
(Prior Code, § 16.05.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.066 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   District regulations shall be as set forth in sections of this chapter and
in §§
154.375 through
154.395.
(Prior Code, § 16.05.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (AG)
§ 154.080 INTENT.
   The intent of the Agricultural District (AG) is to protect agricultural
lands and the natural character of the rural area from incompatible land uses;
preserve land best suited to agricultural uses and land in which the natural
environment should be continued; and to limit, or minimize the impact of
residential, commercial and industrial development to those areas where they
are best suited for reasons of practicality and service delivery.
(Prior Code, § 16.06.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.081 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in an
Agricultural District (AG):
   (A)   Agriculture;
   (B)   Horticulture;
   (C)   Greenhouses, commercial;
   (D)   Parks;
   (E)   Riding stables;
   (F)   Public rodeo grounds;
   (G)   Exhibition areas;
   (H)   Farms, hobby;
   (I)    Dwellings, single-family; and
   (J)   Utility facilities.
(Prior Code, § 16.06.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord.
1058, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 154.082 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in an
Agricultural District (AG):
   (A)   Temporary roadside stands for retail sale of produce;
   (B)   Home and farmstead occupations;
   (C)   Parking spaces, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (D)   Day cares, family;
   (E)   Swimming pools, pursuant to §
154.389;
   (F)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (G)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (H)   Signs, mounted wall;
   (I)   Signs, real estate;
   (J)   Signs, banner;
   (K)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (L)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (M)   Signs, flag;
   (N)   Garages; and
   (O)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental to the Agricultural
District (AG).
(Prior Code, § 16.06.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.083 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in an Agricultural District
(AG):
   (A)   Towers, pursuant to §
154.388;
   (B)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (C)   Signs, exterior on-site;
   (D)   Signs, off-site;
   (E)   Signs, projecting;
   (F)    Signs, portable;
   (G)   Signs, ground and monument; and
   (H)   Modular homes.
(Prior Code, § 16.06.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord.
1058, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 154.084 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that the zoning chapter will permit all similar uses in
each district, the Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written
application and after review and recommendation of the Planning Commission,
shall determine whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory
or conditional use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or
conditional use in one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses
specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.06.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.085 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures not specifically permitted as principal, accessory
or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.084 are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.06.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.086 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   None required.
(Prior Code, § 16.06.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.087 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   None required.
(Prior Code, § 16.06.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.088 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The height of any dwelling unit shall not exceed 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.06.09) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1)
§ 154.100 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for a low density of single-family
residential dwellings within the existing ranges of municipal services, or
where municipal services can be obtained or developed economically.
(Prior Code, § 16.07.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.101 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in a Single-
Family Residential District (R-1):
   (A)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (B)    Schools, public;
   (C)   Schools, private or denominational;
   (D)   Churches;
   (E)   Parks; and
   (F)   Utility facilities.
(Prior Code, § 16.07.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord.
1058, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 154.102 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in a Single-
Family Residential District (R-1):
   (A)   Garages;
   (B)   Parking spaces, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (C)   Home occupations;
   (D)   Day cares, family;
   (E)   Swimming pools, pursuant to §
154.389;
   (F)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (G)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (H)   Signs, real estate;
   (I)   Signs, banner;
   (J)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (K)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (L)   Signs, flag; and
   (M)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.07.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.103 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in a Single-Family
Residential District (R-1):
   (A)    Modular homes;
   (B)   Golf courses;
   (C)   Day cares, group family home;
   (D)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (E)   Signs, portable;
   (F)   Signs, ground and monument; and
   (G)   Bed and breakfast operations, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440.
(Prior Code, § 16.07.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 783, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -; Ord. 1058, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 154.104 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that the zoning chapter will permit all similar uses in
each, the Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written
application and after review recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall
determine whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory or
conditional use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or
conditional use in one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses
specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.07.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.105 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures that are not specifically permitted as principal,
accessory or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.104 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.07.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.106 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area per single-family units shall be 10,000 square
feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be 75 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.07.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.107 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All yards must meet the following criteria as measured from the lot
lines.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all buildings and structures, including,
but not limited to, decks, patios and garages:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard: five feet;
      (3)   In areas where no alley exists, or is planned, rear yards shall
have a minimum of 15 feet dedicated for utility access and shall maintain the
area free of obstructions, including, but not limited to, trees, fences and
other obstructions;
      (4)   Decks and patios may extend ten feet into a front yard;
      (5)   Side yard: six feet; and
      (6)   Side yards may be up to 25 feet on corner lots at the Commission’s
discretion.
(Prior Code, § 16.07.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 879,
passed - -)
§ 154.108 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The height of all buildings and structures shall not exceed 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.07.09) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-2)
§ 154.120 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for a moderate density of a combination
of residential dwelling options within the existing ranges of municipal
services, or where municipal services can be obtained or developed
economically.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.121 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in a Two-
Family Residential District (R-2):
   (A)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (B)   Dwellings, two-family;
   (C)    Schools, public;
   (D)   Schools, private or denominational;
   (E)   Churches;
   (F)   Parks; and
   (G)   Utility facilities.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord.
1058, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 154.122 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in a Two-
Family Residential District (R-2):
   (A)   Garages;
   (B)   Parking spaces, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (C)   Home occupations;
   (D)   Day cares, family;
   (E)   Swimming pools, pursuant to §
154.389;
   (F)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (G)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (H)   Signs, real estate;
   (I)   Signs, banner;
   (J)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (K)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (L)   Signs, flag; and
   (M)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.123 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in a Two-Family Residential
District (R-2):
   (A)   Multi-family dwellings, pursuant to R-3 lot square footage, yard and
parking requirements;
   (B)    Modular homes;
   (C)   Day care centers;
   (D)   Day cares, group family home;
   (E)   Bed and breakfast operations, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (F)   Hospitals, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (G)   Clinics, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (H)   Nursing, rest and convalescent homes, pursuant to §§
1
154.425 through
154.440;
   (I)   Golf courses;
   (J)   Existing mobile home parks, pursuant to §
154.384;
   (K)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (L)   Signs, portable; and
   (M)   Signs, ground, and monument.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 783, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -; Ord. 1058, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 154.124 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that the zoning chapter will permit all similar uses in
each district, the Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written
application and after review and recommendation of the Planning Commission,
shall determine whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory
or conditional use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or
conditional use in one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses
specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.125 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures that are not specifically permitted as principal,
accessory or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.124 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.126 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area per single-family shall be 7,000 square feet and
two-family dwelling units or other uses shall be 8,400 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot area shall not be less than 2,000 square feet for each
dwelling unit thereafter.
   (C)   The minimum lot width shall be 50 feet for a single-family dwelling
and 70 feet for a two-family dwelling or other uses.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.127 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All yards must meet the following criteria as measured from the lot
lines.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all buildings and structures, including,
but not limited to, decks, patios and garages:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard: five feet;
      (3)   In areas where no alley exists, or is planned, rear yards shall
have a minimum of 15 feet dedicated for utility and fire access and shall
maintain the area free of obstructions, including, but not limited to, trees,
fences and other obstructions;
      (4)   Decks and patios may extend ten feet into a front yard;
      (5)   Side yard: six feet; and
      (6)   Side yards may be up to 25 feet on corner lots at the Planning
Commission’s discretion.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 879,
passed - -)
§ 154.128 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The height of all buildings and structures shall not exceed 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.08.09) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT MANUFACTURED HOMES ALLOWED (R-2MH)
§ 154.140 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for a moderate density of a combination
of residential dwelling including manufactured homes options within the
existing ranges of municipal services, or where municipal services can be
obtained or developed economically.
(Prior Code, § 16.09.01) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.141 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in a Two-
Family Residential Manufactured Home District (R-2MH):
   (A)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (B)   Dwellings, two-family;
   (C)   Modular homes;
   (D)   Manufactured homes, pursuant to §
154.383;
   (E)   Schools, public;
   (F)   Schools, private or denominational;
   (G)   Churches;
   (H)   Parks; and
   (I)   Utility facilities.
(Prior Code, § 16.09.02) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.142 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in a Two-
Family Residential District (R-2):
   (A)   Garages;
   (B)   Parking spaces, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (C)   Home occupations;
   (D)   Swimming pools, pursuant to §
154.389;
   (E)   Day cares, family;
   (F)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (G)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (H)   Signs, real estate;
   (I)   Signs, banner;
   (J)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (K)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (L)   Signs, flag; and
   (M)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.09.03) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.143 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in a Two-Family Residential
District (R-2):
   (A)   Multi-family dwellings, pursuant to R-3 lot square footage, yard and
parking requirements;
   (B)   Day care centers;
   (C)   Day cares, group family home;
   (D)   Hospitals, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (E)   Clinics, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (F)   Nursing, rest and convalescent homes, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (G)   Golf courses;
   (H)   Towers, pursuant to §
154.388;
   (I)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (J)   Signs, portable; and
   (K)   Signs, ground and monument.
(Prior Code, § 16.09.04) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.144 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that all similar uses in each district are permitted, the
Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written application and
after review and recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall determine
whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory or conditional
use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or conditional use in
one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.09.05) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.145 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures not specifically permitted as principal, accessory
or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.144 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.09.06) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.146 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area per single-family shall be 7,000 square feet and
two-family dwelling units or other uses shall be 8,400 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot area shall not be less than 2,000 square feet for each
dwelling unit thereafter.
   (C)   The minimum lot width shall be 50 feet for a single-family dwelling
and 70 feet for a two-family dwelling or other uses.
(Prior Code, § 16.09.07) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.147 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All yards must meet the following criteria as measured from the lot
lines.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all buildings and structures, including,
but not limited to, decks, patios and garages:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard: five feet;
      (3)   In areas where no alley exists, or is planned, rear yards shall
have a minimum of 15 feet dedicated for utility and fire access and shall
maintain the area free of obstructions, including, but not limited to, trees,
fences and other obstructions;
      (4)   Decks and patios may extend ten feet into a front yard;
      (5)   Side yard: six feet; and
      (6)   Side yards may be up to 25 feet on corner lots at the Commission’s
discretion.
(Prior Code, § 16.09.08) (Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 879, passed - -)
§ 154.148 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The height of all buildings and structures shall not exceed 35 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.09.09) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-3)
§ 154.160 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for a high density of residential
dwellings, including multiple family units, within the existing ranges of
municipal services.
(Prior Code, § 16.10.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.161 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in a Multi-
Family Residential District (R-3):
   (A)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (B)   Dwellings, two-family;
   (C)   Dwellings, multi-family;
   (D)    Public buildings;
   (E)   Schools, public;
   (F)   Schools, private or denominational;
   (G)   Churches;
   (H)   Parks; and
   (I)   Utility facilities.
(Prior Code, § 16.10.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord.
1058, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 154.162 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in a Multi-
Family Residential District (R-3):
   (A)   Garages;
   (B)   Parking spaces, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (C)   Home occupations;
   (D)   Day care centers;
   (E)   Day cares, family;
   (F)   Day cares, group family home;
   (G)   Swimming pools, pursuant to §
154.389;
   (H)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (I)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (J)   Signs, real estate;
   (K)   Signs, banner;
   (L)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (M)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (N)   Signs, flag; and
   (O)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.10.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.163 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in a Multi-Family
Residential District (R-3):
   (A)    Modular homes;
   (B)   Existing mobile home parks, pursuant to §
154.384;
   (C)   Residential care facilities;
   (D)   Nursing, rest and convalescent homes;
   (E)   Congregate housing;
   (F)   Clubs;
   (G)   Clinics, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (H)   Hospitals, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (I)   Funeral homes, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (J)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (K)   Signs, portable;
   (L)   Signs, ground and monument;
   (M)   Towers, pursuant to §
154.388; and
   (N)   Bed and breakfast operations, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440.
(Prior Code, § 16.10.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 783, passed - -; Ord. 800,
passed - -; Ord. 1058, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 154.164 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that the zoning chapter will permit all similar uses in
each district, the Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written
application and after review and recommendation of the Planning Commission,
shall determine whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory
or conditional use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or
conditional use in one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses
specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.10.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.165 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures not specifically permitted as principal, accessory
or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.164 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.10.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.166 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall not be less than:
      (1)   Seven thousand square feet for a single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Eight thousand four hundred square feet for a two-family dwelling;
      (3)   Six thousand square feet for the first unit of a multi-family
dwelling, plus 1,200 square feet for each additional unit up to 12 units and
750 square feet for each addition unit over 12;
      (4)   One acre for institutional uses;
      (5)   Fifteen thousand square feet for fraternities, sororities, clubs
and lodges; and
      (6)   Nine thousand six hundred square feet for other uses.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be:
      (1)   Sixty feet for a single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Seventy feet for a two-family dwelling;
      (3)   Eighty feet for a multi-family dwelling and fraternities or
sororities;
      (4)   One hundred feet for institutional uses; and
      (5)   Eighty feet for other uses.
(Prior Code, § 16.10.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.167 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All yards must meet the following criteria as measured from the lot
lines.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all buildings and structures, including,
but not limited to, decks, patios and garages:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard: five feet;
      (3)   In areas where no alley exists, or is planned, rear yards shall
have a minimum of 15 feet dedicated for utility and fire access and shall
maintain the area free of obstructions, including but not limited to, trees,
fences and other obstructions;
      (4)   Decks and patios may expand ten feet into a front yard;
      (5)   Side yard, one to two-family dwellings: six feet;
      (6)   Side yard, multi-family dwelling, school, church or other similar
buildings: ten feet; and
      (7)   Side yards may be up to 25 feet on corner lots at the Board’s
discretion.
(Prior Code, § 16.10.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 879,
passed - -)
§ 154.168 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The maximum height for all buildings and structures shall be 45 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.10.09) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT MANUFACTURED HOMES ALLOWED (R-3MH)
§ 154.180 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide for a high density of residential
dwellings, including multiple family units, within the existing ranges of
municipal services.
(Prior Code, § 16.11.01) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.181 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in a Multi-
Family Residential District Manufactured Homes Allowed (R-3MH):
   (A)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (B)   Dwellings, two-family;
   (C)   Dwellings, multi-family;
   (D)   Modular homes;
   (E)   Manufactured homes, pursuant to §
154.383;
   (F)   Schools, public;
   (G)   Schools, private or denominational;
   (H)   Churches;
   (I)   Parks; and
   (J) Utility facilities.
(Prior Code, § 16.11.02) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.182 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in a Multi-
Family Residential District Manufactured Homes Allowed (R-3MH):
   (A)   Garages;
   (B)   Parking spaces, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (C)   Home occupations;
   (D)   Day care centers;
   (E)   Day cares, family;
   (F)   Day cares, group family home;
   (G)   Swimming pools, pursuant to §
154.389;
   (H)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (I)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (J)   Signs, real estate;
   (K)   Signs, banner;
   (L)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (M)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (N)   Signs, flag; and
   (O)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.11.03) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.183 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in a Multi-Family
Residential District Manufactured Homes Allowed (R-3MH):
   (A)   Residential care facilities;
   (B)   Existing mobile home parks, pursuant to §
154.384;
   (C)   Nursing, rest, and convalescent homes;
   (D)   Congregate housing;
   (E)   Clubs;
   (F)   Clinics, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (G)   Hospitals, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (H)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (I)   Signs, portable;
   (J)   Signs, ground and monument; and
   (K)   Towers, pursuant to §
154.388.
(Prior Code, § 16.11.04) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.184 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that all similar uses in each district are permitted, the
Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written application and
after review and recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall determine
whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory or conditional
use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or conditional use in
one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.11.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.185 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures not specifically permitted as principal, accessory
or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.184 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.11.06) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.186 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall not be less than:
      (1)   Seven thousand square feet for a single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Eight thousand four hundred square feet for a two-family dwelling;
      (3)   Six thousand square feet for the first unit of a multi-family
dwelling, plus 1,200 square feet for each additional unit up to 12 units and
750 square feet for each addition unit over 12;
      (4)   One acre for institutional uses;
      (5)   Fifteen thousand square feet for fraternities, sororities, clubs
and lodges; and
      (6)   Nine thousand six hundred square feet for other uses.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be:
      (1)   Sixty feet for a single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Seventy feet for a two-family dwelling;
      (3)   Eighty feet for a multi-family dwelling and fraternities or
sororities;
      (4)   One hundred feet for institutional uses; and
      (5)   Eighty feet for other uses.
(Prior Code, § 16.11.07) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.187 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All yards must meet the following criteria as measured from the lot
lines.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all buildings and structures, including,
but not limited to, decks, patios and garages:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard: five feet;
      (3)   In areas where no alley exists, or is planned, rear yards shall
have a minimum of 15 feet dedicated for utility and fire access and shall
maintain the area free of obstructions, including, but not limited to, trees,
fences and other obstructions;
      (4)   Side yard, one to two-family dwellings: six feet;
      (5)   Side yard, multi-family dwelling, school, church or other similar
buildings: ten feet;
      (6)   Side yards may be up to 25 feet on corner lots at the Commission’s
discretion; and
      (7)   Decks and patios may extend ten feet into a front yard.
(Prior Code, § 16.11.08) (Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 879, passed - -)
§ 154.188 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The maximum height for all buildings and structures shall be 45 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.11.09) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT (MHP)
§ 154.200 INTENT.
   The intent of the Manufactured Home Park District (MHP) is to preserve and
enhance property values in the city by providing designated, distinctive areas
in which manufactured homes may be situated as a residential dwelling. It is
the intent that this district be a desirable, prominent area providing adequate
open space and essentially the same considerations given to citizens of other
residential districts.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.201 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in a
Manufactured Home Park District (MHP):
   (A)   Manufactured homes, pursuant to §
154.383;
   (B)   Utility facilities; and
   (C)   Parks.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.202 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in a
Manufactured Home Park District (MHP):
   (A)   Garages;
   (B)   Accessory buildings;
   (C)   Home occupations;
   (D)   Day cares, family;
   (E)   Swimming pools, pursuant to §
154.389;
   (F)   Laundry facilities;
   (G)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (H)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (I)   Signs, real estate;
   (J)   Signs, banner;
   (K)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (L)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (M)   Signs, flag; and
   (N)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.203 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in a Manufactured Home Park
District (MHP):
   (A)   Self-storage warehouses;
   (B)   Day cares, group family home;
   (C)   Day care centers;
   (D)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (E)   Signs, portable;
   (F)   Signs, ground and monument;
   (G)   Signs, mounted wall; and
   (H)   Towers.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.204 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that the zoning chapter will permit all similar uses in
each district, the Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written
and after review and recommendation by the Planning Commission, shall determine
whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory or conditional
use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or conditional use in
one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.205 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   No part of any park shall be used for nonresidential purposes, except such
uses that are required for the direct servicing and well being of park
residents and for the management and maintenance of the park.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.206 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum park size is three acres.
   (B)   The minimum park width is 300 feet.
   (C)   The minimum lot area for individual manufactured homes shall be 4,000
square feet.
   (D)   The density of any manufactured home park shall not exceed eight units
per gross acre.
   (E)   The net density of any particular acre shall not exceed ten units per
net (gross reduced by required yards, streets and the like) acre.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.207 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All yards must meet the following criteria as measured from the lot
line.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all buildings and structures, including,
but not limited to, decks, patios and garages:
      (1)   The minimum distance required for the separation of a manufactured
home from side and rear lot lines shall be six feet. In no case shall a
manufactured home be closer than 12 feet from another manufactured home;
      (2)   The minimum setback distance required from a private drive or
public right-of-way shall be 20 feet;
      (3)   Accessory buildings shall not encroach on minimum yard
requirements; and
      (D)   Decks and patios may extend ten feet into a front yard.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 879,
passed - -)
§ 154.208 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The applicant follows the rezoning process pursuant to §§
154.505 through
154.507;
   (B)   A request for a change in zoning districts to a Manufactured Home Park
District shall set forth the location and legal description of the proposed
manufactured home park property;
   (C)   (1)   Each application for a manufactured home park shall be
accompanied by a detailed site development plan incorporating the regulations
established herein.
      (2)   The plan shall be drawn to scale and indicate the following:
         (a)   Location and topography of the proposed manufactured home park,
including adjacent property owners and proximity to federal and state highways,
and to county, township or city roads;
         (b)   Exterior and interior property or individual lot lines with
dimensions and square footage of the proposed park;
         (c)   Location and dimensions of all easements and rights-of-way;
         (d)   Proposed lot layout, including parking and recreational areas;
         (e)   General street and pedestrian walkway plan;
         (f)   General utility, water and sewer plan with proximity and
proposed connection to municipal and/or private utilities; and
         (g)   Site drainage plan and development impact on culverts and the
like.
   (D)   Certification of compliance with all ordinances and regulations
regarding manufactured home park licensing and zoning, health, plumbing,
electrical, building, fire prevention and all other applicable ordinances and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.09) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.209 MANUFACTURED HOME REGULATIONS WITHIN A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   (A)   Generally. Manufactured home developments should be located to avoid
the need for excessive traffic movement from the park to pass through an
existing single-family residential area or area suitable for future single-
family residential development.
   (B)   Access and street requirements.
      (1)   All manufactured home spaces must be served from internal private
streets within the manufactured home park and there shall be no direct access
from a manufactured home space to a public street or alley.
      (2)   Internal private streets must be graveled at a minimum and kept in
good repair to prevent excessive potholes or pooling of water.
      (3)   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for
each manufactured home lot; guest parking of one parking space per five
manufactured home spaces shall be interspersed throughout the manufactured home
park.
      (4)   No internal private street access to public streets shall be
located closer than 100 feet to any public street intersection.
      (5)   Stop signs shall be placed at all public street intersections and
yield signs placed appropriately on internal private streets.
      (6)   Entrance to manufactured home parks shall have direct connections
to a public road and shall be designed to allow free movement of traffic on
such public roads.
      (7)   Streets should be of adequate widths to accommodate the
contemplated parking and traffic load in accordance with the type of street
with 12-foot minimum moving lanes for collector streets, 12- foot minimum
moving lanes for minor streets and eight-foot minimum lanes for parallel.
   (C)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Manufactured homes may be of single or multiple sections and shall
not be less than 14 feet as assembled on the site, as measured across the
narrowest portion.
      (2)   Provided with skirting material, which is not highly combustible
and installed around the perimeter of the home from the bottom of the
manufactured home to the ground.
      (3)   The hitch shall be removed.
      (4)   All electric service shall be underground.
      (5)   Each manufactured home lot shall be connected to the city water and
sewer systems with individual utility service lines and valves as approved by
the city.
      (6)   If individual collection points are not available, each
manufactured home park shall provide screened areas or enclosed containers
accessible for refuse collection of an adequate size for the number of units
served, and shall provide for the disposal of such refuse on a regularly
scheduled basis.
      (7)   Anchored to the ground to resist tipping and lateral movement in
the manner contemplated by the manufactured design.
      (8)   Not less than 10% of the gross site area shall be devoted and
maintained as recreational facilities for occupant needs.
      (9)   No manufactured home shall occupy more than 50% of the area of the
lot on which it is situated.
      (10)   A landscaped buffer area of 12 feet in width shall be provided and
maintained around the perimeter of the park, except where walks and drives
penetrate the buffer.
      (11)   The manufactured home shall meet or exceed the federal HUD
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards.
      (12)   Additional development requirements may be prescribed as
conditions for approval when determined to be necessary to ensure protection of
the neighboring property’s character, compatibility with land uses, and health
and safety of manufactured home park occupants.
(Prior Code, § 16.12.10) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
RECREATION, EDUCATION AND CONSERVATION DISTRICT (REC)
§ 154.220 INTENT.
   This district is for recreation and related uses. The intent is that this
district has a minimum impact on any adjacent residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 16.13.01) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.221 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in a
Recreation, Education and Conservation District (REC):
   (A)   Public recreation facility;
   (B)   Conservation activities and facilities;
   (C)   Schools;
   (D)   Public buildings;
   (E)   Arts and cultural facilities;
   (F)   Fairgrounds; and
   (G)   Utility facilities.
(Prior Code, § 16.13.02) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.222 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in a
Recreation, Education and Conservation District (REC):
   (A)   Parking spaces, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (B)   Hay production;
   (C)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (D)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (E)   Signs, real estate;
   (F)   Signs, banner;
   (G)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (H)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (I)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (J)   Signs, portable;
   (K)   Signs, ground and monument;
   (L)   Signs, flag; and
   (M)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.13.03) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.223 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in a Recreation, Education,
and Conservation District (REC):
   (A)   Campgrounds;
   (B)   Shooting ranges;
   (C)   Commercial recreational facility;
   (D)   Gardens, nursery and tree farm; and
   (E)   Towers, pursuant to §
154.388.
(Prior Code, § 16.13.04) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.224 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that the zoning chapter will permit all similar uses in
each district, the Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written
application and after review and recommendation of the Planning Commission,
shall determine whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory
or conditional use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or
conditional use in one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses
specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.13.05) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.225 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures not specifically permitted as principal, accessory
or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.224 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.13.06) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.226 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum lot area shall not be less than 40,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.13.07) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.227 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All yards must meet the following criteria as measured from the lot
lines.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all buildings and structures:
      (1)   Front yard (any yard with street frontage): 25 feet;
      (2)   Interior lot lines adjacent to residential property: ten feet; and
      (3)   Signs are allowed within required front yards if they do not
significantly impact neighboring residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 16.13.08) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.228 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The maximum height for all buildings and structures shall be 45 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.13.09) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-1)
§ 154.240 INTENT.
   The intent of the Highway Commercial District (C-1) is to provide for a
commercial area for those businesses that normally function with and need major
highway access.
(Prior Code, § 16.14.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.241 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in a Highway
Commercial District (C-1):
   (A)   Car washes;
   (B)   Bus depots;
   (C)   Construction services;
   (D)   Agricultural services and sales;
   (E)   Agricultural chemical sales and applications;
   (F)   Manufacturing;
   (G)   Lumber yards;
   (H)   Plumbing services;
   (I)   Heating, ventilating and air-conditioning services;
   (J)   Truck or equipment terminals;
   (K)   Veterinary clinics;
   (L)   Veterinary services;
   (M)   Electronic media studios;
   (N)   Offices;
   (O)   Financial institutions;
   (P)   Funeral homes;
   (Q)   Service establishments;
   (R)   Clinics;
   (S)   Bars;
   (T)   Wholesale sales;
   (U)   Greenhouses, commercial;
   (V)   Arcades;
   (W)   Motels;
   (X)   Hotels;
   (Y)   Dwelling units, second story or above;
   (Z)   Open sales areas;
   (AA)   Gasoline stations;
   (BB)   Convenience stores;
   (CC)   Garages, public;
   (DD)   Repair shops, motor vehicle;
   (EE)   Repair shops, auto-body;
   (FF)   Retail sales;
   (GG)   Rent-all shops;
   (HH)   Exhibition areas;
   (II)   Self-storage warehouses;
   (JJ)   Lockers;
   (KK)   Utility facilities;
   (LL)   Restaurants;
   (MM)   Restaurants, in-house;
   (NN)   Restaurants, drive-ins;
   (OO)   Theaters;
   (PP)   Theaters, drive-in; and
   (QQ)   Food product processing facilities.
(Prior Code, § 16.14.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.242 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in a Highway
Commercial District (C-1):
   (A)   Dwelling units as accessory uses to the principal use;
   (B)   Parking spaces, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (C)   Signs, exterior on-site;
   (D)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (E)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (F)   Signs, real estate;
   (G)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (H)   Signs, banner;
   (I)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (J)   Signs, mounted wall;
   (K)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (L)   Signs, projecting;
   (M)   Signs, roof;
   (N)   Signs, portable;
   (O)   Signs, ground and monument;
   (P)   Signs, flag; and
   (Q)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.14.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.243 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in a Highway Commercial
District (C-1):
   (A)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (B)   Manufactured homes;
   (C)   Modular homes;
   (D)   Dwellings, multi-family, pursuant to R-3 lot square footage, yard and
parking requirements;
   (E)   Schools, public;
   (F)   Schools, private or denominational;
   (G)   Warehouses;
   (H)   Outdoor storage areas, pursuant to §
154.386;
   (I)   Quarries and/or mining, pursuant to §
154.387;
   (J)   Amusement parks;
   (K)   Commercial outdoor recreation facilities;
   (L)   Signs, off-site;
   (M)   Towers, pursuant to §
154.388;
   (N)   Security dwelling units; and
   (O)    Campgrounds, pursuant to state law.
(Prior Code, § 16.14.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 932,
passed 9-3-2019)
§ 154.244 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that the zoning chapter will permit all similar uses in
each district, the Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written
application, shall determine whether a use not specifically listed as a
permitted, accessory or conditional use in a district shall be deemed a
permitted, accessory or conditional use in one or more districts on the basis
of similarity to uses specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.14.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.245 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures not specifically permitted as principal, accessory
or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.244 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.14.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.246 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.14.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.247 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All yards must meet the following criteria as measured from the lot
line.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all buildings and structures, including
but not limited to decks, patios and garages:
    (1)   Front yard: 20 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard: ten feet; and
      (3)   Side yard: ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.14.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.248 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The maximum height of structures shall be 45 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.14.09) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-2)
§ 154.260 INTENT.
   The intent of the Commercial District (C-2) is to provide a commercial use
other than the downtown main commercial district, without the large setbacks of
a Highway Commercial District (C-1).
(Prior Code, § 16.15.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.261 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in a
Commercial District (C-2):
   (A)   Retail sales;
   (B)   Financial institutions;
   (C)   Service establishments;
   (D)   Clubs;
   (E)   Financial services;
   (F)   Governmental services;
   (G)   Hospitals;
   (H)   Clinics;
   (I)   Bars;
   (J)   Dwelling units, second story and above;
   (K)   Restaurants;
   (L)   Gasoline stations;
   (M)   Bus depots;
   (N)   Heating, ventilating, air-conditioning sales and service;
   (O)   Theaters;
   (P)   Electronic media studios;
   (Q)   Arcades;
   (R)   Health and fitness clubs;
   (S)   Utility facilities;
   (T)   Secondhand shops;
   (U)   Thrift shops;
   (V)   Offices;
   (W)   Bowling alleys;
   (X)   Parking spaces, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (Y)   Veterinary clinics;
   (Z)   Funeral homes;
   (AA)   Food product processing facilities; and
   (BB)   Cannabis dispensary (subject to §
154.396).
(Prior Code, § 16.15.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord.
1014, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 154.262 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in a
Commercial District (C-2):
   (A)   Signs, exterior on-site;
   (B)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (C)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (D)   Signs, real estate;
   (E)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (F)   Signs, banner;
   (G)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (H)   Signs, mounted wall;
   (I)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (J)   Signs, flag;
   (K)   Signs, projecting;
   (L)   Signs, roof;
   (M)   Signs, portable;
   (N)   Signs, ground and monument; and
   (O)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.15.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.263 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in a Commercial District (C-
2):
   (A)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (B)   Manufactured homes;
   (C)   Modular homes;
   (D)   Dwellings, multi-family, pursuant to R-3 lot square footage, yard and
parking requirements.
   (E)   Schools, public;
   (F)   Schools, private or denominational;
   (G)   Churches;
   (H)   Nursing, rest and convalescent homes;
   (I)   Day care centers;
   (J)   Day cares, family;
   (K)   Day cares, group family home;
   (L)   Hotels;
   (M)   Motels;
   (N)   Manufacturing;
   (O)   Lockers;
   (P)   Self-storage warehouses;
   (Q)   Pawn shops;
   (R)   Signs, off-site; and
   (S)   Towers.
(Prior Code, § 16.15.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.264 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that the zoning chapter will permit all similar uses in
each district, the Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written
application and after review and recommendation of the Planning Commission,
shall determine whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory
or conditional use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or
conditional use in one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses
specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.15.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.265 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures not specifically permitted as principal, accessory
or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.264 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.15.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.266 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be 2,500 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be 25 feet.
   (C)   The minimum lot depth shall be 100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.15.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.267 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Commercial District (C-2) shall be exempt from yard requirements
except where the district abuts a residential district.
   (B)   In such cases:
      (1)   There shall be an open space of not less than a depth of 20 feet as
measured to the front building line;
      (2)   There shall be an open space of not less than a depth of six feet
as measured to the rear building line except when bordering an alley; and
      (3)   (a)   There shall be open spaces of not less than a depth of six
feet, up to 20 feet on corner lots at the Board’s discretion, as measured from
the side building lines.
         (b)   The Board shall base its determination upon the prevailing
neighborhood patterns and public safety.
(Prior Code, § 16.15.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.268 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The maximum height of structures shall be 45 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.15.09) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT DOWNTOWN (C-2DT)
§ 154.280 INTENT.
   The intent of the Commercial District Downtown (C-2DT) is to provide a
commercial in the downtown main commercial district, without the setbacks or
off-street parking requirements.
(Prior Code, § 16.16.01) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.281 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in a
Commercial District (C-2DT):
   (A)   Retail sales;
   (B)   Financial institutions;
   (C)   Service establishments;
   (D)   Clubs;
   (E)   Financial services;
   (F)   Governmental services;
   (G)   Hospitals;
   (H)   Clinics;
   (I)   Bars;
   (J)   Dwelling units, second story and above;
   (K)   Restaurants;
   (L)   Bus depots;
   (M)   Heating, ventilating, air-conditioning sales and service;
   (N)   Theaters;
   (O)   Electronic media studios;
   (P)   Arcades;
   (Q)   Health and fitness clubs;
   (R)   Utility facilities;
   (S)   Secondhand shops;
   (T)   Thrift shops;
   (U)   Offices;
   (V)   Bowling alleys;
   (W)   Parking spaces, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (X)   Veterinary clinics;
   (Y)   Funeral homes;
   (Z)   Food product processing facilities; and
   (AA)   Cannabis dispensary (subject to §
154.396).
(Prior Code, § 16.16.02) (Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 1014, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 154.282 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in a
Commercial Downtown District (C-2DT):
   (A)   Signs, exterior on-site;
   (B)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (C)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (D)   Signs, real estate;
   (E)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (F)   Signs, banner;
   (G)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (H)   Signs, mounted wall;
   (I)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (J)   Signs, projecting;
   (K)   Signs, roof;
   (L)   Signs, portable;
   (M)   Signs, ground and monument;
   (N)   Signs, flag; and
   (O)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.16.03) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.283 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in a Commercial Downtown
District (C-2DT):   
   (A)   Dwellings, single-family;
   (B)   Dwellings, multi-family;
   (C)   Manufactured homes;
   (D)   Schools, public;
   (E)   Schools, private or denominational;
   (F)   Churches;
   (G)   Nursing, rest and convalescent homes;
   (H)   Day care centers;
   (I)   Day cares, family;
   (J)   Day cares, group family home;
   (K)   Hotels;
   (L)   Motels;
   (M)   Manufacturing;
   (N)   Lockers;
   (O)   Pawn shops;
   (P)   Signs, off-site; and
   (Q)   Towers.
(Prior Code, § 16.16.04) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.284 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that-all similar uses in each district are permitted, the
Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written application and
after review and recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall determine
whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory or conditional
use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or conditional use in
one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.16.05) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.285 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures not specifically permitted as principal, accessory
or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.284 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.16.06) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.286 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be 2,500 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be 25 feet.
   (C)   The minimum lot depth shall be 100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.16.07) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.287 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The Commercial District Downtown (C-2 DT) shall be exempt from yard
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 16.16.08) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.288 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The maximum height of structures shall be 45 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.16.09) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.289 BUILDING APPROVAL.
   The Planning Commission must approve plans for all principal permitted uses
and structures that are to be built in the areas zoned Commercial District
Downtown.
(Prior Code, § 16.16.10) (Ord. 828, passed - -)
HEALTHCARE DISTRICT (H)
§ 154.300 INTENT.
   This district is for healthcare and related uses. The intent is that this
district has a minimum impact on any adjacent residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 16.17.01) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.301 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in a
Healthcare District (H):
   (A)   Hospitals;
   (B)   Nursing and rest homes;
   (C)   Convalescent centers;
   (D)   Congregate housing;
   (E)   Assisted living facilities;
   (F)   Residential care facilities;
   (G)   Public buildings;
   (H)   Churches;
   (I)   Parks; and
   (J)   Utility facilities.
(Prior Code, § 16.17.02) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.302 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in a
Healthcare District (H):
   (A)   Parking spaces, pursuant to §§
154.425 through
154.440;
   (B)   Housing facilities;
   (C)   Day care centers;
   (D)   Swimming pools, pursuant to §
154.389;
   (E)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (F)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (G)   Signs, real estate;
   (H)   Signs, banner;
   (I)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (J)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (K)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (L)   Signs, portable;
   (M)   Signs, ground and monument;
   (N)   Signs, flag; and
   (O)   Accessory structures and uses customary incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.17.03) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.303 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in a Healthcare District
(H):
   (A)   Modular homes;
   (B)   Manufactured homes, pursuant to §
154.383;
   (C)   Clubs;
   (D)   Funeral homes;
   (E)   Helipads; and
   (F)   Towers, pursuant to §
154.388.
(Prior Code, § 16.17.04) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.304 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that the zoning chapter will permit all similar uses in
each district, the Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written
application and after review and recommendation of the Planning Commission,
shall determine whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory
or conditional use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or
conditional use in one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses
specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.17.05) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.305 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures not specifically permitted as principal, accessory
or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.304 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.17.06) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.306 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum lot area shall not be less than 6,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.17.07) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.307 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All yards must meet the following criteria as measured from the lot
lines.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all buildings and structures:
      (1)   Front yard (any yard with street frontage): 25 feet;
      (2)   Interior lot lines adjacent to residential property: ten feet; and
      (3)   Signs are allowed within required front yards if they do not
significantly impact neighboring residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 16.17.08) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.308 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The maximum height for all buildings and structures shall be 45 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.17.09) (Ord. 800, passed - -)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I)
§ 154.320 INTENT.
   This intent of the Industrial District (I) is to provide for the future
development of new industrial and certain commercial activities in areas where
municipal utilities are most readily available and in areas where ingress and
egress can be provided in a safe and convenient manner. The activities located
in this district should be engaged in either manufacturing or wholesale
commercial trade.
(Prior Code, § 16.18.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.321 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following principal uses and structures shall be permitted in an
Industrial District (I):
   (A)   Truck or equipment terminals;
   (B)   Wholesale sales;
   (C)   Warehousing;
   (D)   Manufacturing;
   (E)   Food product processing facilities;
   (F)   Agriculture product processing facilities;
   (G)   Fertilizer production or processing;
   (H)   Agricultural chemical sales and applications;
   (I)   Open sales area;
   (J)   Veterinary services;
   (K)   Veterinary clinics;
   (L)   Services;
   (M)   Repair, auto body;
   (N)   Repair, motor vehicle;
   (O)   Concrete plants;
   (P)   Asphalt plants;
   (Q)   Tank farms;
   (R)   Machine shops;
   (S)   Gasoline stations;
   (T)   Truck or equipment repair;
   (U)   Beverage bottling or distribution;
   (V)   Grain elevators;
   (W)   Lockers;
   (X)   Outdoor storage areas, pursuant to §
154.386;
   (Y)   Lumber yards;
   (Z)   Junk yards;
   (AA)   Salvage yards;
   (BB)   Recycling centers;
   (CC)   Utility facilities;
   (DD)   Security dwelling units;
   (EE)   Schools, trade or commercial;
   (FF)   Restaurants, in-house; and
   (GG)   Kennels.
(Prior Code, § 16.18.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.322 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in an
Industrial District (I):
   (A)   Signs, exterior, on-site;
   (B)   Signs, directional on-site;
   (C)   Signs, directional off-site;
   (D)   Signs, real estate;
   (E)   Signs, bulletin board;
   (F)   Signs, banner;
   (G)   Signs, name and address plate;
   (H)   Signs, mounted wall;
   (I)   Signs, easement and utility;
   (J)   Signs, projecting;
   (K)   Signs, roof;
   (L)   Signs, portable;
   (M)   Signs, ground and monument;
   (N)   Signs, flag;
   (O)   Security dwellings;
   (P)   Outdoor storage areas, pursuant to §
154.386; and
   (Q)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 16.18.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.323 CONDITIONAL USES.
   After the provisions relating to conditional uses have been fulfilled, the
Board of Adjustment may permit as conditional uses in an Industrial District
(I):
   (A)   Bars;
   (B)   Signs, off-site; and
   (C)   Towers, pursuant to §
154.388.
(Prior Code, § 16.18.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.324 CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   In order to ensure that all similar uses in each district are permitted, the
Board of Adjustment, upon its own initiative or upon written application and
after review and recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall determine
whether a use not specifically listed as a permitted, accessory or conditional
use in a district shall be deemed a permitted, accessory or conditional use in
one or more districts on the basis of similarity to uses specifically listed.
(Prior Code, § 16.18.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.325 PROHIBITED USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All uses and structures not specifically permitted as principal, accessory
or conditional uses or approved as such within the provisions of §
154.324 shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16.18.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.326 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   None required.
(Prior Code, § 16.18.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.327 MINIMUM YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   None required.
(Prior Code, § 16.18.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.328 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   The maximum height of structures shall be 45 feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.18.09) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (PUD)
§ 154.340 INTENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter are to be applied in instances where
tracts of land of considerable size are developed, redeveloped or renewed as
integrated and harmonious units, and where the overall design of such units is
so outstanding as to warrant modification of the standards contained elsewhere
in this chapter.
   (B)   A planned development, to be eligible under this subchapter, must be:
      (1)   In accordance with the comprehensive plan of the city, including
all plans for redevelopment and renewal;
      (2)   Composed of such uses, and in such proportions, as are most
appropriate and necessary for the integrated functioning of the planned
development and for the city; and
      (3)   So designed in its space allocation, orientation, texture,
materials, landscaping and other features as to produce an environment of
stable and desirable character, complementing the design and values of the
surrounding neighborhood, and showing such unusual merit as to reflect credit
upon the developer and upon the city.
(Prior Code, § 16.19.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.341 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   An applicant for consideration under the terms of this district,
who must be owner, lessee or the holder of a written purchase option of the
tract of land under consideration, shall submit to the Planning Commission a
plan for the proposed planned development unit.
      (2)   The plan shall indicate:
         (a)   The location and extent of the proposed planned development
unit, including its relationship to surrounding properties;
         (b)   The exact nature and extent of improvements to be developed or
erected upon the tract, including:
            1.   An accurate map of the area covered by the plan;
            2.   The pattern of public and private roads, driveways, walkways
and parking facilities;
            3.   Detailed lot layout and subdivision plan where required;
            4.   The arrangement of building groups and their architectural
character;
            5.   Sanitary sewer and water mains;
            6.   Grading plan and storm drainage system;
            7.   The location and treatment of open space areas and
recreational or other special amenities;
            8.   The location and description of any areas to be dedicated to
the public;
            9.   General landscape treatment;
            10.   Proof of financing capability;
            11.   Analysis of economic impact upon the community;
            12.   A development schedule indicating:
               a.   The approximate date when construction of the project can
be expected to begin;
               b.   The stages in which the project will be built and the
approximate date when construction of each stage can be expected to begin;
               c.   The anticipated rate of development;
               d.   The approximate date when the development of each of the
stages will be completed; and
               e.   The area and location of common open space that will be
provided at each stage.
            13.   Agreements, bylaws, provisions or covenants that govern the
organizational structure, use, maintenance and continued protection of the
planned unit development and any of its common services, common open areas or
other facilities; and
            14.   Any other plans, documents or schedules requested by the
city.
         (c)   Such other information as may be required by the Planning
Commission to determine if the proposed planned development unit is consistent
with the intent of the district.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall, within 60 days of receiving the
plan for the proposed development unit, consider such plan at a minimum of one
regular Planning Commission meeting. Upon consideration, the Planning
Commission shall inform the applicant in writing of its approval or denial of
the plan.
      (2)   In the event of denial, the Planning Commission shall inform the
applicant of the reason(s) for denial, including any recommended modifications
in the plan, which would cause the Planning Commission to reconsider.
   (C)   Upon approval of the plan by the Planning Commission, it shall forward
its written recommendations to the City Council along with a copy of the
approved plan, that the tract be designated a Planned Unit Development District
(PUD) by amendment of the official zoning map.
   (D)   Upon receiving the Planning Commission’s written recommendation, the
City Council shall consider the amendment of the official zoning map as
provided elsewhere in this chapter.
   (E)   Following the amendment of the official zoning map by the City
Council, the City Zoning Administrator may, upon proper application, issue a
building permit for construction of the planned development unit in accordance
with the approved plan.
(Prior Code, § 16.19.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.342 SUBSEQUENT PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The building site and operational plans for the development, as
approved, as well as other commitments and contractual agreements with the city
offered or required with regard to project value, character and other factors
pertinent to an assurance that the proposed development will be carried out
basically as presented in the official submittal plans, shall be recorded by
the developer within 90 days after approval of the specific implementation plan
in the County Register of Deeds office.
      (2)   This shall include posting a performance bond or certified check
with the city guaranteeing that required improvements will be constructed
according to the approved implementation schedule.
      (3)   This shall be accomplished prior to the issuance of any zoning
building permit.
   (B)   Following issuance of a building permit for the planned development
unit by the Zoning Administrator, the applicant shall begin construction within
a period of six months. Failure to do so shall invalidate the building permit.
Construction shall follow precisely the plan approved by the Planning
Commission to which modifications may be granted only by the Planning
Commission upon the filing of an amended plan. Failure to follow the approved
plan on the part of the applicant or his or her agent shall be considered a
violation of this chapter punishable as herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 16.19.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
154.999
AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 154.355 PURPOSE.
   The intent of this subchapter is to avoid, through the application of
special regulations, airport hazards that could endanger the lives and property
of airport users and other persons in the vicinity of the Winner Airport. The
regulations are adopted in conformity with SDCL § 50-10 for the purpose of
preventing obstructions that reduce the size of the area available for the
landing, take-off and maneuvering of aircraft and that tend to destroy or
impair the utility of the airport and the public investment therein.
(Prior Code, § 16.20.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.356 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except as necessary
and incidental to airport operations, no structure or tree shall be
constructed, altered, maintained or allowed to grow in any airspace zone
defined herein, so as to project above any of the imaginary airspace surfaces.
   (B)   Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more
restrictive limitation shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 16.20.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.357 LAND USE SAFETY ZONING.
   The following safety zone boundaries have been created and established in
order to carry out the purpose of this subchapter:
   (A)   Safety Zone A. All that land in the approach zones of a runway that is
located within a horizontal distance of 1,000 feet from each end of the primary
zone and in the seven to one (7:1) transitional zones to the 50-foot contour;
and
   (B)   Safety Zone B. All that land in the approach zones of a runway that is
located within a horizontal distance of 3,000 feet from end of the primary zone
and is not included in Zone A.
(Prior Code, § 16.20.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.358 GENERAL USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth in §
154.356, no use shall be made of any land in any of the safety zones defined in
§
154.357 that creates or causes interference with the operations of radio or
electronic facilities at the airport or with radio or electronic communications
between the airport and aircraft, makes it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between airport lights and other light, results in glare in the eyes of pilots
using the airport, impairs visibility in the vicinity of the airport or
otherwise endangers the landing, taking off or maneuvering of aircraft.
(Prior Code, § 16.20.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.359 ZONE A USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth in §
154.356 and to the general restrictions contained in §
154.358, areas designated as Zone A shall contain no buildings or temporary
structures and shall be restricted to those uses that will not create, attract
or bring together an assembly of persons thereon. Permitted uses may include
agriculture, cemeteries and auto parking.
(Prior Code, § 16.20.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.360 ZONE B USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth in §
154.356 and to the general restrictions contained in §
154.358, areas designated as Zone B shall only be used for agriculture and
residential purposes, provided that the residential densities do not exceed
those required in the Agricultural (AG) District.
(Prior Code, § 16.20.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.361 NONCONFORMING USES.
   The owner of any nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to
permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such markers and
lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator to indicate to
the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such
airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated and
maintained at the expense of the city.
(Prior Code, § 16.20.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.362 PERMITS, VARIANCES AND CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any permit or variance granted by the Zoning Administrator or Board of
Adjustment as the case may be, may, if such action is deemed advisable to
effectuate the purpose of this subchapter and be reasonable in the
circumstances, so condition such permit or variance as to require the owner of
the structure or tree in question at his or her own expense, to install,
operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to
indicate to pilots the presence of an airport hazard.
(Prior Code, § 16.20.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.375 FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   (A)   Fences in the front yard, as defined in §
154.016:
      (1)   Shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to
construction;
      (2)   Shall not exceed four feet in height; and
      (3)   Shall be constructed of a material that does not impede motorist’s
vision.
   (B)   Fences, walls and hedges built or planted in side and rear yards:
      (1)   Within the agriculture, residential, and manufactured home park
districts, shall not exceed six feet in height; and
      (2)   Within the commercial and industrial districts, shall not exceed
eight feet in height and shall have written approval by the Zoning
Administrator prior to construction.
   (C)   Fences constructed on property abutting an arterial street shall be
set back ten feet from the property line. A variance request may be filed in
accordance with the applicable sections of this chapter.
   (D)   Property owners proposing to construct a fence should consider a
maintenance buffer of one foot. Said buffer shall be measured from the property
line to the outermost plane edge of the fence.
   (E)   Fences shall be constructed of appropriate material including chain
link, wood, vinyl, metal, masonry or wire and shall be neat and presentable.
Fences shall be constructed with the most visibly pleasing side facing the
right-of-way or adjacent property.
   (F)   Outdoor storage areas, as defined in §
154.016, shall be enclosed by an opaque fence or planted screen with a height
of six feet in residential districts and shall not exceed eight feet in height
in commercial and industrial districts as measured from the prevailing grade.
   (G)   Fences constructed for screening garbage bins or dumpsters shall not
exceed six feet in height and shall be constructed of an opaque material or
chain link with slats. Said fence shall comply with applicable yard
requirements.
   (H)   This section shall not apply to those entities where safety and
controlled access regulations require fencing exceeding these standards.
However, said entities shall have written approval by the Zoning Administrator
prior to construction.
   (I)   Aforementioned fence height restrictions are eligible for
consideration of a variance. All requests for variance except those identified
in division (H) above shall be in accordance with the process as described in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.376 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All accessory buildings, including, but not limited to, greenhouses
and playground equipment, shall meet the setbacks for the district in which it
is located with the exception of utility sheds in residential districts per §
154.392.
   (B)   The use of portable storage units (PODs, shipping containers) in
residential districts are limited to one such unit per residence, limited to
two consecutive six-month periods with the building permit fees set by
resolution and on file with the City Finance Office. Provided, however, a
single portable storage unit (POD, shipping container) may be permanently
placed on the property if it is clad to resemble a light-frame structure. The
cladding would require the unit to be encased with conventional house siding
(flat or corrugated sheet metal is prohibited) compatible in appearance with
the other structure(s) on the premises, the roof shall have a minimum pitch of
three inches of rise for each 12 inches of horizontal run and shall be finished
in conventional roofing products, and the door(s) must be covered to resemble
doors on an accessory structure (utility shed). If the portable storage unit
(POD, shipping container) is going to become a permanent structure, it must
have the above alterations made within the first six-month period, it must be
placed in the side yard or rear yard, is subject to all setback requirements,
and shall not be placed closer than 12 feet from any adjoining property owner's
residence.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the term "PODs, shipping containers",
in addition to their normally accepted meanings, shall include things such as a
semi-trailer, a truck cargo box, a truck or van body, or similar things that
were originally designed to be mobile or portable and were used in the
transportation or delivery of goods, whether or not a chassis or wheels remain
attached to the underside of it.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all existing PODs,
shipping containers on any property that is subject to this chapter. Existing
units are not grandfathered in.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 998,
passed 5-3-2021)
§ 154.377 ERECTION OF MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE ON A LOT.
   In any district, more than one structure housing a permitted or permissible
principal use may be erected on a single lot, provided, that yard and other
requirements of this chapter shall be met for each structure as though it were
on an individual lot.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.378 STRUCTURES TO HAVE ACCESS.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a
public street, or with access to an approved private street, and all structures
shall be so located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for
servicing, fire protection and required off-street parking.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.379 PARKING, STORAGE OR USE OF MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   Recreational vehicles shall not be used for living, sleeping or housekeeping
purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot, or any location not
approved for such use. Provided, however, they may be used for said purpose for
not more than 72 consecutive hours in a month; or for more than 72 hours but
not more than 14 days, after first obtaining a permit from the Code Enforcement
Officer and paying the fee of $25. No more than one permit will be authorized
in any calendar year for the same vehicle or the same family. The 72 hour
permissive period, or the permit for up to 14 days, require parking the vehicle
off-street on private property. Under no circumstances will on-street living,
sleeping or housekeeping in a recreational vehicle be permitted at any time. A
violation of this section shall be punished as provided in § 10.99 of this
code.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord.
1070, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 154.380 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Parking lots, meeting the minimum off-street parking requirements as
described herein, shall be adjacent to the structure it serves and shall meet
the requirements that include vehicular access to a street or alley, and 200
square feet of parking space per vehicle.
   (B)   Parking lots shall conform to the city’s standards.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.381 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Temporary buildings are permissible for uses incidental to construction work
provided such buildings are removed promptly upon termination of construction
work.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.09) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.382 UNIQUE LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Through lots. In the case of through lots, the front yards on either
side of the block will match the prevailing yard patterns on each side of the
block. The administrative official may waive the requirement for the normal
front yard and substitute a special yard requirement, which shall not exceed
the average of the yards, provided on adjacent lots.
   (B)   Corner lots. In the case of corner lots which do not have reversed
frontage, a front yard of the required depth shall be provided in accordance
with the prevailing yard pattern and a second front yard of the depth required
generally for front yards in the district shall be provided on the other
frontage or prevailing frontage on that street.
   (C)   Reversed frontage corner lots. In the case of reversed frontage corner
lots, a front yard of required depth shall be provided on either frontage, and
a second front yard, of the depth required generally for front yards in the
district, shall be provided on the other frontage.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.10) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.383 MODULAR HOME AND MANUFACTURED HOME PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   Modular homes or manufactured homes sited within a residential district
(excluding existing manufactured home parks) shall comply with the following
conditions.
   (A)   The placement of a modular home or a manufactured home must meet the
minimum setback requirements for the residential district as set forth in the
code.
   (B)   All manufactured homes shall be supported and anchored in accordance
with the manufacturer’s installation instructions, the Federal Model
Manufactured Home Installation Standard 24 C.F.R. part 3285, being 24 C.F.R. §§
3285.1 through 3285.907, or as approved by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator. All modular homes shall be anchored or otherwise connected to
the foundation under it.
   (C)   A continuous footing must be placed around the entire perimeter of the
home (as per the illustration provided by Planning and Zoning). Even to the
extent that any portion of the perimeter is not placed on a load-bearing
footing, still there must be a continuous above-ground footing consisting of
mortar and concrete blocks, or similar permanent block materials that encloses
completely the space between the bottom of the exterior wall of the house, and
the ground level foundation or footing.
   (D)   The pitch of the main roof shall not be less than three inches of rise
for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
   (E)   The roof shall be finished with conventional residential roofing
products, such as shingles or colored manufactured roofing steel. Flat or
corrugated sheet metal is prohibited.
   (F)   The exterior walls shall be encased with conventional house siding
(flat or corrugated sheet metal is prohibited).
   (G)   Skirting or similar materials shall not be permissible. See division
(C) above for the requirement of a permanent block material of mortar or
concrete blocks.
   (H)   Running gear and hitch shall be removed.
   (I)   The minimum width of the main body of the modular home or manufacture
home as assembled on the site shall not be less than 24 feet nominal width.
   (J)   Manufactured homes and modular homes shall meet or exceed the federal
standards.
   (K)   The city shall inspect and approve the foundation prior to placement
of the home.
   (L)   The minimum size of living space in any modular home or manufactured
home for which no minimum is provided in this code shall be 750 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.11) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 890,
passed - -; Ord. 1058, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 154.384 EXISTING TRAILER PARKS.
   (A)   Existing trailer parks are allowed to continue operation without any
changes, modifications, additions or increases except normal repair and
maintenance.
   (B)   Single-wide manufactured homes are not allowed within the city except
in existing trailer parks or mobile home parks.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.12) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.385 FLOODWAY.
   The purpose of this section is to protect open spaces and natural drainage
courses in their capacity to carry runoff water and to limit uses of land in
areas subject to flooding and prevent the destruction or pollution of valuable
and irreplaceable natural resources and prevent encroachment of uses which
would reduce the future potential of these resources.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.13) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.386 LANDFILLS AND RESTRICTED USE SITES.
   Landfills and restricted use sites shall not be located within the city.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.14) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.387 QUARRIES AND/OR MINING.
   All mining activity shall be conducted in accordance with SDCL § 45-6.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.15) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.388 TOWERS.
   Towers shall be located, constructed and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.395, whether they are to be used in telecommunications or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.16) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 894,
passed - -)
§ 154.389 SWIMMING POOLS.
   Swimming pools shall be enclosed by fencing that is at least five feet high
or protected by a listed pool safety cover.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.17) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.390 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   No use shall be permitted to be established or maintained that by reason of
its nature or manner of operation is, or may become, hazardous, noxious or
offensive owing to the emission of odor, dust, smoke, cinders, gas, fumes,
noise vibrations, refuse matter or water-carried waste. All facilities required
for the discharge, collection and treatment of liquid, solid or gaseous wastes
shall be designed, constructed, and operated in accordance with applicable laws
and regulations of the state.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.18) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.391 LOCATION OF CARNIVALS.
   No carnivals and the like shall be allowed to set up operation closer than
200 feet from any residential, two-family or multi-family district.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.19) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.392 UTILITY SHEDS.
   Utility sheds not exceeding 120 square feet shall not be closer than six
inches to any property line in any required rear yard and shall not be placed
closer than 12 feet from any adjoining landowners dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.20) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.393 FLAMMABLE MATERIALS STORAGE AND TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT.
   No vehicles or equipment designed or utilized for the storage or transport
of flammable materials including, but not limited to, fuel, oil, propane or
chemicals shall be located in a residential district. This section shall
include extended or overnight parking of transports not engaged in delivery
activities at the time of inspection or complaint.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.21) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.394 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish standards and
procedures by which the installation and operation of wind energy conversion
systems shall be governed within the city.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). Any mechanism or device designed
for the purpose of converting wind energy into electrical or mechanical power.
   (C)   General. Wind energy conversion systems shall be allowed only as a
conditional accessory use to a permitted principal or approved conditional
principal use in certain zoning districts.
   (D)   Limited use. Any wind energy conversion system shall be used only for
the purpose of generating power for the property on which the wind energy
conversion system is located.
   (E)   Utility interconnection.
      (1)   Any wind energy conversion system shall be constructed and
operated, and any interconnection between a wind energy conversion system and
an electric utility company shall be allowed only in accordance with all local,
state and federal regulations including regulations issued by the Public
Utilities Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration and pertaining to
State Public Utilities Commission Administrative Rule ARSD Chapter 20:10:36.
      (2)   Additionally, electrical interconnections shall be allowed only in
accordance with the applicable standards of the electric utility company. The
City Electric Department must first approve the interconnection before the WEC
can become operational.
   (F)   Setbacks. A minimum setback of one and one-tenth times the height of
the wind energy conversion system shall be maintained between the wind energy
conversion system and any property line. Further, any WECS shall meet all
applicable utility clearance setbacks in place by the electric utility service
the property upon which the WECS is being placed.
   (G)   Height. In no event shall the height of a wind energy conversion
system exceed 60 feet as measured from the ground to the top of the tower,
excluding the wind turbine generator and blades. Further, the lowest portion of
the blade shall be at least 30 feet above the ground. The height of a wind
energy conversion system must also comply with Federal Aviation Administration
regulations, 14 C.F.R. part 77, being §§ 77.1 through 77.41, Safe, Efficient
Use, and Preservation of the Navigable Airspace.
   (H)   Rotor size/operation. The maximum size of the rotors of a wind energy
conversion system shall be reviewed upon application for a conditional use. In
determining the appropriate size for the rotors, the city shall consider such
factors as noise, proximity to surrounding residences, safety and aesthetic
issues. All systems shall be equipped with appropriate braking devices or
similar protective devices to slow down or stop the rotors if the wind exceeds
the capacity of the system.
   (I)   Construction standards. Any wind energy conversion system shall be
constructed in accordance with all applicable Life, Safety, Building and Fire
Codes including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   An applicant for a building permit for a wind energy conversion
system shall submit plans and specifications stamped by a registered engineer;
and
      (2)   Lightning protection. Any wind energy conversion system shall have
appropriate lightning protection to sufficiently protect all connected and
adjacent equipment and structures from damage.
   (J)   Manufacturer warranty. At the time of application for a conditional
use, the petitioner shall provide documentation or other evidence from the
dealer or manufacturer that the wind energy conversion system has been
successfully operated in atmospheric conditions similar to the conditions
within the city. The wind energy conversion system shall be warranted against
any system failures reasonably expected in severe weather operation conditions.
   (K)   Tower access. To prevent unauthorized climbing, wind energy conversion
system towers must comply with one of the following provisions.
      (1)   Tower climbing apparatus shall not be located within 12 feet of the
ground.
      (2)   A locked anti-climb device shall be installed on the tower.
      (3)   Towers capable of being climbed shall be enclosed by a locked,
protective fence at least six feet high.
   (L)   Signs. One sign, limited to four square feet, shall be posted at the
base of the tower. The sign shall include a notice of no trespassing, a warning
of high voltage and the phone number of the property owner/operator to call in
case of emergency.
   (M)   Lighting. No lights shall be installed on the tower, unless required
to meet Federal Aviation Administration regulations.
   (N)   Noise. No wind energy conversion system shall produce more than 60
decibels of sound measured at the closest point on the closest property line
from the base of the system. Information from the manufacturer of the wind
energy conversion system shall be submitted at the time of the submittal of the
conditional use, ensuring that this requirement can be met once the system is
operational.
   (O)   Electromagnetic interference. No wind energy conversion system shall
produce electromagnetic interference so as to disrupt transmissions such as
those from radio, television or microwave towers. At the time of application
for the conditional use, the petitioner must submit information from the
manufacturer indicating that, once operational, the wind energy conversion
system will not adversely affect the transmissions. If necessary, generators
and alternators shall be filtered, shielded or both so as to prevent the
interruption and/or interference of radio and television signals.
   (P)   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any wind
energy conversion system conditional use permit to inspect the premises on
which the wind energy conversion system is located. If a wind energy conversion
system is not maintained in operational condition and poses a potential safety
hazard, the owner shall take expeditious action to correct the situation.
   (Q)   Abandonment. Any wind energy conversion system which has not been used
for a period of six months or more shall be deemed abandoned and shall be
dismantled and removed from the property at the expense of the property owner.
   (R)   The term Wind Energy Conversion System, as defined in §
154.016, will be included as a conditional use in all zoning districts in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.22) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.395 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations and
performance standards for the siting of wireless communication facilities
(WCFs) in a manner that will protect the public’s health, safety and welfare
and maintain the aesthetic integrity of the community.
   (B)   Permit required. An application for a building permit is required
prior to the construction of any WCF. Compliance with all applicable building
codes, navigation hazard requirements, Federal Aviation Administration
regulations and §§
154.355 through
154.362 must be achieved before a permit will be issued.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AMATEUR RADIO OPERATOR TOWER. A structure used for the transmission,
broadcast or reception of amateur radio or citizen band signals.
      ANTENNA. Any device that radiates or captures electromagnetic wave
signals including digital and analog voice and data signals or video or
microwave signals.
      ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. An existing building or structure such as, but
not limited to, utility poles, light poles, signs, elevated water tanks and
steeples upon which an applicant proposes to install wireless communications
facilities.
      BROADCAST TOWER. A structure for the transmission of radio or television
broadcast communications. This term does not include offices or studios.
      CO-LOCATION/SITE SHARING. Use of an antenna support structure or
telecommunications tower by two or more wireless license holders or by one
wireless license holder for more than one type of communication. This includes
the placement of a WCF on a structure owned and operated by a municipal or
public utility.
      DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS). A system consisting of:
         (a)   A number of remote communications nodes deployed throughout the
desired coverage area, with each node including at least one antenna, but not
more than three antennas per provider, for transmission and reception;
         (b)   A high capacity signal transport medium (typically fiber optic
cable) connecting each node to a central communications hub site; and
         (c)   Radio transceivers located at the hub site (rather than at each
individual node as is the case for small cells) to process or control the
communications signals transmitted and received through the antennas.
      EQUIPMENT FACILITY. A structure used to contain ancillary equipment for a
WCF, such as cabinets, pedestals and similar devices.
      HEIGHT. The distance measured from the original grade to the highest
point on the WCF, including the antenna(s).
      SMALL CELL FACILITY. A wireless service facility that either meets both
of the following qualifications or is within a stealth design that is
consistent with the design guidelines:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than five
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of no
more than five cubic feet, however, the maximum dimensions of the antenna shall
not exceed 36 inches in height and 16 inches in diameter; and/or
         (b)   Each provider’s equipment enclosures shall be no larger than 17
cubic feet in volume. The following associated equipment may be located outside
of the primary equipment enclosure and, if so located, is not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter; concealment;
telecommunications demarcation box; underground enclosures; back-up power
systems; grounding equipment; power transfer switch; and cut-off switch.
      STEALTH. The ability of freestanding telecommunication towers to blend
into the neighborhood environment at a given location and the ability to
camouflage or conceal the presence of wireless communication facilities when
attached to antenna support structures.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. Any pole, spire, structure or combination
thereof, including supporting lines, cables, wires, braces and mast, designed
and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas,
including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers or monopole towers. A
COMMUNICATION TOWER may include, but not be limited to, radio and television
towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular telephone towers and
personal communication service towers.
      TEMPORARY WCF. A WCF that is placed in service for less than 180 days.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. One or more antenna, tower, base
station, antenna support structure, mechanical and/or electronic equipment,
conduit, cable, fiber, wire and associated structures, enclosures, assemblages,
devices and supporting elements that generate, transmit or produce a signal
used for communication that is proposed by an entity other than the city,
including but not limited to radio/TV/satellite and broadcast towers, telephone
service, including new microwave or cellular towers, personal wireless service
facilities, DAS, small cell facilities and temporary WCF.
   (D)   Siting and co-location criteria.
      (1)   The siting and co-location of all WCFs shall be subject to the
following criteria before consideration will be given to a new site:
         (a)   WCFs shall be located on existing antenna support structures,
such as utility poles, light poles, signs, elevated water tanks, buildings and
other WCFs;
         (b)   WCFs shall co-locate or site share upon existing
telecommunication towers; or
         (c)   WCFs shall consider the use of public property and structures.
      (2)   If an applicant has shown a good faith effort to co-locate but has
found it not to be feasible, a written statement indicating the reasons why co-
location is not feasible shall be provided.
   (E)   Application requirements. The following information is required prior
to the siting of all WCFs. Installing antenna(s) on existing WCFs and amateur
radio operator towers are exempt from these requirements.
      (1)   In districts designated as AG, REC, C-1, C-2, C-2DT, H or I
districts, an application shall be accompanied by a scaled drawing or aerial
map, showing the subject property and all properties within one and one-half
times the height of the proposed tower and the location of all existing
buildings and structures, and the exact location of the tower and equipment
facility. A WCF on an existing antenna support structure shall be considered
through administrative review by the Planning and Zoning Commission. A proposed
telecommunication tower shall be considered through the conditional use permit
process.
      (2)   In districts designated as R-1, R-2, R-2MH, R-3, R-3MH and MHP
districts, a WCF on an existing antenna support structure shall be considered
through administrative review by the Planning and Zoning Commission. A proposed
telecommunication tower shall be considered through the conditional use permit
process. An application shall be accompanied by a scaled drawing or aerial map
showing the subject property and all properties within three times the height
of the proposed tower and the location of all existing buildings and structures
and the exact location of the tower and equipment facility.
      (3)   If applicable, an application must also include written
documentation under a licensed engineer’s stamp verifying the need for a guyed-
lattice tower when no other means of antenna support structure is available due
to technical engineering constraints.
      (4)   Procedure for administrative review for WCFs in the public right-
of-way:
         (a)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall issue a written
decision concerning the application within 60 days of submission of the initial
application unless:
            1.   The city notified the applicant that its application was
incomplete within 30 days of filing, and if so, the remaining time from the 60-
day total review time is suspended until the applicant provides the missing
information;
            2.   Extension of time is agreed to by the applicant; or
            3.   Additional time required by processes of the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA), the State Historic Preservation Office or the Historic
Preservation Commission, if applicable to the proposed installation, and to the
extent that the same are beyond the control of the city. The running of the
aforementioned 60-day period shall not otherwise be tolled.
         (b)   Failure to issue a written decision within 60 days shall
constitute an approval of the application.
         (c)   The provisions of this division (E) do not apply to applications
for facilities outside of the public rights-of-way in the municipality.
   (F)   Development standards.
      (1)   Location and setback.
         (a)   Antenna. Antenna(s) that are attached to support structures are
exempt from the setback requirements in the district in which they are located.
The antenna(s) may extend up to five feet horizontally beyond the edge of the
support structure provided it does not encroach over the property line.
         (b)   Telecommunication towers. A telecommunication tower shall meet
the setback requirements for the district in which it is located. A
telecommunication tower shall also be constructed on a lot so that it is as far
away as possible from existing off-site buildings, and in no event nearer to
any residential building than a distance of 100% of the height of the tower. A
telecommunications tower shall not be closer to a residential district boundary
line than 100% of its height. Where telecommunication towers are required to
meet FAA paint and/or lighting regulations, the distance between them shall not
be less than one-half mile.
         (c)   Equipment facilities. All equipment facilities shall meet the
setback requirements for the district in which they are located.
         (d)   Amateur radio operator tower. All amateur radio operator towers
shall meet the setback requirements for the district in which they are located.
      (2)   Height.
         (a)   Antenna(s) attached to antenna support structures may not add
more than 20 feet in height to the existing building or structure to which it
is attached. In R-1, R-2, R-2MH, R-3, R-3MH and MHP Districts, the maximum
height including the antenna support structure and the antenna(s) is 100 feet.
         (b)   Telecommunication towers:
            1.   In the I and AG Districts, the tower structure shall not
exceed the maximum height of 200 feet;
            2.   In the REC, C-1, C-2, C-2DT and H Districts, the maximum
height is 100 feet; and
            3.   In the R-1, R-2, R-2MH, R-3, R-3MH and MHP Districts, the
maximum height shall be determined through the conditional use permit process.
         (c)   Amateur radio operator towers shall have a maximum height of 35
feet. Exceptions: antennas co-located upon existing structures. In addition,
for every one additional foot in from the side or rear building setback lines,
one additional foot in height may be added, to a maximum height of 60 feet.
         (d)   Broadcast towers may be erected to a height as approved by the
Board of Adjustment upon conditional use review.
      (3)   Screening and landscaping. Telecommunication tower sites and
equipment facilities shall be screened when there exists a clear view from
adjacent residential uses. A fence, wall, berm, shrubbery or tree plantings
shall be installed to a sufficient height along the perimeter or in appropriate
areas in order to reduce the visual impact of the tower base and buildings.
Existing mature tree growth and natural landforms shall be preserved to the
maximum extent possible and may be a sufficient buffer. If a chain-link fence
is erected, the fence shall have wood or plastic slats woven into the fence,
open mesh windscreens installed or additional shrubbery or tree plantings
located outside the fence.
      (4)   Illumination. Towers shall not be artificially lighted unless
required by the FAA or other governing authority. Security or safety lighting
for equipment facilities is permitted.
      (5)   Design. Towers shall be of a neutral color unless otherwise
required by the FAA. Antenna(s) installed on support structures shall be of a
neutral color that is the same as or compatible with the support structure.
Buildings and other structures shall be made of exterior materials and colors
that will blend the facilities to the natural setting and built environment. In
residential districts, aesthetics is a high priority. Therefore, only a
monopole design shall be permitted unless otherwise approved during the
administrative review or conditional use process. In addition, incorporating
stealth design into the tower and equipment facilities whenever possible will
be an important factor in the review of any conditional use permit application.
      (6)   Maintenance. Telecommunication towers, antenna support structures
and WCFs shall be maintained in compliance with Electronic Industries
Association/Telecommunications Industries Association Standard (EIA/TIA) 222
Revision G Standard entitled “Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and
Antenna Supporting Structures” as it may be updated or amended.
      (7)   Abandonment. Any wireless communication facility that is no longer
in use shall be reported to the city by the facility owner. If a WCF is not
operated for a continuous period of 12 months, it shall be considered abandoned
and the owner shall remove the WCF within six months after the expiration of
the 12-month period.
      (8)   Development standards for small cell facilities and distributed
antenna systems (DAS).
         (a)   The applicant shall demonstrate that through location,
construction or stealthing, the proposed facility or network of facilities will
have minimum visual impact upon the appearance of adjacent properties and the
views from adjacent residential neighborhoods and the pedestrian environment,
while retaining viable opportunities for future collocation. Justification must
be provided by the applicant for any noncompliance with the design guidelines
in division (F)(5) above;
         (b)   Documentation of the number of other entities desiring to use
the telecommunications facility that can be accommodated within the design
parameters of the telecommunications facility as proposed;
         (c)   A statement indicating the owner’s commitment to allow feasible
shared use of the facility within its design capacity for collocation;
         (d)   The proposed site plan and design plans meet or exceed all
applicable standards, including without limitation those of the FAA, Federal
Communications Commission (FCC), American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
and Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) standards for
power density levels and structural integrity, American Concrete Institute
(ACI), American Standards Testing and Materials Institute (ASTM), the National
Electrical Code and the American Steel Institute. The telecommunications
facility must comply with Building Codes and other federal, state and local
regulations, applicant must also comply with applicable historic preservation
ordinances of the city; and
         (e)   With respect to telecommunication facilities within public
rights-of-way:
            1.   Support structures and above-ground transmission equipment
shall be located outside the pedestrian portion of any sidewalk;
            2.   New telecommunication facility support structures may not be
erected to a height greater than the height of surrounding utility poles or
street lights, whichever is greater. If no utility poles are present, the total
height shall be built to a maximum height of 35 feet, including antennas,
lightning rods or other extensions. All new proposed structures, or a stealth
telecommunications support structure replacing an existing support structure or
alternative structure, within the right-of-way shall be designed for a minimum
of two wireless communication facility providers; and
            3.   Telecommunication facilities shall be constructed consistent
with the design requirements of the community development department, and,
where applicable, the Historic Preservation Commission.
(Prior Code, § 16.21.23) (Ord. 895, passed - -)
§ 154.396 CANNABIS DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   Maximum number of cannabis dispensaries.
      (1)   In the development and execution of these regulations, it is
recognized that there are some uses which because of their very nature, are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances
thereby having a potential deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas. Special
regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these adverse effects will
not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood.
The primary control or regulation is for the purpose of preventing a
concentration of these uses in any one area.
      (2)   The city shall allow up to two cannabis dispensaries provided the
time, place, and manner of the dispensaries comply with this section.
   (B)   Required separation distances.
      (1)   A cannabis dispensary shall be located not less than 1,000 feet
from a public or private school property existing before the date of the
cannabis dispensary application;
      (2)   Prescribed separation distances from certain existing uses are to
be measured from the lot line of the property where the dispensary is proposed.
   (C)   Other locational requirements.
      (1)   Permanent or temporary dispensaries are prohibited in all other
zoning districts and are not eligible for a home occupation use.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate a dispensary in a building which
contains a residence or a mixed-use building with commercial and residential
uses.
   (D)   Controlled access. No cannabis establishment shall share premises with
or permit access directly from another medical cannabis establishment, business
that sells alcohol or tobacco, or, if allowed by law, other cannabis
establishment.
   (E)   Hours of operation.
      (1)   Cannabis dispensaries are allowed to be open between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. local time, on Monday through Saturday.
      (2)   Cannabis dispensaries are not allowed to be open on Sundays, New
Year's Day, Martin Luther King Day, Presidents' Day, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Native American Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas Day, and all other holidays as designated by City Council.
   (F)   Documentation of state licensure. No cannabis dispensary shall
acquire, possess, store, deliver transfer, transport, supply or dispense
cannabis, cannabis products, paraphernalia without providing documentation of
licensure from the State of South Dakota.
   (G)   The zoning official is authorized to issue permits (building/use) for
cannabis dispensaries subject to following:
      (1)   Submission of a site plan containing the following:
         (a)   Any information required for applicable building permit;
         (b)   Ingress and egress plan;
         (c)   Parking plan;
         (d)   Lighting plan (including security lighting);
         (e)   Screening/security fencing plan;
         (f)   Refuse plan;
         (g)   Hours of operation; and
         (h)   Any other information as lawfully may be required by the zoning
official to determine compliance with this section.
      (2)   Documentation of ability to meet setback/separation requirements.
      (3)   Documentation of state licensure.
   (H)   All cannabis establishments are required to be constructed in
conformance with the 2021 Edition of the International Building Code and
International Fire Code.
(Ord. 1014, passed 11-1-2021)
SIGNS
§ 154.410 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Signs shall conform to state law when along the state and federal
primary highway system.
   (B)   All signs shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition and
in the event they shall become illegible or their use shall cease, they shall
be removed promptly and the area occupied restored to a condition free of
refuse and debris within 15 days or be subject to a penalty as set forth in §
154.999.
   (C)   Signs bearing only property numbers, mailbox numbers, names of
occupants of premises or other identification of premises not having commercial
connotations shall not exceed two square feet in area.
   (D)   Flags and insignia of any government are allowed except when displayed
in connection with commercial promotion.
   (E)   Legal notices posted in required place(s) shall be removed within
seven days of expiration.
   (F)   Real estate signs shall be removed within 30 days of the rental/lease
or sale closing of the dwelling unit or units.
   (G)   Projecting signs attached to a building shall not project above the
height of the building, shall not extend more than six feet from the face of
the building, and shall not extend closer than one foot from the current right-
of-way line.
   (H)   Mounted wall signs placed against the exterior walls of buildings
shall not extend more than 12 inches beyond the surface of the building’s wall
and shall not exceed 20 feet in height above the mean centerline street grade
nor shall such sign break the plane of the roofline.
   (I)   Projecting signs fastened to or suspended from structures:
      (1)   Shall not extend more than six feet into any required yard;
      (2)   Shall not extend more than six feet into any public right-of-way;
      (3)   Shall not be less than ten feet from all side lot lines;
      (4)   Shall not exceed a height of 20 feet above the mean centerline
street grade;
      (5)   Shall be a minimum of eight feet above the mean centerline street
grade; and
      (6)   Shall be a minimum of 15 feet above the mean centerline of a
driveway or alley.
   (J)   Roof signs shall not exceed ten feet in height above the roof; shall
meet all the yard and height requirements for the district in which it is
located; and shall not exceed 300 square feet on all sides for any one
premises.
   (K)   The city reserves the right to expand rights-of-way. In such a case,
the removal, modification or replacement of a sign that intrudes upon the
right-of-way clear zone, as defined in division (G) above, shall be the
responsibility of the affected business.
   (L)   Where necessary, the city reserves the right to combine sign
terminology with regard to regulations and enforcement. More restrictive
requirements shall supercede the inferior language.
(Prior Code, § 16.22.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.411 SIGN AS OBSTRUCTION OR DECEPTION.
   Signs shall not resemble, imitate or approximate the shape, size, form or
color of railroad or traffic signs, signals or devices. Signs shall not
obstruct or interfere with the effectiveness of railroad or traffic signs,
signals or devices. No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to
prevent free ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape. No sign
shall be placed so as to obstruct or interfere with traffic visibility.
(Prior Code, § 16.22.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.412 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs lawfully existing prior to March 4, 2002 may be continued
although the use, size or location does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   However, it shall be deemed a nonconforming use or structure as
described in §§
154.455 through
154.460.
(Prior Code, § 16.22.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
PARKING
§ 154.425 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this district is to provide for adequate off-street
parking to lessen congestion of vehicular traffic on public streets and to
insure the safety of pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   In all districts, for every use, at the time any building or structure
is erected, enlarged or increased in capacity, or at the time any other use is
established, off-street parking shall be constructed or established in
accordance with the provisions specified herein.
   (C)   (1)   Off-street spaces shall be adjacent or abutting to the structure
it serves and shall meet the requirements described in this subchapter.
      (2)   Each parking space shall be a minimum of 200 square feet and each
lot shall include vehicular access to a street or alley.
      (3)   Off-street parking spaces shall not impede upon any maneuvering
lane.
      (4)   All off-street parking areas and spaces shall be designed and
constructed to allow ingress and egress to a public street at all times.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.426 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING; RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Dwelling, single-family: two spaces;
   (B)   Dwelling, two-family: two spaces;
   (C)   Multiple dwellings: one and one-half spaces per dwelling unit in
building;
   (D)   Hotels, rooming or lodging houses: one space for each two sleeping
rooms;
   (E)   Motels: one space for each sleeping room; and
   (F)   Fraternity or sorority houses: one space for each four beds.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.427 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING; GATHERING FACILITY.
   (A)   Churches: one space for each four seats in principal assembly area;
   (B)   Schools:
      (1)   Non-elementary: three spaces for each classroom and office or one
space for each eight seats in auditorium, whichever is greater; and
      (2)   Elementary: one space for each classroom or one space for each ten
seats in auditorium, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Parks, stadiums and theaters: one space for each four seats in
grandstand or stadium; eight spaces per acre if a family picnic area; 20 spaces
per acre if a group picnic area; none required for playgrounds or playfields;
   (D)   Funeral homes: one space for each four seats in the parlor area;
   (E)   Dance and assembly halls without fixed seats: one space for each 50
square feet of floor area;
   (F)   Bowling alleys: five spaces for each bowling lane; and
   (G)   Restaurants, bars and nightclubs: one space for each four seats.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.428 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING; MEDICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Hospitals: one space for each four licensed beds;
   (B)   Clinics: one space for each 100 square feet of floor area;
   (C)   Long-term care, assisted living, nursing, rest and convalescent homes:
one space for each eight beds, plus one space for each three employees, plus
one space for resident staff member; and
   (D)   Congregate, residential care facility: one space for each one bed.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.429 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING; MANUFACTURING.
   One space for each two employees (maximum on duty for any shift), plus space
to accommodate all trucks or other vehicles used in connection therewith,
whichever is greater.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.430 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING; GOVERNMENTAL AND PUBLIC.
   Public use buildings: three spaces plus one additional space for each 400
square feet of floor area in excess of 1,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.431 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING; RETAIL SALES.
   (A)   Automobile sales and service: one space for each 300 square feet of
sales floor area;
   (B)   Retail stores, shops or personal service establishments, except as
otherwise specified herein: one space for each 200 square feet of gross floor
area; and
   (C)   Furniture and appliance stores, household equipment or furniture
repair shops: two spaces plus one additional space for each 300 square feet of
gross floor area in excess of 1,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.432 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING; WAREHOUSING.
   (A)   One space for each two employees, but no case less than one space for
each 1,000 square feet of floor space; and
   (B)   One space located directly in front of each unit door for self-storage
warehouse.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.433 COMPUTATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   If the use of any building, structure or premises is not specifically
mentioned herein, the Planning Commission may apply the parking space
requirements for a similar use which is mentioned.
   (B)   Where fractional spaces occur, the parking spaces required shall be
construed to be the nearest whole number.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a building or use constructed or established after
March 4, 2002 is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number
of dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise to create a need for an
increase of 10% or more in the number of existing parking spaces, such spaces
shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change.
      (2)   Whenever a building or use existing prior to March 4, 2002 is
enlarged to the extent of 50% or more in floor area or in the area used, said
building or use shall then and thereafter comply with the parking requirements
set forth herein.
   (D)   In the case of mixed or joint uses, the parking spaces required shall
equal the sum of the requirements for the various uses are computed separately.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.09) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.434 LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   All parking spaces required herein shall be located on the same lot
with the building or use served, except that where an increase in the number of
spaces is required by a change or enlargement of use or where such spaces are
provided collectively or used jointly by two or more nonresidential or
institutional buildings or establishments, the required spaces may be located
and maintained not to exceed 300 feet from the buildings.
   (B)   Off-street parking spaces may be located within the required front
yard of any C and I District, but no off-street parking shall be permitted in
the required front yard of any R District except upon a driveway providing
access to a garage, carport or parking area for a dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.10) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.435 SHARED PARKING.
   Up to 50% of the parking spaces required for a theater, public auditorium,
bowling alley, dance hall, nightclub or café, and up to 100% of the parking
spaces required for a church or school auditorium may be provided and used
jointly by banks, offices, retail stores, repair shops, service establishments
and similar uses which are not normally open in the evenings or on weekends;
provided, however, that a written joint parking agreement is properly executed
and filed as specified in §
154.436.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.11) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.436 JOINT PARKING AGREEMENT.
   In any case where the required parking spaces are not located on the same
lot with the building or use served, or where such spaces are collectively or
jointly provided and used, a legally binding written agreement assuring their
retention as a parking area shall be properly drawn and executed by the parties
concerned and filed with the application for a zoning compliance permit.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.12) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.437 SURFACES OF OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   All required off-street parking areas, except those in I
Districts, including any commercial parking lot of more than five spaces, shall
be surfaced with an asphalt, concrete or similar surface, or provide a durable
and dustless surface as approved by the Public Works Director.
      (2)   They shall be graded and drained to dispose of all surface water
accumulation within the area, and shall be arranged and marked to provide for
orderly and safe loading, unloading, parking and storage of self-propelled
vehicles.
   (B)    Existing residential district off-street parking spaces may
alternatively be surfaced with not less than four inches of crushed rock,
gravel or similar substance which must be maintained to be kept free of weeds
or other vegetation which obscures the view of such surface. In all cases the
parking surface must be at least equal to the outside dimensions of a vehicle
which it serves, except: (i) when a ribbon driveway is in use wherein the
concrete is placed for the two wheel tracks with a grass strip between the
tracks; or (ii) in a rear yard, the vehicle may be parked on parking pads of an
approved surface that are a minimum of two feet by two feet under each wheel or
supporting structure of the vehicle; and in either case, the area under the
vehicle must be maintained to keep it free of weeds and to maintain the height
of the grass at not more than six inches pursuant to §
95.03. A violation of this division (B) shall be subject to enforcement as set
forth in the administrative citation provisions of this code, §§
150.090 et seq. The Code Enforcement Officer shall give notice to the owner or
person in charge of any property that is not in compliance, by certified mail,
advising them of the violation. If the violation is not corrected within 20
days of the date of the notice, the Code Enforcement Officer shall be
authorized to issue an administrative citation to the owner or person in charge
of the property.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.13) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 872,
passed - -; Ord. 986, passed 1-4-2021; Ord. 1020, passed 2-22-2022)
§ 154.438 LIGHTING OF OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be
arranged to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in any R District.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.14) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.439 SETBACK OF OFF-STREET PARKING.
   No part of any parking space shall be closer than five feet to any
established street right-of-way line. In case the parking lot adjoins an R
District, it shall be setback at least five feet from the R District boundary
and shall be effectively screened.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.15) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.440 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES.
   (A)   For every building or part thereof hereafter erected, having a gross
floor area of 10,000 square feet or more, which is to be occupied by
manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods display, retail store, wholesale
store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or other uses
similarly requiring the receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or
merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on the same lot with such
building, at least one off-street loading space plus one additional loading
space for each additional 20,000 square feet , or major fraction thereof, of
gross floor area.
   (B)   Each loading space shall be not less than 12 feet in width and 40 feet
in length.
   (C)   Such space may occupy all or any part of any required yard or open
space, except where adjoining a residential district; it shall be setback five
feet and be effectively screen-planted.
(Prior Code, § 16.23.16) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 154.455 INTENT.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that
may later be adopted, there exists lots, structures, uses of land and
structures, and characteristics of use which were lawful before this chapter
was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted
under the terms of this chapter or future amendment.
   (B)   It is the intent to permit these nonconformities to continue until
they are removed. Further, nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon,
expanded, extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other prohibited
structures or uses elsewhere in the same district.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses are declared to be incompatible with permitted uses
in the districts involved. A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming
use of land, or a nonconforming use of structure and land in combination shall
not be extended or enlarged after March 4, 2002 by attachment on a building or
premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by
the addition of other uses, of a nature which would be prohibited generally in
the district involved.
   (D)   (1)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed
to require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any
building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to March 4, 2002
and upon which actual construction has been carried on diligently.
      (2)   ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner.
      (3)   Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing building
has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation or
demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided that
work shall be carried on diligently.
   (E)   To further avoid under hardship, any accessory use or structure that
exists due to the dilapidation and resulting demolition of any primary use may
continue with the same restrictions identified for other nonconforming
properties.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.456 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD, SFD.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and its customary accessory buildings may be erected on
any single lot of record prior to March 4, 2002, not withstanding limitations
imposed by other provisions of this chapter. Such lots must be in separate
ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership.
This provision shall apply even though such lots fail to meet requirements for
area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district, provided
that yard dimensions and requirements other than those applying to area or
width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in
which such lot is located.
   (B)   Variance of other yard requirements shall be obtained in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.457 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND (OR LAND WITH MINOR STRUCTURES ONLY).
   Where prior to March 4, 2002 lawful use of land exists, which would not be
permitted by the regulations imposed by this chapter, and where such use
involves no individual structure with a replacement cost exceeding $1,000, the
use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
   (A)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied prior to March 4, 2002 or
amendment of this chapter;
   (B)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part, to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use prior to
March 4, 2002 or an amendment of this chapter;
   (C)   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases, for any reason, for a
period of more than one year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located; and
   (D)   No additional structure, failing to conform to the requirements of
this chapter, shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of
land.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.458 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists prior to March 4, 2002 or an amendment of
this chapter, that could not be built under the terms of this chapter by reason
of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot
or other requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued
so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way,
which increases its nonconformity, but any structure, or portion thereof, may
be altered to decrease its nonconformity.
   (B)   Should such nonconforming structure, or nonconforming portion of
structure, be destroyed by any means, to an extent of more than 50% of its
replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, but if less than 50%
damaged above the foundation, it may be restored, reconstructed or used as
before provided that it be started within one year of such happening and be
completed within two years.
   (C)   Should such structure be moved for any reason or distance, it shall
thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located
after it is moved.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.459 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES OR OF STRUCTURES AND PREMISES IN
COMBINATION.
   If the nonconforming use involving individual structures with a replacement
cost of $1,000 or more, or of structure and premises in combination, exists
prior to March 4, 2002 or an amendment of this chapter that would not be
allowed in the district under the terms of this chapter, the nonconforming use
may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions.
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any part of a
building which was manifestly arranged or designed for such use prior to March
4, 2002 or an amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
   (C)   (1)   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of
a structure or structure and premises may, as a conditional use, be changed to
another nonconforming use provided that the Board of Adjustment, either by
general rule or by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the
proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than
the existing nonconforming use.
      (2)   In permitting such change, the Board of Adjustment may require
appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superceded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter
be resumed.
   (E)   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for a period of more than one year
(except when government action impedes access to the premises), the structure,
or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except
in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (F)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
(Prior Code, § 16.24.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.460 USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS ARE CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any use, which is permitted as a conditional use in a district, under
the terms of this chapter, shall be deemed a conforming use in such district
without further action.
   (B)   A nonconforming use can never be allowed in a defined district without
a change in the district definition or boundaries.
 
Permitted Principal Uses Conditional Uses            Nonconforming
                         Allowed within defined      Never allowed in defined
Allowed within defined   district after Board grants district without change in
district                 permission                  district definitions or
                                                     boundaries
 
(Prior Code, § 16.24.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
VARIANCES
§ 154.475 VARIANCE.
   A VARIANCE is a relaxation of the terms of this chapter by the Board of
Adjustment where the literal enforcement of this chapter would deny to the
property enjoyed as a right by other property owners within the same zoning
district. Variances shall be limited to height, bulk and yard requirements.
(Prior Code, § 16.25.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.476 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   All applications for variances must be signed or approved in writing
by the owner of record. In the event the owner of record has a binding purchase
agreement contingent on the approval of a variance, the potential purchaser may
submit and sign all documents required for application.
   (B)   A written application for a variance shall demonstrate that:
      (1)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures or buildings, in the same district;
      (2)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter; and
      (3)   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and   that granting the variance requested will not
confer on the applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to
other lands, structure or buildings in the same district.
   (C)   All applications shall be accompanied by a site plan. The site plan
shall be drawn to scale and indicate the following:
      (1)   The actual dimensions, shape and property lines of the lot to be
built upon including adjacent property and proximity to roads;
      (2)   A north arrow;
      (3)   The exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already
existing, if any, and the location, dimensions and square footage of the
proposed building(s) or alteration:
      (4)   Location and dimensions of all easements and rights-of-way;
      (5)   General utility, water and sewer plan with proximity and proposed
connection to municipal utilities;
      (6)   Site drainage plan and development impact on culverts and the like;
and
      (7)   Yard dimensions.
   (D)   Variance applications shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator.
The variance application shall not be accepted unless and until all documents
required for application for said request have been satisfactorily completed
and all required fees have been paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 16.25.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.477 PLANNING COMMISSION VARIANCE PROCESS.
   The Planning Commission shall review requests for variances from this
chapter in instances where strict enforcement would cause unnecessary hardship,
and to recommend granting of such variances only in accordance with this
chapter. The Planning Commission shall review all variance applications at an
official meeting of the Commission. The Commission shall discuss each
application and recommend an action. The recommendation should be in the form
of a motion clearly stating the Commission’s recommended action. The Commission
shall forward its recommendation to the City Council, who will set the Board of
Adjustment meeting at which the application is being considered.
(Prior Code, § 16.25.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.478 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT VARIANCE PROCESS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to hear requests for variances
from this chapter in instances where strict enforcement would cause unnecessary
hardship, and to grant such variances only when the following provisions apply.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall not grant a variance from the terms of
this chapter unless and until a written application for a variance per §
154.476 is submitted to the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The Planning Commission has reviewed the application pursuant to §
154.475.
   (C)   Notice of public hearing was given at least ten days in advance by
publication in a legal newspaper of the municipality.
   (D)   Written notice of the public hearing was sent to the applicant and all
owners of real property lying within 150 feet of the property on which the
variance is pending. The notice shall be given to each owner of record by
depositing such notice in the United States Post Office not less than ten days
prior to the hearing date.
   (E)   A notification sign shall be posted on the property upon which action
is pending at least seven days prior to the hearing date. Such signs shall be
placed along all along the property’s street frontage so as to be visible from
the street. If a property does not have a street frontage, then such signs
shall be placed upon the closest available right-of-way and upon the property.
Said signs shall be not less than 187 square inches in size. It shall be
unlawful for any person to remove, mutilate, destroy or change such posted
notice prior to such hearings.
   (F)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board of Adjustment unless
it finds that the strict application of the chapter would produce undue
hardship; such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the same
zoning district and the same vicinity; the authorization of such variance will
not be of substantial detriment to adjacent property and the character of the
district will not be changed by the grant of the variance; and the granting of
such variance is based upon reasons of demonstrable and exceptional hardship as
distinguished from variations for purposes of convenience, profit and caprice.
   (G)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board of Adjustment finds
that the condition or situation of the property or the intended use of the
property concerned, or the intended use of the property is not of so general or
recurring in nature that it is reasonably practicable to formulation a general
regulation to be adopted as an amendment of this chapter.
   (H)   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in
the same district, and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures
or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of
a variance.
   (I)   Any party may appear in person for by agent or by attorney; the Board
of Adjustment shall make findings that the requirements of this section have
been met by the applicant for a variance; the Board shall further make a
finding that the reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of
the variance, and the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible
the reasonable use of the land, building or structure. The Board of Adjustment
shall further make a finding that the granting of the variance will be in
harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter, and will not be
injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
   (J)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a variance
to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in the district
involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of
this chapter in said district.
(Prior Code, § 16.25.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.479 TERMINATION, REVOCATION AND REAPPLICATION.
   (A)   Unless a different termination date is prescribed, the variance shall
terminate one year from the date of approval, unless actual construction,
alteration or commencement of activities has begun under valid permits within
such period, or is not pursued diligently to completion. However, such period
may be extended upon written request filed with the Zoning Administrator at any
time before the period has expired, for a period not exceeding one additional
year.
   (B)   In the event of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
the Board of Adjustment may, after notice and hearing, revoke any variance. Any
revocation hearing shall comply with the procedures prescribed in §
154.525 of this chapter.
   (C)   No reapplication for the same or a similar variance may be made within
one year from the date of previous denial, unless such denial was made without
prejudice.
(Prior Code, § 16.25.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 154.490 CONDITIONAL USE.
   A CONDITIONAL USE is a use that would not be appropriate, generally or
without restriction, throughout the zoning district, but which, if controlled
as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the
public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, convenience, appearance,
prosperity or general welfare. Such uses may be permitted in said zoning
district as conditional uses, if specific provision for such conditional use is
made in this chapter. The term conditional use shall be synonymous with special
exception, but shall not include the term variance.
(Prior Code, § 16.26.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.491 APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE.
   (A)   All applications for conditional uses must be signed or approved in
writing by the owner of record. In the event the owner of record has a binding
purchase agreement contingent on the approval of a conditional use, the
potential purchaser may submit and sign all documents required for application.
   (B)   (1)   A written application for a conditional use shall be submitted
indicating the section of this chapter under which the conditional use is
submitted and stating the grounds on which it is requested. All applications
shall be accompanied by a site plan.
      (2)   The site plan shall be drawn to scale and indicate the following:
         (a)   The actual dimensions, shape and property lines of the lot to be
built upon including adjacent property and proximity to roads;
         (b)   A north arrow;
         (c)   The exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already
existing, if any, and the location, dimensions and square footage of the
proposed building(s) or alteration:
         (d)   Location and dimensions of all easements and rights-of-way;
         (e)   General utility, water and sewer plan with proximity and
proposed connection to municipal utilities;
         (f)   Site drainage plan and development impact on culverts and the
like; and
         (g)   Yard dimensions.
   (C)   Conditional use applications shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator. The application shall not be accepted unless and until all
documents required for application for said request have been satisfactorily
completed and all required fees have been paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 16.26.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.492 PLANNING COMMISSION CONDITIONAL USE PROCESS.
   The Planning Commission shall hear, in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, requests for conditional uses only when the following provisions
are met:
   (A)   A written application for a conditional use per §
154.491 indicating the section of this chapter under which the conditional use
is sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested is submitted to the
Zoning Administrator;
   (B)   Notice of public hearing is given at least ten days in advance by
publication in the legal newspaper of the municipality;
   (C)   Written notice of the public hearing is sent to the applicant and all
owners of real property lying within 150 feet of the property on which the
conditional use is pending. The notice shall be given to each owner of record
by depositing such notice in the United States Post Office not less than ten
days prior to the hearing date;
   (D)   A notification sign is posted on the property upon which action is
pending at least seven days prior to the hearing date. Such signs shall be
placed along the property’s street frontage so as to be visible from the
street. If a property does not have a street frontage, then such signs shall be
placed upon the closest available right-of-way and upon the property. Said
signs shall be not less than 187 square inches in size. It shall be unlawful
for any person to remove, mutilate, destroy or change such posted notice prior
to such hearings;
   (E)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person, or
by agent or attorney;
   (F)   The Commission shall make a finding that it is empowered under the
section of this chapter described in the application to recommend granting the
conditional use, granting with conditions or denying the conditional use and
that the granting of the conditional use will not adversely affect the public
interest; and
   (G)   Before any conditional use recommendation, the Commission shall make
written findings certifying compliance with the specific rules governing
individual conditional uses and that satisfactory provision and arrangement has
been made concerning the following, where applicable:
      (1)   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures thereon with
particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe;
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading areas where required; with
particular attention to the items in division (G)(1) above and the economic,
noise, glare, odor or other effects of the conditional use on adjoining
properties and properties generally in the district;
      (3)   Refuse and service areas, with particular reference to divisions
(G)(1) and (G)(2) above;
      (4)   Utilities, with reference to locations, availability and
compatibility;
      (5)   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions and
character;
      (6)   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district;
      (7)   Required yards and other open spaces; and
      (8)   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other property
in the district.
   (H)   The recommendation should be in the form of a motion clearly stating
the Commission’s recommended action. The Commission shall forward its
recommendation to the City Council, who will set the Board of Adjustment
meeting at which the application is being considered.
(Prior Code, § 16.26.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.493 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT CONDITIONAL USE PROCESS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to hear and decide, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, requests for conditional uses
or for decisions upon other special questions upon which the Board of
Adjustment is authorized by this chapter to pass; to decide such questions as
are involved in determining whether conditional uses should be granted; and to
grant conditional uses with such conditions and safeguards as are appropriate
under this chapter, or to deny conditional uses when not in harmony with the
purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (B)   A conditional use shall not be granted by the Board unless and until:
      (1)   A written application, pursuant to §
154.491 for a conditional use is submitted, indicating the section of this
chapter under which the conditional use is sought and stating the grounds on
which it is requested;
      (2)   The Planning Commission has reviewed the application, pursuant to §
154.492;
      (3)   Notice of public hearing shall be given at least ten days in
advance by publication in a legal newspaper of the municipality;
      (4)   Written notice of the public hearing shall be sent to the applicant
and all owners of real property lying within 150 feet of the property on which
the conditional use is pending. The notice shall be given to each owner of
record by depositing such notice in the United States Post Office not less than
ten days prior to the hearing date;
      (5)   A notification sign shall be posted on the property upon which
action is pending at least seven days prior to the hearing date. Such signs
shall be placed along all along the property’s street frontage so as to be
visible from the street. If a property does not have a street frontage, then
such signs shall be placed upon the closest available right-of-way and upon the
property. Said signs shall be not less than 187 square inches in size. It shall
be unlawful for any person to remove, mutilate, destroy or change such posted
notice prior to such hearings;
      (6)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person,
or by agent or attorney;
      (7)   The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that it is empowered
under the section of this chapter described in the application to grant the
conditional use, grant with conditions or deny the conditional use, and that
the granting of the conditional use will not adversely affect the public
interest; and
      (8)   Before any conditional use is granted, the Board of Adjustment
shall make written findings certifying compliance with the specific rules
governing individual conditional uses and that satisfactory provision and
arrangement has been made concerning the following, where applicable:
         (a)   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures thereon
with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe;
         (b)   Off-street parking and loading areas where required; with
particular attention to the items in division (B)(8)(a) above and the economic,
noise, glare, odor or other effects of the conditional use on adjoining
properties and properties generally in the district;
         (c)   Refuse and service areas, with particular reference to divisions
(B)(8)(a) and (B)(8)(b) above;
         (d)   Utilities, with reference to locations, availability and
compatibility;
         (e)   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions and
character;
         (f)   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district;
         (g)   Required yards and other open spaces; and
         (h)   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other
property in the district.
(Prior Code, § 16.26.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.494 TERMINATION, REVOCATION AND REAPPLICATION.
   (A)   Unless a different termination date is prescribed, the conditional use
shall terminate one year from the date of approval, unless actual construction,
alteration or commencement of activities has begun under valid permits within
such period, or is not pursued diligently to completion. However, such period
of time may be extended upon written request filed with the Zoning
Administrator at any time before the period has expired, for a period not
exceeding one additional year.
   (B)   In the event of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
the Board of Adjustment may, after notice and hearing, revoke any conditional
use. Any revocation hearing shall comply with the procedures prescribed in §
154.525 of this chapter.
   (C)   No reapplication for the same or a similar conditional use may be made
within one year from the date of previous denial, unless such denial was made
without prejudice.
(Prior Code, § 16.26.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
AMENDMENTS, REZONING AND ANNEXATION
§ 154.505 AMENDMENTS AND REZONING.
   The provisions set forth in this chapter may, from time to time, be amended,
supplemented, changed or repealed by action of the City Council or when such
amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal is requested through a
petition by 30% of the landowners in the districts requesting a change. An
individual landowner may also petition the city to change the zoning of all or
any part of his or her property provided that such modification or repeal in
each instance be proposed in an ordinance presented to the governing body for
adoption in the same manner and upon the same notice as required for the
adoption of the original ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 16.27.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.506 ANNEXATION AND REZONING PETITIONS.
   (A)   All applications for annexation or rezoning must be signed or approved
in writing by the owner of record. In the event the owner of record has a
binding purchase agreement contingent on the approval of annexation or
rezoning, the potential purchaser may submit and sign all documents required
for petition. The petitioner’s attorney shall prepare the petition.
   (B)   (1)   All petitions shall be accompanied by a site plan.
      (2)   The site plan shall be drawn to scale and indicate the following:
         (a)   The actual dimensions, shape and property lines of the lot to be
built upon including adjacent property and proximity to roads;
         (b)   A north arrow;
         (c)   The exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already
existing, if any, and the location, dimensions and square footage of the
proposed building(s) or alteration:
         (d)   Location and dimensions of all easements and rights-of-way;
         (e)   General utility, water and sewer plan with proximity and
proposed connection to municipal utilities;
         (f)   Site drainage plan and development impact on culverts and the
like; and
         (g)   Yard dimensions.
   (C)   (1)   All petitions shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The petitions shall not be accepted unless and until all documents
required have been satisfactorily completed and all required fees have been
paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 16.27.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.507 PROCESS FOR AMENDMENTS AND REZONING.
   Prior to consideration of amending, supplementing, changing, modifying or
repealing this chapter, annexing or rezoning by the governing body, notice of
public hearings shall be provided as follows.
   (A)   If the proposed changes affect a particular piece of property,
notification signs shall be posted on the property upon which action is pending
at least seven days prior to the hearing date. Such signs shall be placed along
all along the property’s street frontage so as to be visible from the street.
If a property does not have a street frontage, then such signs shall be placed
upon the closest available right-of-way and upon the property. Said signs shall
be not less than 187 square inches in size. It shall be unlawful for any person
to remove, mutilate, destroy or change such posted notice prior to such
hearings;
   (B)   At least ten days before the date of the Planning Commission hearing,
the city shall have published in the legal newspaper of the city, a notice of
the time, place and subject matter of such hearing.
   (C)   If the proposed changes affect a particular piece of property, written
notice of the public hearing shall be sent to the applicant and all owners of
real property lying within 150 feet of the property on which the conditional
use is pending. The notice shall be given to each owner of record by depositing
such notice in the United States Post Office not less than ten days prior to
the hearing date.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing, review the
proposed amendment(s) and make recommendations to the City Council.
   (E)   The city shall provide public notification pursuant to divisions (A)
through (C) above before the date of the City Council hearing.
   (F)   The City Council shall hold the public hearing, review the proposed
amendment(s) and by resolution or ordinance deny or pass the recommendations.
   (G)   If the changes are adopted, the Planning Commission shall prepare a
copy of the amended language or map revisions.
   (H)   Once the copy is prepared, the City Attorney shall review the changes
and forward the changes to the City Finance Officer for publishing.
   (I)   The complete copy of changes must be published once in a legal
newspaper of the city.
   (J)   The changes take effect 20 days after publication.
(Prior Code, § 16.27.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND APPEALS
 § 154.520 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Zoning Administrator or an
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in
any building or upon any premises a violation, the Zoning Administrator or an
authorized representative may enter such building or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the Zoning
Administrator by this chapter, provided that if such building or premises be
occupied, they shall first present proper credentials and request entry; and if
such building or premises be unoccupied, they shall first make an reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the
building or premises and request entry. If such entry is refused, the Zoning
Administrator or an authorized representative shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure entry.
   (B)   When the Zoning Administrator or an authorized representative shall
have first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law
to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care
or control of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper
request is made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the
Zoning Administrator or an authorized representative for the purpose of
inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.28.01) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.521 ENFORCEMENT.
   If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of this
chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify, in writing the person
responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of
illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations or
structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any other action authorized by the chapter to ensure compliance with or to
prevent violation to its provisions. The Zoning Administrator shall report all
actions to the City Council at the next general meeting of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 16.28.02) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.522 CEASE AND DESIST ORDER.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, altered,
repaired, converted or maintained, or any building structure or land is used in
violation of this chapter, the City Attorney, in addition to other remedies,
may institute any proper action or proceed in the name of the city, to prevent
such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain, correct or abate such violations
to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about said premises.
(Prior Code, § 16.28.03) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.523 APPEALS TO BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; RECORD OF APPEALS, HEARING AND STAYS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of interpretation
and enforcement shall be first presented to the Zoning Administrator, then the
Planning Commission, and that such questions shall be presented to the City
Council only on appeal from the decision of the Planning Commission, and that
recourse from the decisions of the City Council shall be to the court of
record.
   (B)   Any decision rendered by the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to
the Board of Adjustment. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal shall have been
filed with it, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would,
in its opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application or
notice to the officer for whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 16.28.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.524 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board
of Adjustment after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with them, that
by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
   (B)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Zoning Adjustment or by
a court of record on application of notice to the officer from whom the appeal
is taken and on due cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 16.28.05) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.525 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT APPEALS PROCESS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision
or determination made by an administrative official or agency based on or made
in the enforcement of any zoning regulation or any regulation relating to the
location or soundness of structures or to interpret any map.
   (B)   An appeal will not be heard until:
      (1)   The applicant or any other person aggrieved by the decision of an
administrative official or agency shall file a written appeal with the Zoning
Administrator within five working days of the decision;
      (2)   The administrative official or agency from which the appeal is
taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken;
      (3)   Notice of the hearing date shall be given at least ten days in
advance by publication in a legal newspaper of the municipality;
      (4)   Written notice shall be sent to the applicant and all owners of
real property lying within 150 feet of the property on which the appeal is
pending, if a particular piece of property is in question. The notice shall be
given to each owner of record by depositing such notice in the United States
Post Office not less than ten days prior to the hearing date;
      (5)   The administrative official or agency shall present his, her or its
decision to the Board of Adjustment for review; and
      (6)   The Board of Adjustment shall uphold, overrule, or amend the
decision of the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment has the powers of a Zoning Administrator on
appeals and reversing decision of the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Board of Adjustment may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement,
decision or determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all
the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   (E)   The concurring vote of two-thirds of the full membership of the Board
of Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of any such officer, or to decide in favor of the applicant on
any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or to effect
any variation in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.28.06) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.526 CEASE AND DESIST ORDER.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, altered,
repaired, converted or maintained, or any building structure or land is used in
violation of this chapter, the City Attorney, in addition to other remedies,
may institute any proper action or proceed in the name of the city, to prevent
such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain, correct or abate such violations
to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about said premises.
(Prior Code, § 16.28.07) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.527 BAD ACTOR LEGISLATION.
   (A)   The City Council may reject an application for any permit filed for a
variance, conditional use or otherwise for the reasons and on the grounds set
forth in SDCL § 1-40-27, as revised and amended. The Council that the applicant
has engaged in the activity identified in the aforesaid statute shall base such
rejection upon a specific finding. The burden on the Council to make the
specific finding provided for herein shall be by a preponderance of the
evidence.
   (B)   For purposes of this section a person shall be deemed an APPLICANT if
they are the owner of the proposed facility; an officer or director of the
owner thereof; or an owner of any interest in any company except a publicly
traded company which is the owner of the proposed facility.
(Prior Code, § 16.28.08) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   It is declared unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
violate any of the terms or provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise
specified in §
154.523. Any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person, who
commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
Violation thereof shall be a Class 2 misdemeanor and may be punishable by a
fine of up to $500 or up to 30 days in jail, or both such fine and jail
sentence, for each and every day that any violator fails to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 16.28.07)
   (B)   No changes, of any nature, shall be made in the official zoning map,
or matter shown thereon, except in conformity with the procedures set forth in
this chapter. Any unauthorized change, of whatever kind, by any person or
persons, shall be considered a violation of this chapter and punishable as
provided under §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 16.03.02)
   (C)   In granting any variance under §
154.478, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and
safeguards in conformity with this chapter. Violation of such conditions and
safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted,
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and punishable under as a Class 2
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 16.25.04)
(Prior Code, § 16.25.04) (Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -; Ord. 987,
passed 1-4-2021)
APPENDIX A: ZONING MAPS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aad9f9acd32abf7731f81e33baecc989267ea6ac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2032.png]
 
(Ord. 737, passed - -; Ord. 800, passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Prior Code Section           Description
246      --          Ch. 3, Art. 1                Golden West telephone
                                                  franchise.
390      --          Ch. 3, Art. 1                Golden West telephone
                                                  franchise.
434      --          Ch. 3, Art. 2                Midcontinent Cable Systems
                                                  Company franchise.
476      --          Ch. 3, Art. 2                Midcontinent Cable Systems
                                                  Company franchise.
572      --          Ch. 3, Art. 2                Midcontinent Cable Systems
                                                  Company franchise.
690      --          Ch. 3, Art. 2                Midcontinent Cable Systems
                                                  Company franchise.
                                                  Golden West telephone
731      --          Ch. 3, Art. 1, Ch. 3, Art. 2 franchise and Midcontinent
                                                  Cable Systems Company
                                                  franchise.
                                                
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Dakota Codified Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH DAKOTA CODIFIED LAWS
SDCL Section Code Section
SDCL Section              Code Section
1-25-2                    33.04
1-27-1.5(8)               150.078
1-27-1.5(22)              150.078
1-40-27                   154.527
6-1-1                     31.04
6-1-2                     31.04
9-1-1                     10.02,
                          10.04
9-8-5                     31.04
9-13-13                   10.04
9-14-1                    32.01—
                          32.03
9-19-1                    10.04
                          10.04,
9-19-16                   35.01,
                          35.02
9-19-17                   10.04
9-21-16.1                 36.002
9-21-31                   36.015
9-23-1                    30.02
9-40-15                   50.01
10-6-137                  36.100
10-6-137(2)               36.100
10-6-137(4)               36.100
10-6-137(5)               36.100
10-6-137(7)               36.100
10-6-137(8)               36.100
10-6-141                  36.100
                          36.031,
                          36.035,
10-45                     36.051,
                          36.054,
                          36.999
10-46                     36.032,
                          36.035
10-52                     36.030,
                          36.033
                          36.052,
10-52A                    36.053,
                          36.050
Chapter 11-4              154.002
Chapter 11-6              154.002
                          33.13,
                          33.19,
11-6-26                   33.20,
                          33.22,
                          33.99
11-6-26.1                 33.19
11-6-27                   153.003
11-6-37                   33.20,
                          33.22
Chapter 19-5              150.097
21-8                      153.999
31-32-3.1                 94.041,
                          94.999
                          91.06,
32-36                     91.09,
                          91.22
                          117.03—
34-20G                    117.05,
                          117.10
34-20G-1                  117.02,
                          154.016
34-43-2                   151.158
34-43-7                   151.158
34A-7-6                   95.20,
                          95.99
34A-7-9                   95.21,
                          95.99
34A-7-10                  95.22
34A-7-11                  95.23
34A-7-12                  95.24
34A-7-15                  95.25
34A-7-16                  95.26
34A-7-17                  95.99
Title 35                  110.01
35-1-1                    36.051
35-1-5.5                  110.22
35-1-9.1 through 35-1-9.3 110.23
35-4-124                  110.22
35-4-125                  110.04
36-4-11                   115.06
45-6                      154.387
50-10                     154.355
57A-3-421                 30.04
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2020 Code
Prior Code     2020 Code
1.01.01        10.01
1.01.02        10.02
1.01.04        10.16
1.01.05        10.99
1.01.06        10.03
1.01.07        10.11
1.01.08        10.14
1.01.09        10.05
1.01.10        10.13
1.01.11        10.13
1.02.01        11.01
2.01.01        35.01
2.01.02        35.02
2.01.03        35.03
2.02.01        31.01
2.02.02        31.02
2.02.03        31.03
2.03.01        32.01
2.03.02        32.02
2.03.03        32.03
2.03.04        32.04
2.03.05        32.05
2.03.06        32.06
2.03.07        32.07
2.03.08        32.08
2.04.01        33.01
2.04.02        33.02
2.04.03        33.03
2.04.04        33.04
2.04.05        33.05
2.04.06        33.06
2.04.07        33.07
2.04.08        33.08
2.04.09        33.09
2.04.10        33.10
2.04.11        33.11
2.04.12        33.12
2.04.13        33.13
2.04.14        33.14
2.04.15        33.15
2.04.16        33.16
2.04.17        33.17
2.04.18        33.18
2.04.19        33.19
2.04.20        33.99
2.04.21        33.20
2.04.22        33.21
2.04.23        33.22
2.05.01        30.15
2.05.02        30.16
2.05.03        30.17
2.05.04        30.18
2.06.01        30.01
2.07.01        36.001
2.07.02        36.002
2.07.03        36.003
2.07.04        36.004
2.08.01        36.030
2.08.02        36.031
2.08.03        36.032
2.08.04        36.033
2.08.05        36.034
2.08.06        36.035
2.08.07        36.999
2.09.01        36.015
2.09.02        36.016
2.10.01        36.050
2.10.02        36.051
2.10.03        36.052
2.10.04        36.053
2.10.05        36.054
2.10.06        36.999
2.11.01        36.065
2.11.02        36.066
2.11.03        36.067
2.11.04        36.068
2.11.05        36.069
2.11.06        36.070
2.11.07        36.071
2.11.08        36.072
2.11.09        36.073
2.12.01        33.35
2.12.02        33.36
2.12.03        33.37
2.12.04        33.38
2.12.05        33.39
2.12.06        33.40
2.12.07        33.41
Ch. 3, Art. 1  TSO I
Ch. 3, Art. 2  TSO I
4.04.03        53.03
4.04.05        53.04
4.04.06        53.05
4.04.07        53.06
4.04.08        53.07
4.04.09        53.08
4.04.10        53.09
4.04.11        53.10
4.04.12        53.99
4.05.01        54.01
4.05.02        54.02
4.05.03        54.03
4.05.04        54.04
4.05.05        54.05
4.05.06        54.06
4.05.07        54.07
4.05.08        54.08
4.05.09        54.09
4.06.01        55.01
4.06.02        55.02
4.06.03        55.03
4.06.04        55.04
4.07.01        60.01
4.07.02        60.02
4.07.03        60.03
4.07.04        60.04
4.07.05        60.05
4.07.06        60.06
4.07.07        60.07
4.07.08        60.08
4.07.09        60.09
4.07.10        60.10
4.07.11        60.11
4.07.12        60.12
4.07.13        60.13
4.07.14        60.14
4.07.14.01     60.15,
               60.99
4.07.15        60.16
4.07.16        60.17
4.07.17        60.18
4.07.18        60.19
4.07.19        60.20
4.07.20        60.21
4.07.21        60.22
4.07.22        60.23
4.07.23        60.24
4.07.24        60.25
4.07.25        60.26
4.07.26        60.99
5.01.01        94.001
5.01.02        94.002
5.01.03        94.003
5.01.04        94.004
5.01.05        94.005
5.01.06        94.006
5.01.07        94.007
5.01.08        94.008
5.01.11        94.009,
               94.999
5.02.01        94.020
5.02.02        94.021
5.02.03        94.022
5.02.04        94.023
5.02.05        94.024,
               94.999
5.02.06        94.026
5.02.07        94.999
5.03.01        94.055
5.03.02        94.056
5.03.03        94.057
5.03.04        94.058
5.03.05        94.059
5.03.06        94.060
5.03.07        94.061
5.03.08        94.062
5.03.09        94.063
5.03.10        94.064,
               94.999
6.01.01        110.01
6.01.02        110.02
6.01.03        110.03
6.01.04        110.04
6.01.06        110.05
6.01.07        110.06
6.01.08        110.07
6.01.09        110.08
6.01.10        110.09
6.01.11        110.10
6.01.12        110.11
6.01.13        110.12
6.01.15        110.13
6.01.16        110.14,
               110.99
6.01.17        110.15
6.01.18        110.16
6.01.19        110.17
6.01.20        110.18
6.01.21        110.19
6.01.22        110.20
6.01.23        110.21
6.01.24        110.22
6.01.25        110.23
6.01.26        110.99
6.02.01        111.01
6.02.02        111.02
6.02.03        111.03
6.02.04        111.04
6.02.05        111.05
6.02.06        111.06
6.02.07        111.07
6.02.08        111.08
6.02.09        111.09
6.02.10        111.10
6.02.11        111.11
6.02.12        111.12
6.02.13        111.13
6.02.14        111.14
6.02.15        111.15
6.02.16        111.16
6.02.17        111.17
6.02.18        111.99
6.03.01        112.01
6.03.02        112.02
6.03.03        112.03
6.03.04        112.04
6.03.05        112.05
6.03.06        112.06
6.03.07        112.07
6.03.08        112.08
6.03.09        112.99
6.04.01        113.01
6.04.02        113.02
6.04.03        113.03
6.04.04        113.04
6.04.05        113.05
6.04.06        113.06
6.04.07        113.07
6.05.01        114.01
6.05.02        114.02
6.05.03        114.03
6.05.04        114.99
6.06.01        115.01
6.06.02        115.02
6.06.03        115.03
6.06.04        115.04
6.06.05        115.05
6.06.06        115.06
6.06.07        115.07,
               115.99
6.06.08        115.08
7.01.01        70.01
7.01.02        70.02
7.01.03        70.03
7.01.04        70.04
7.01.05        70.05
7.01.06        70.06
7.01.07        70.07
7.01.08        70.08
7.01.09        70.09
7.01.10        70.10
7.01.11        70.11
7.01.12        70.12
7.01.13        70.13
7.01.14        70.14
7.01.16        70.15
7.01.17        70.16
7.01.18        70.17
7.01.19        70.18
7.01.20        70.19
7.01.21        70.20
7.01.22        70.21
7.01.23        70.22
7.01.24        70.23
7.01.25        70.24
7.01.26        70.25
7.01.27        70.26
7.01.28        70.27
7.01.29        70.28
               70.29,
7.01.30        70.99,
               Ch. 75, Sch. I
7.02.01        Ch. 75, Sch. II
7.02.02        Ch. 75, Sch. III
7.02.03        Ch. 75, Sch. IV
7.02.04        Ch. 75, Sch. V
7.02.05        Ch. 75, Sch. VI
7.02.06        71.01
7.02.07        71.02
7.03.01        72.01
7.03.02        Ch. 76, Sch. I
7.03.03        Ch. 76, Sch. II
7.03.04        72.02
7.03.05        72.03
7.03.06        72.04
7.03.07        72.05
7.03.08        72.06
7.03.09        72.07
7.03.10        72.08
7.03.11        72.09
7.03.12        Ch. 76, Sch. III
7.03.13        72.10
7.04.01        73.01
7.04.02        73.02
7.04.03        73.03
7.05.01        74.01
7.05.02        74.02
7.05.03        74.03
7.05.04        74.04
7.05.05        74.05
7.05.06        74.99
8.01.01        94.075
8.01.02        94.076
8.01.03        94.077
8.01.04        94.078
8.01.05        94.079
8.01.06        94.080
8.01.07        94.999
8.02.01        94.040
8.02.02        94.041,
               94.999
9.01.01        131.01
9.01.02        131.02
9.01.03        131.03
9.01.04        131.99
9.02.01        132.15
9.02.02        132.16
9.02.03        132.17
9.02.04        132.18
9.02.05        132.19
9.02.06        133.01
9.02.07        133.02
9.02.08        130.01
9.02.09        130.02
9.02.10        134.01
9.02.12        130.03
9.02.13        130.04
9.02.14        130.05
9.02.15        134.02
9.02.16        134.03
9.02.17        133.03
9.02.18        133.04
9.02.19        133.05
9.02.20        130.06
9.02.21        130.07
9.02.22        130.08
9.02.23        132.01
9.02.24        130.09
9.02.25        132.02
9.02.26        132.03
9.02.27        132.04
               130.99,
9.02.28        132.99,
               133.99,
               134.99
9.03.01        91.01
9.03.02        91.02
9.03.03        91.03
9.03.04        91.04
9.03.05        91.05
9.03.06        91.06
9.03.07        91.07
9.03.08        91.08
9.03.09        91.09
9.03.10        91.10
9.03.11        91.11
9.03.12        91.12
9.03.12.1      91.99
9.03.13        91.13
9.03.14        91.14
9.03.15        91.15
9.03.16        91.16
9.03.17        91.17
9.03.18        91.18
9.03.19        91.19
9.03.20        91.20
9.03.21        91.21
9.03.22        91.22
9.03.23        91.99
9.04.01        130.20
9.04.02        130.21
9.04.03        130.99
9.05.01        93.01
9.05.03        93.99
10.01.01       92.01
10.01.02       92.02
10.01.03       92.03
10.01.04       92.04
10.01.05       92.05
10.01.06       92.06
10.01.07       92.07
10.01.08       92.08
10.01.09       92.09
10.01.10       92.10
10.01.11       92.11
10.01.12       92.12
10.01.13       92.13
10.01.14       92.14
10.01.15       92.15
10.01.16       92.16
10.01.17       92.17,
               92.99
10.01.18       92.18,
               92.99
10.02.01       92.30
10.02.02       92.31
10.02.03       92.32
10.02.04       92.33
10.02.05       92.34
11.01.01       90.01
11.01.02       90.02
11.01.03       90.03
11.02.04       90.15
11.02.05       90.16
11.02.06       90.17
11.02.07       90.18
11.02.08       90.19
11.02.09       90.20
11.02.10       90.21
11.02.11       90.22
11.02.12       90.23
11.02.13       90.24
11.02.14       90.25,
               90.99
11.03.01       90.40
11.03.02       90.41
11.03.03       90.42
11.04.01       90.55
11.04.02       90.56
11.04.03       90.57
11.04.04       90.58
11.04.05       90.99
11.04.06       90.59
12.01.01       150.001
12.01.02       150.002
12.01.03       150.003
12.02.01       150.015
12.03.01       95.01
12.03.02       95.02
12.03.03       95.03
12.03.04       95.04
12.03.05       95.05
12.03.06       95.06
12.03.07       95.07
12.04.01       96.01
12.04.02       96.02
12.04.03       96.03
12.04.04       96.04
12.04.05       96.05
12.04.06       96.06
12.04.07       96.07
12.04.08       96.08
12.04.09       96.09
12.04.10       96.10
12.04.11       96.11
12.04.12       96.12
12.04.13       96.13
12.04.14       96.14
12.04.15       96.15
12.04.16       96.16
12.05.01       95.20,
               95.99
12.05.02       95.21,
               95.99
12.05.03       95.22
12.05.04       95.23
12.05.05       95.24
12.05.06       95.25
12.05.07       95.26
12.05.08       95.99
12.06.01       150.030
12.06.02       150.031
12.06.03       150.032
12.06.03.01    150.032
12.06.03.02    150.032
12.06.03.03    150.032
12.06.03.04    150.032
12.06.03.05    150.999
12.06.04       150.033
12.06.05       150.034
12.06.06       150.035,
               150.999
Ch. 12, Art. 7 150.050
12.07.01       150.051
12.07.02       150.052
12.07.03       150.053
12.07.04       150.999
12.08.01       150.065
12.08.02       150.066
12.08.03       150.067
12.08.04       150.068
12.08.05       150.069
12.08.06       150.070
12.08.07       150.071
12.08.08       150.072
12.08.09       150.073
12.08.10       150.074
12.08.11       150.075
12.08.12       150.076
12.08.13       150.077
12.08.14       150.078
14.01.01       151.001
14.01.02       151.002
14.01.03       151.003
14.01.04       151.004
14.01.05       151.005
14.01.06       151.006
14.02.01       151.020
14.02.02       151.021
14.02.03       151.022
14.02.04       151.023
14.03.01       151.035
14.03.02       151.036
14.03.03       151.037
14.03.04       151.038
14.03.05       151.039
14.03.06       151.040
14.03.07       151.999
14.04.01       151.055
14.04.02       151.056
14.04.03       151.057
14.04.04       151.058
14.04.05       151.059
14.04.06       151.060
14.04.07       151.061
14.04.08       151.062
14.04.09       151.063
14.04.10       151.064
14.04.11       151.065
14.04.12       151.066
14.04.14       151.067
14.04.15       151.068,
               151.069
14.04.16       151.070
14.04.17       151.071
14.04.18       151.072
14.04.19       151.073
14.04.20       151.074,
               151.999
14.04.21       151.075
14.04.22       151.076
14.04.23       151.077,
               151.999
14.04.24       151.078
14.04.25       151.079
14.04.26       151.080
14.04.27       151.081
14.04.28       151.082
14.04.29       151.083
14.04.30       151.084
14.04.31       151.085
14.04.32       151.086
14.04.33       151.087
14.04.34       151.088
14.04.35       151.089
14.04.36       151.090
14.04.37       151.091
14.04.38       151.092
14.04.39       151.093
14.05.01       151.105
14.05.02       151.106
14.05.03       151.107
14.05.04       151.108
14.05.05       151.109
14.06.01       151.120
14.06.02       151.121
14.06.03       151.122
14.06.04       151.123
14.06.05       151.999
14.07.01       152.01
14.07.02       152.02
14.07.03       152.03
14.07.04       152.04
14.07.05       152.05
14.07.06       152.06
14.07.07       152.07
14.07.08       152.08
14.07.09       152.09
14.07.10       152.10
14.07.11       152.11
14.07.12       152.12
14.07.13       152.13
14.07.14       152.14
14.07.15       152.15
14.07.16       152.99
14.08.01       151.135
14.08.02       151.136
14.08.03       151.137
14.08.04       151.138
14.08.05       151.139
14.08.06       151.140
14.08.07       151.141,
               151.999
14.08.08       151.142,
               151.999
15.01.01       153.001
15.01.02       153.002
15.01.03       153.003
15.01.04       153.004
15.01.05       153.005,
               153.999
15.01.06       153.006
15.01.07       153.007
15.01.08       153.008
15.01.09       153.009
Ch. 15, Art. 2 153.020
15.03.01       153.035
15.03.02       153.036
15.03.03       153.037
15.03.04       153.038
15.03.05       153.039
15.03.06       153.040
15.04.01       153.055
15.04.02       153.056
15.04.03       153.057
15.04.04       153.058
15.04.05       153.059
15.04.06       153.060
15.04.07       153.061
15.05.01       153.075
15.05.02       153.076
15.05.03       153.077
15.05.04       153.078
15.05.05       153.079
15.05.06       153.080
15.05.07       153.081
15.05.08       153.082
15.05.09       153.083
15.05.10       153.084
16.01.01       154.001
16.01.02       154.002
16.01.03       154.003
16.01.04       154.004
Ch. 16, Art. 2 154.015,
               154.016
16.03.01       154.030
16.03.02       154.031,
               154.999
16.03.03       154.032
16.03.04       154.033
16.04.01       154.045
16.04.02       154.046
16.04.03       154.047
16.04.04       154.048
16.04.05       154.049
16.04.06       154.050
16.04.07       154.051
16.04.08       154.052
16.05.01       154.065
16.05.02       154.066
16.06.01       154.080
16.06.02       154.081
16.06.03       154.082
16.06.04       154.083
16.06.05       154.084
16.06.06       154.085
16.06.07       154.086
16.06.08       154.087
16.06.09       154.088
16.07.01       154.100
16.07.02       154.101
16.07.03       154.102
16.07.04       154.103
16.07.05       154.104
16.07.06       154.105
16.07.07       154.106
16.07.08       154.107
16.07.09       154.108
16.08.01       154.120
16.08.02       154.121
16.08.03       154.122
16.08.04       154.123
16.08.05       154.124
16.08.06       154.125
16.08.07       154.126
16.08.08       154.127
16.08.09       154.128
16.09.01       154.140
16.09.02       154.141
16.09.03       154.142
16.09.04       154.143
16.09.05       154.144
16.09.06       154.145
16.09.07       154.146
16.09.08       154.147
16.09.09       154.148
16.10.01       154.160
16.10.02       154.161
16.10.03       154.162
16.10.04       154.163
16.10.05       154.164
16.10.06       154.165
16.10.07       154.166
16.10.08       154.167
16.10.09       154.168
16.11.01       154.180
16.11.02       154.181
16.11.03       154.182
16.11.04       154.183
16.11.05       154.184
16.11.06       154.185
16.11.07       154.186
16.11.08       154.187
16.11.09       154.188
16.12.01       154.200
16.12.02       154.201
16.12.03       154.202
16.12.04       154.203
16.12.05       154.204
16.12.06       154.205
16.12.07       154.206
16.12.08       154.207
16.12.09       154.208
16.12.10       154.209
16.13.01       154.220
16.13.02       154.221
16.13.03       154.222
16.13.04       154.223
16.13.05       154.224
16.13.06       154.225
16.13.07       154.226
16.13.08       154.227
16.13.09       154.228
16.14.01       154.240
16.14.02       154.241
16.14.03       154.242
16.14.04       154.243
16.14.05       154.244
16.14.06       154.245
16.14.07       154.246
16.14.08       154.247
16.14.09       154.248
16.15.01       154.260
16.15.02       154.261
16.15.03       154.262
16.15.04       154.263
16.15.05       154.264
16.15.06       154.265
16.15.07       154.266
16.15.08       154.267
16.15.09       154.268
16.16.01       154.280
16.16.02       154.281
16.16.03       154.282
16.16.04       154.283
16.16.05       154.284
16.16.06       154.285
16.16.07       154.286
16.16.08       154.287
16.16.09       154.288
16.16.10       154.289
16.17.01       154.300
16.17.02       154.301
16.17.03       154.302
16.17.04       154.303
16.17.05       154.304
16.17.06       154.305
16.17.07       154.306
16.17.08       154.307
16.17.09       154.308
16.18.01       154.320
16.18.02       154.321
16.18.03       154.322
16.18.04       154.323
16.18.05       154.324
16.18.06       154.325
16.18.07       154.326
16.18.08       154.327
16.18.09       154.328
16.19.01       154.340
16.19.02       154.341
16.19.03       154.342
16.20.01       154.355
16.20.02       154.356
16.20.03       154.357
16.20.04       154.358
16.20.05       154.359
16.20.06       154.360
16.20.07       154.361
16.20.08       154.362
16.21.01       154.375
16.21.02       154.376
16.21.03       154.377
16.21.04       154.378
16.21.06       154.379
16.21.08       154.380
16.21.09       154.381
16.21.10       154.382
16.21.11       154.383
16.21.12       154.384
16.21.13       154.385
16.21.14       154.386
16.21.15       154.387
16.21.16       154.388
16.21.17       154.389
16.21.18       154.390
16.21.19       154.391
16.21.20       154.392
16.21.21       154.393
16.21.22       154.394
16.21.23       154.395
16.22.01       154.410
16.22.02       154.411
16.22.03       154.412
16.23.01       154.425
16.23.02       154.426
16.23.03       154.427
16.23.04       154.428
16.23.05       154.429
16.23.06       154.430
16.23.07       154.431
16.23.08       154.432
16.23.09       154.433
16.23.10       154.434
16.23.11       154.435
16.23.12       154.436
16.23.13       154.437
16.23.14       154.438
16.23.15       154.439
16.23.16       154.440
16.24.01       154.455
16.24.02       154.456
16.24.03       154.457
16.24.04       154.458
16.24.05       154.459
16.24.06       154.460
16.25.01       154.475
16.25.02       154.476
16.25.03       154.477
16.25.04       154.478,
               154.999
16.25.05       154.479
16.26.01       154.490
16.26.02       154.491
16.26.03       154.492
16.26.04       154.493
16.26.05       154.494
16.27.01       154.505
16.27.02       154.506
16.27.03       154.507
16.28.01       154.520
16.28.02       154.521
16.28.03       154.522
16.28.04       154.523
16.28.05       154.524
16.28.06       154.525
16.28.07       154.526,
               154.999
16.28.08       154.527
               
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
13       8-12-1912   33.35—
                     33.41
43       - -         131.99
64       - -         151.999
91       - -         93.01,
                     93.99
126      - -         70.29,
                     70.99
130      - -         151.035,
                     151.999
132      - -         52.06
                     90.01,
                     130.01—
                     130.09,
                     130.20,
                     130.21,
                     130.99,
                     132.01—
133      - -         132.04,
                     132.99,
                     133.03—
                     133.05,
                     133.99,
                     134.01—
                     134.03,
                     134.99
143      - -         151.105—
                     151.109
144      - -         52.10
                     130.20,
155      - -         130.21,
                     130.99,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I
159      - -         55.03
                     92.01,
163      - -         92.03—
                     92.14
                     110.01,
                     110.02,
167      - -         110.05—
                     110.11,
                     110.15—
                     110.17
                     70.29,
177      - -         70.99,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. II
180      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
182      - -         151.020
189      - -         72.09,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. III
190      - -         35.01,
                     35.02
192      - -         53.02
                     131.01,
201      - -         131.03,
                     131.99
202      - -         51.01,
                     51.05
                     151.036—
203      - -         151.039,
                     151.999
211      - -         151.020
214      - -         53.04,
                     53.99
215      - -         151.040,
                     151.999
218      - -         55.03
220      - -         93.01,
                     93.99
225      - -         94.001
                     32.03,
                     52.01,
                     52.02,
226      - -         52.04—
                     52.11,
                     94.057,
                     94.059—
                     94.061
                     70.07,
                     70.12—
231      - -         70.21,
                     70.29,
                     70.99
233      - -         93.01
                     150.032,
                     150.033,
236      - -         150.999,
                     151.105,
                     151.106
237      - -         70.09,
                     72.10
242      - -         151.105
245      - -         94.001—
                     94.008
246      - -         TSO I
253      - -         55.03
254      - -         94.001
                     54.03,
259      - -         54.04,
                     54.06—
                     54.08
261      - -         54.07,
                     54.08
265      - -         72.10
271      - -         113.01—
                     113.07
280      - -         70.05,
                     114.01
                     112.01—
281      - -         112.08,
                     112.99
283      - -         51.03,
                     51.04
296      - -         33.01—
                     33.04
297      - -         94.001
                     70.07,
                     70.12—
299      - -         70.21,
                     71.01,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                     90.55—
302      - -         90.59,
                     90.99
309      - -         72.09
310      - -         94.022,
                     94.023
315      - -         70.29,
                     70.99
                     110.22,
316      - -         110.23,
                     110.99
317      - -         35.01,
                     35.02
324      - -         90.40—
                     90.42
                     72.09,
333      - -         94.023,
                     94.024,
                     94.999
336      - -         30.01
                     90.15—
367      - -         90.19,
                     90.21—
                     90.24
                     60.01—
                     60.14,
369      - -         60.16—
                     60.26,
                     60.99
                     70.04,
375      - -         70.29,
                     70.99
389      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. II
390      - -         TSO I
397      - -         71.02,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                     30.01,
400      - -         33.01—
                     33.22,
                     33.99
404      - -         55.03
411      - -         110.04
412      - -         110.03,
                     110.04
414      - -         50.03
                     74.01—
418      - -         74.04,
                     74.99
425      - -         30.01
429      - -         30.01
430      - -         131.01,
                     131.03
434      - -         TSO I
                     32.03,
                     150.052,
438      - -         150.999,
                     151.055—
                     151.093,
                     151.999
440      - -         30.15—
                     30.18
442      - -         51.02
443      - -         71.02,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. II
451      - -         110.04,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. III
452      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
453      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. III
                     71.02,
454      - -         72.09,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. V,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
456      - -         110.12
459      - -         110.18,
                     110.20
461      - -         110.21
466      - -         52.02
                     90.01—
                     90.03,
                     130.01—
                     130.09,
                     130.99,
                     132.01—
468      - -         132.04,
                     132.99,
                     133.01—
                     133.05,
                     133.99,
                     134.01—
                     134.03,
                     134.99
                     70.01—
                     70.03,
                     70.06—
                     70.08,
                     70.10,
                     70.11,
                     70.13,
                     70.14,
                     70.16,
469      - -         70.17,
                     70.23—
                     70.29,
                     70.99,
                     72.01—
                     72.03,
                     72.05—
                     72.08,
                     73.01,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. II
                     C
475      - -         h. 75, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. IV
476      - -         TSO I
                     70.05,
                     94.064,
478      - -         114.01—
                     114.03,
                     114.99
482      - -         30.01
487      - -         55.03,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. II
489      - -         53.02
491      - -         110.03,
                     110.04
493      - -         110.22
496      - -         55.03
497      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. II
                     95.01,
499      - -         95.03—
                     95.07,
                     150.003
                     70.22,
500      - -         70.29,
                     70.99
501      - -         90.18
                     36.031—
505      - -         36.035,
                     36.999
507      - -         30.01
513      - -         74.05
                     94.040,
                     94.041,
517      - -         94.075—
                     94.080,
                     94.999
                     94.020,
518      - -         94.021,
                     94.023,
                     94.026
                     131.01,
520      - -         131.03,
                     131.99
521      - -         72.03,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I
526      - -         94.023,
                     94.026
532      - -         55.01,
                     55.03
533      - -         92.30—
                     92.32
541      - -         36.001—
                     36.004
542      - -         94.999
547      - -         130.04
549      - -         55.03
550      - -         50.02—
                     50.04
553      - -         52.06
558      - -         55.03
560      - -         36.015,
                     36.016
561      - -         55.01,
                     55.03
563      - -         55.03
                     53.01—
564      - -         53.09,
                     53.99
565      - -         55.03
                     130.99,
                     132.15—
566      - -         132.19,
                     132.99,
                     133.99,
                     134.99
568      - -         92.15,
                     92.16
570      - -         94.024,
                     94.999
572      - -         TSO I
573      - -         94.024,
                     94.999
574      - -         72.03,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I
                     151.120—
576      - -         151.123,
                     151.999
                     130.99,
                     132.15—
578      - -         132.19,
                     132.99,
                     133.99,
                     134.99
                     150.030,
579      - -         150.031,
                     150.034
                     32.04,
580      - -         152.01—
                     152.15,
                     152.99
582      - -         72.09
                     36.030—
584      - -         36.035,
                     36.999
590      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                     111.01—
591      - -         111.17,
                     111.99
592      - -         52.05
597      - -         110.22
598      - -         110.18
                     150.052,
                     150.999,
600      - -         151.055—
                     151.093,
                     151.999
601      - -         73.02
602      - -         73.03
604      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. IV
614      - -         150.031
617      - -         111.12
                     131.01,
618      - -         131.03,
                     131.99
620      - -         94.021,
                     94.022
621      - -         134.03
625      - -         134.03
629      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
630      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
631      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
632      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
634      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. V
637      - -         30.01
638      - -         110.13
641      - -         110.13
644      - -         55.04
654      - -         92.33,
                     92.34
656      - -         110.19
                     131.01—
657      - -         131.03,
                     131.99
660      - -         72.04
667      - -         30.01
668      - -         130.07
669      - -         55.03
670      - -         50.06
673      - -         92.02
677      - -         52.03,
                     52.99
                     95.01,
680      - -         95.03—
                     95.07,
                     150.003
681      - -         150.030
683      - -         94.009,
                     94.999
688      - -         110.14,
                     110.99
690      - -         TSO I
                     150.030,
692      - -         150.031,
                     150.034
694      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. III
696      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. IV
697      - -         54.05
698      - -         110.03,
                     110.04
700      - -         30.01
705      - -         55.03
706      - -         54.09
708      - -         55.01,
                     55.03
709      - -         90.15—
                     90.24
715      - -         111.04,
                     111.99
716      - -         55.03
718      - -         150.015
721      - -         55.03
722      - -         52.06
723      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                     54.01,
724      - -         54.02,
                     54.08
725      - -         151.006
727      - -         92.05—
                     92.14
                     11.01,
                     30.15—
                     30.18,
                     32.01,
                     32.03—
                     32.05,
                     33.01—
                     33.22,
                     33.99,
                     35.01,
                     35.02,
                     36.001—
                     36.004,
                     36.015,
                     36.016,
                     36.030—
                     36.035,
                     36.999,
                     50.02—
                     50.04,
                     50.06,
                     52.01—
                     52.11,
                     52.99,
                     53.01—
                     53.10,
                     53.99,
                     55.01—
                     55.04,
                     60.01—
                     60.14,
                     60.16—
                     60.26,
                     60.99,
                     70.01—
                     70.29,
                     70.99,
                     71.01,
                     71.02,
                     72.01—
                     72.10,
                     73.01—
                     73.03,
                     74.01—
                     74.05,
                     74.99,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. II,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. IV,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. V,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. VI,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. II,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. III,
                     90.01—
                     90.03,
                     90.15—
                     90.25,
                     90.40—
                     90.42,
                     90.55—
                     90.59,
                     90.99,
                     91.01—
                     91.22,
                     91.99,
                     92.01—
                     92.16,
                     92.30—
                     92.34,
731      - -         94.001—
                     94.009,
                     94.020—
                     94.024,
                     94.026,
                     94.040,
                     94.041,
                     94.057,
                     94.059—
                     94.061,
                     94.064,
                     94.075—
                     94.080,
                     94.999,
                     95.01,
                     95.03—
                     95.07,
                     110.01—
                     110.23,
                     110.99,
                     111.01—
                     111.17,
                     111.99,
                     112.01—
                     112.08,
                     112.99,
                     113.01—
                     113.07,
                     114.01—
                     114.03,
                     114.99,
                     130.01—
                     130.09,
                     130.20,
                     130.21,
                     130.99,
                     131.01—
                     131.03,
                     131.99,
                     132.01—
                     132.04,
                     132.15—
                     132.19,
                     132.99,
                     133.01—
                     133.05,
                     133.99,
                     134.01—
                     134.03,
                     134.99,
                     150.003,
                     150.030—
                     150.034,
                     150.052,
                     150.999,
                     151.001—
                     151.003,
                     151.005,
                     151.006,
                     151.020,
                     151.035—
                     151.040,
                     151.055—
                     151.093,
                     151.105—
                     151.109,
                     151.120—
                     151.123,
                     151.999,
                     152.01—
                     152.15,
                     152.99,
                     TSO I
                     50.02—
735      - -         50.04,
                     50.06
                     31.01,
736      - -         31.02,
                     35.01,
                     35.02
                     31.03,
                     32.08,
                     33.01—
                     33.04,
                     150.053,
                     151.020,
                     151.022,
                     151.023,
                     154.001—
                     154.004,
                     154.015,
                     154.016,
                     154.030—
                     154.033,
                     154.045—
                     154.052,
                     154.065,
                     154.066,
                     154.080—
                     154.088,
                     154.100—
                     154.108,
                     154.120—
                     154.128,
                     154.160—
                     154.168,
                     154.184,
737      - -         154.200—
                     154.209,
                     154.240—
                     154.248,
                     154.260—
                     154.268,
                     154.320—
                     154.328,
                     154.340—
                     154.342,
                     154.355—
                     154.362,
                     154.375—
                     154.394,
                     154.410—
                     154.412,
                     154.425—
                     154.440,
                     154.455—
                     154.460,
                     154.475—
                     154.494,
                     154.505—
                     154.507,
                     154.520—
                     154.527,
                     154.999,
                     Ch. 154, App. A
739      - -         55.01,
                     55.03
                     91.01—
740      - -         91.22,
                     91.99
                     151.001—
741      - -         151.003,
                     151.005
746      - -         110.14,
                     110.99
                     11.01,
747      - -         112.01—
                     112.08,
                     112.99
                     153.001—
                     153.009,
                     153.020,
                     153.035—
748      - -         153.040,
                     153.055—
                     153.061,
                     153.075—
                     153.083,
                     153.999
                     36.030—
749      - -         36.035,
                     36.999
                     94.075—
750      - -         94.080,
                     94.999
                     36.030—
751      - -         36.035,
                     36.999
755      - -         36.015,
                     36.016
757      - -         70.06
758      - -         35.02
                     36.030—
760      - -         36.035,
                     36.999
762      - -         53.09
763      - -         32.01
768      - -         55.03
                     36.050—
771      - -         36.054,
                     36.999
772      - -         36.065—
                     36.073
773      - -         30.01
                     115.01—
775      - -         115.08,
                     115.99
777      - -         92.32
778      - -         52.07
                     36.050—
780      - -         36.054,
                     36.999
                     154.016,
783      - -         154.103,
                     154.123,
                     154.163
785      - -         52.05
791      - -         94.999,
                     110.99
                     95.01—
                     95.07,
                     95.20—
                     95.26,
                     95.99,
                     96.01—
792      - -         96.16,
                     150.002,
                     150.003,
                     150.015,
                     150.030,
                     150.031,
                     150.034
                     50.01,
                     50.04,
                     51.01,
                     51.02,
                     51.04,
                     51.05,
796      - -         52.02,
                     52.04—
                     52.06,
                     52.09,
                     54.01—
                     54.09,
                     55.03,
                     60.02
797      - -         33.35—
                     33.41
                     94.055—
                     94.057,
798      - -         94.059—
                     94.063,
                     94.999,
                     114.01
                     31.03,
                     32.08,
                     33.01—
                     33.22,
                     33.99,
                     150.053,
                     151.020—
                     151.023,
                     154.001—
                     154.004,
                     154.015,
                     154.016,
                     154.030—
                     154.033,
                     154.045—
                     154.052,
                     154.065,
                     154.066,
                     154.080—
                     154.088,
                     154.100—
                     154.108,
                     154.120—
                     154.128,
                     154.140—
                     154.148,
                     154.160—
                     154.168,
                     154.180—
                     154.188,
                     154.200—
800      - -         154.209,
                     154.220—
                     154.228,
                     154.240—
                     154.248,
                     154.260—
                     154.268,
                     154.280—
                     154.289,
                     154.300—
                     154.308,
                     154.320—
                     154.328,
                     154.340—
                     154.342,
                     154.355—
                     154.362,
                     154.375—
                     154.394,
                     154.410—
                     154.412,
                     154.425—
                     154.440,
                     154.455—
                     154.460,
                     154.475—
                     154.494,
                     154.505—
                     154.507,
                     154.520—
                     154.527,
                     154.999,
                     Ch. 154, App. A
804      - -         53.09
807      - -         134.02,
                     134.03
810      - -         35.01
                     94.020—
811      - -         94.024,
                     94.026,
                     94.999
818      - -         52.05,
                     52.07
819      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
822      - -         50.01
823      - -         150.034
824      - -         154.016
825      - -         55.01—
                     55.04
827      - -         72.09
828      - -         154.289
830      3-18-2013   31.04
831      - -         54.08,
                     54.09
834      - -         50.05
835      - -         50.04
836      - -         50.01
841      5-30-2014   51.05—
                     51.08
842      5-30-2014   150.032,
                     150.999
843      - -         94.021
844      - -         55.02
846      - -         150.034
847      - -         50.04
848      - -         150.035,
                     150.999
850      - -         50.01
851      - -         50.01
852      - -         90.25,
                     90.99
853      - -         60.15,
                     60.99
854      - -         92.18,
                     92.99
856      - -         55.03
858      - -         154.016
860      - -         30.17,
                     30.18
861      - -         153.079
862      - -         32.01
863      - -         10.99
864      - -         52.11
865      - -         110.22
866      - -         32.03
867      - -         50.01
870      - -         96.09
872      - -         154.437
873      - -         151.001—
                     151.006
875      - -         52.06
876      - -         50.04
877      - -         150.051,
                     150.053
878      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                     154.107,
                     154.127,
879      - -         154.147,
                     154.167,
                     154.187,
                     154.207
880      - -         50.01
881      - -         92.02
886      12-18-2017  50.01
887      - -         110.12
889      - -         92.12
890      - -         154.383
891      - -         151.001—
                     151.006
892      - -         150.001—
                     150.003
                     151.135—
893      - -         151.142,
                     151.999
894      - -         154.388
895      - -         154.395
896      - -         91.99
901      6-4-2018    54.08,
                     54.09
911      9-4-2018    151.155—
                     151.170
912      11-19-2018  151.055—
                     151.093
917      2-4-2019    Ch. 75, Sch. I
918      2-4-2019    Ch. 76, Sch. II
919      2-4-2019    110.03
920      2-4-2019    52.06
921      3-4-2019    51.09
922      3-18-2019   32.02
923      4-1-2019    30.02
924      4-15-2019   34.01—
                     34.11
925      4-15-2019   74.03
927      5-6-2019    150.065—
                     150.078
928      5-20-2019   Ch. 75, Sch. III
929      6-17-2019   54.03
                     70.45,
930      8-5-2019    70.46,
                     70.99
931      8-5-2019    35.04
932      9-3-2019    154.243
                     110.04,
933      9-3-2019    110.12,
                     110.18—
                     110.20
937      11-4-2019   32.01—
                     32.03
                     50.04,
941      12-16-2019  50.05,
                     50.07
942      12-30-2019  50.08
945      3-16-2020   31.20—
                     31.36
946      3-25-2020   97.01
947      5-4-2020    90.18
                     110.02—
                     110.04,
952      5-18-2020   110.13,
                     110.14,
                     110.22
953      6-1-2020    97.01
956      7-6-2020    113.06
957      7-6-2020    71.02
958      7-6-2020    97.02
961      8-17-2020   95.03
962      9-8-2020    50.01
963      9-21-2020   91.23,
                     91.24
964      9-21-2020   54.08
966      10-5-2020   150.090—
                     150.105
968      10-5-2020   72.03
969      10-5-2020   Ch. 75, Sch. I
970      10-5-2020   90.25
971      10-19-2020  90.02
972      10-19-2020  Adopting Ordinance
977      12-21-2020  52.04
978      12-30-2020  51.10
979      12-30-2020  97.01
980      1-4-2021    150.103
                     91.02,
981      1-4-2021    91.12,
                     91.15—
                     91.18
                     95.02,
982      1-4-2021    95.04—
                     95.06
983      1-4-2021    150.015
984      1-4-2021    150.031
985      1-4-2021    150.034
986      1-4-2021    154.437
987      1-4-2021    154.999
988      1-4-2021    150.073
994      2-15-2021   110.13,
                     110.14
996      4-19-2021   53.09
997      4-19-2021   151.001—
                     151.006
998      5-3-2021    154.376
999      - -         72.11
1001     6-7-2021    54.10,
                     54.11
1002     6-7-2021    55.03
1004     6-21-2021   150.031,
                     150.034
1005     7-6-2021    54.12
1009     9-20-2021   30.02
1012     10-4-2021   54.08
                     117.01—
1013     11-1-2021   117.15,
                     117.99
                     154.016,
                     154.053,
1014     11-1-2021   154.261,
                     154.281,
                     154.396
1015     11-15-2021  53.11
1016     12-6-2021   35.01,
                     35.03
1017     12-6-2021   110.24
1020     2-22-2022   154.437
1021     3-7-2022    97.02
1022     3-7-2022    150.031
1023     3-21-2022   72.12
                     54.05,
1024     4-4-2022    54.06,
                     54.08,
                     54.12
1025     4-18-2022   31.36
1026     4-18-2022   50.01—
                     50.08
1027     5-2-2022    94.024—
                     94.026
1028     5-2-2022    151.004
1029     5-2-2022    53.09
1033     8-1-2022    95.04,
                     95.05
1037     8-15-2022   50.08
1038     9-6-2022    50.01
1039     9-6-2022    72.02,
                     72.04
1042     10-17-2022  90.17
1045     12-5-2022   36.100
1049     5-1-2023    30.02
1050     5-15-2023   54.01—
                     54.12
1051     6-19-2023   54.06
1052     6-5-2023    Ch. 75, Sch. I
1053     6-19-2023   92.18
1054     6-19-2023   55.02
                     116.01—
1054     7-3-2023    116.12,
                     116.99
1055     7-3-2023    70.06
                     153.077,
                     153.080—
1056     8-7-2023    153.082,
                     153.084,
                     153.999
1057     8-7-2023    55.01—
                     55.06
                     154.081,
                     154.083,
                     154.101,
                     154.103,
1058     8-7-2023    154.121,
                     154.123,
                     154.161,
                     154.164,
                     154.383
1061     10-2-2023   150.033
1062     10-2-2023   33.02
1063     10-2-2023   Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                     94.009
1064     10-16-2023  50.01
                     71.01,
1065     10-16-2023  Ch. 75, Schs. IV,
                     V,
                     VI
1066     11-6-2023   70.01
1068     12-4-2023   53.06
1070     2-5-2024    154.379
1072     4-1-2024    30.04
1073     4-1-2024    151.007
1074     4-15-2024   55.05
1075     5-6-2024    30.03
1076     5-20-2024   72.01
1076     5-20-2024   72.01
1086     10-21-2024  30.02
                    
 
